ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u1	The Minister is in good company today. She is accompanied by Mr Gino Claes, strategic advisor to the FPS Public Health, Dr Paul Pardon, Chief Medical Officer of the FPS Public Health, Dr Bert Winnen, Head of Public Health and Tom Auwers, Chairman of the Management Committee of the FPS Public Health. As you have seen on the agenda, we are starting a topical debate on the coronavirus. A second topical debate on the KCE study on matrimony will follow and the remainder of the oral questions will follow. Let me give you the rules for the topical debate. Unlike the other questions, each group has the right to take the floor, but I shall, of course, start with those who have tabled questions. It is not intended that if someone from one group has already asked a question, another member of that group will take the floor. Those are the rules of the game. Four questions on coronavirus were introduced. The first is Question No 55002741C by Mrs Tillieux, who is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u2	Mr President, I will speak for the Socialist Group on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u3	I would therefore ask you to put the question instead of Mrs Tillieux. This is not a habit, but as it is a topical debate, go ahead!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, a new type of coronavirus appeared in China a few weeks ago. On 27 January 2020, a total of 2,700 cases were confirmed, including 80 victims. The SARS virus (severe acute respiratory syndrome) has affected about 13 countries, which highlights its spread, and there are likely to be new cases due to the incubation period. It should be noted that the SPF Foreign Affairs has decided to repatriate the Belgians and their families in the Wuhan region. The symptoms of this infection are similar to cases of influenza, which can obviously and unfortunately delay diagnosis. In the most serious cases, infection can cause pneumonia, severe acute respiratory syndrome, kidney failure and even death. In addition, the Chinese authorities have confirmed cases of human-to-human contamination. This morning in the press, we learned – which is somewhat complementary to the question that was previously tabled – that Belgium, in comparison with France, England or Germany, to name but a few European countries, is less exposed. Nevertheless, there are two cases in France, one alleged in Germany. It may therefore be appropriate to comment on the figures we have received and to give an explanation beyond the fact that we do not have a direct airline. Minister, in 2018, 338 000 Belgian travellers travelled to Asia for a stay of four nights or more. Are there any identified risks when travelling to Asia? Or is it only limited to the Hubei region? Have any specific measures already been taken in this context in Belgium? If an unknown virus such as this spreads in Belgium, what measures are envisaged to stem a possible epidemic? Are we ready to respond to contamination in Belgium? To date, what actions have WHO recommended in this framework? Finally, I read in the press this morning that KUL, in particular, was looking for a vaccine. Do you have anything to do with this vaccine? Are there any serious leads?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u5	Madam Secretary, the international impact of the new type of coronavirus, originating in Hubei Province in the city of Wuhan, is becoming more and more evident and growing, following infections in the United States, Thailand, South Korea, Japan, France and now also in Germany. In Germany, it's someone who hasn't been to China himself, but came into contact with someone who's been in China. The international impact is also demonstrated by the fact that the WHO is investigating whether it is an international health crisis in the context of the public health emergency or international concern. By the way, the WHO upgraded the risk last week. In the meantime, China itself has already taken drastic measures in view of the Chinese New Year and the great migrations that this brings about. The most important thing, of course, is the risks here with us. Fever checks are already being carried out in some airports. You said that this is not necessary for Belgium for travellers coming from China or from countries that are directly connected to China. I would like to accept what the experts say, especially that excessive panic is not necessary. We must, of course, be vigilant. We have, hopefully, learned from the experience with the SARS virus in 2003, but we must guard against underrated perception in the population. Madam Secretary, how do you assess the daily risk to Belgium, given that some infected patients did not have direct contact with China? What measures are you taking? I have established that information is already provided on the websites of the FOD and Sciensano and that you have given guidelines to some healthcare providers. How are European clinical networks currently involved with our labs in the detection and treatment of the new epidemic? Is the network better armed than 17 years ago or at the MERS epidemic of nearly ten years ago?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u6	Madam Minister, I will not go into all the details here, since my colleagues have already done so, but I would like to highlight a few more points. The cases we are already facing in Europe once again show that a virus does not stop at the borders of a city, country or continent. As with the SARS virus, which stayed in the pot for months, we notice again that China prefers to keep the pot covered. As we can expect from communist systems, we obviously do not want outside interference. Fortunately, it is now becoming clear that the epidemic cannot be dealt with on its own. Such an attitude naturally facilitates the spread of the virus. Apparently, it wasn't necessary to cancel a New Year banquet with as many as 40,000 people present in Wuhan at the moment the virus was already in full swing. That is why the question arises as to whether we are getting the real figures from China. Or should we seriously underestimate that? According to the press, Belgium has plans to combat the virus. Apparently, we have solid plans, and I'd like to know which ones are right. Measures are already being taken at airports. How are they sufficient? Is the body temperature measured, for example, for passengers coming from the infected areas? Is there any way to quarantine people with elevated body temperature? After some research I think I understand that this is already the seventh variant of the coronavirus. Does it mean that the virus adapts and becomes resistant to the treatments? What are we supposed to do with that? What, by the way, is the treatment? Since it's a virus, antibiotics won't help. How dangerous are we to estimate the virus for us here in Belgium? What have we learned from the previous coronaviruses on dispersal and treatment? The media showed that the virus would be spread through markets with live exotic animals. Will Belgium, possibly through the EU or the UN, exert pressure on China to ban those markets with live exotic animals intended for consumption?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u7	Madam Minister, I will try to confine myself to the questions that have not yet been asked. There are about 15 Belgians in Wuhan, who could be repatriated on a voluntary basis. There would be consultation with other countries to see if repatriation could be organized jointly. In France, people who were on the flight in question want to be isolated for two weeks. When they asked Minister Goffin for VTM News whether our country is planning such a seclusion, he did not immediately answer. He referred to you for that, Madam Secretary. It was like there hadn't been a meeting. Was there a meeting or not? What conclusions were drawn from this? In the United Kingdom, too, there is talk of 14 days of isolation on the return of a flight. There is also a search for persons who have spent the past 14 days in the infected area of China. Is such a search planned in Belgium? On the one hand, we do not need to panic, because we have competent specialists and we need to have confidence in the bodies that follow the issue. On the other hand, we must be prepared for contamination here. In Germany there was a recent report of an infection. It was someone who was infected without being in China himself. More than that, the infection was transmitted by someone who didn't show any symptoms himself. The symptoms were only expressed in China, after which the diagnosis could be made. Since there are apparently infections possible without symptoms, does that change the procedure of approach for us? In Germany, a hotline was set up where people can ask questions about the virus and infections. Is that planned for us, too? In the United States there would be a rush on mouth masks. Do we take that into account? Are provision made, for example, by setting up a stock of mouth masks? What is the advice regarding wearing mouth masks? In the Netherlands quarantine spots are mapped. So one is looking at where people can be put into isolation. Do we also have possible quarantine sites in Belgium? Will we map them, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u8	Mrs Gijbels, you completed your questions just within the speaking time. I would remind Members that we now have chronometers, just like in plenary. The time display is on a screen that you can view from in the conference room. The Minister and the Chairman have an insight into the time span. The speaking time for oral questions is normally two minutes. I will not monitor this as closely as I do in plenary, but it is an indication of your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u9	Madam Minister, you have already been questioned on this issue of coronavirus last Thursday in plenary session, except that we were still waiting for the WHO's conclusions. In the meantime, the latter has returned them. It initially concluded that there was a moderate threat at the international level and then corrected itself and concluded that there was a high threat. However, the WHO is still refusing to declare an international state of emergency. Nevertheless, in the meantime, the virus continues to spread to our borders. In France, three people were infected in Paris and Bordeaux. Those persons who had stayed in China were placed in solitary confinement and are said to be out of danger. Another suspicious case appeared in Berlin. You said that, logically, there is no reason why Belgium should be spared by the virus. You have therefore announced that you have put in place several measures, protocols in case of suspicion, have informed all doctors and hospitals of the procedures to be followed and have taken all the precautionary measures. On the other hand, you still refused to take additional measures such as quarantine of suspicious cases. However, researchers based in Hong Kong have felt that governments must take drastic measures to restrict population movements if they are to stem the spread of the virus. Similarly, you said on Thursday, again in plenary, that depending on the situation and if a possible expansion of the epidemic is to be observed, recommendations will be made in consultation with the health services of the Regions and Communities and that these recommendations will be communicated to front-line doctors, hospitals and authorities in charge of ports and airports, not to mention our diplomatic services. This leads me, Madam Minister, to ask you whether health professionals have been informed of the hygiene precautions to be taken, but also of the behaviour to be taken in the face of a suspect patient. In France, city physicians who could take care of such a case should contact a referent infectious agent and/or UAS for clinical analysis and case classification. Do you have any idea of the profile of dead people in China? Are they people with particularly low immunity? If so, do the information measures for health professionals and patients take this into account? I would also like to look back on the question that has been addressed to you by my colleague, because it is essential. Is there any consultation with your colleagues, Ministers of Mobility and Foreign Affairs, on repatriation and travel advice? I note that information is available on the FPS Foreign Affairs website, but what about terminals, for example, at our national airport? Is an evacuation of our nationals, as France and the United States have decided, planned? If not, from what critical threshold would these evacuations take place? If so, how? Finally, can you confirm to me that you can be contagious during the incubation phase, in other words, without showing any symptoms? If so, how does this impact the measures you have taken or intend to implement?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u10	Mr President, Madam Minister, I do not want to surf on fear, but rather with a need to get the right information, but I would like to ask you a few specific questions focusing on four levels: screening and diagnosis, traditional and intensive care and reception capacities, research for vaccination and information to the public. As far as the diagnosis is concerned, could you please clarify the information that the authorities of our country have received? On what basis are our general practitioners able to suspect a case of coronavirus? How does the operational chain relate to St. Peter's Hospital and other hospitals? Are there referent general practitioners or specialists designated as referents for coronavirus? Do you confirm that people who died after contracting coronavirus are only elderly, immunocompromised or suffering from pre-existing health problems? It seems to me that the mortality rate resulting from coronavirus is currently estimated at 3%. Can you confirm this information? How are the hospital and intensive care facilities in our country estimated? How many of the most exposed people in Belgium are estimated? In addition, it appears that Leuven Hospital is working on making a vaccine. Is this information accurate? At this level, how does the scientific community work? Is this work coordinated at European or WHO level in order to concentrate the resources, research and progress of the latter? Considering that in a short period of time, influenza will probably return a great deal, is specific management planned this year, given the coronavirus? In operational terms and in terms of information, in order to reassure to a fair extent, is there an additional information channel set up for the population outside the usual media outlets? In this regard, how does your department manage the situation with the Department of Foreign Affairs? Are specific health measures envisaged for persons arriving in Belgium and coming from China? Do we know, for example, how many people have come to Belgium from the Chinese region, which is the epicentre of the coronavirus, since 16 December? Finally, do the governors have a role to play in the transmission of information, in order to accompany the front-line public services as effectively as possible to the population of the communes?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u11	Madam Secretary, I have four questions. I hope that three of them will prove redundant in a month's time. However, if several people were also infected with the coronavirus in Belgium, what impact will the reduction in hospital beds have on this? There have been similar cases in the past, but now we have fewer hospital beds. We can see that hospitals are being built in China. I assume this will not be necessary here, but are we prepared for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u12	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u13	I just want to ask you if the reduced number of hospital beds can or can't get us into trouble. On Saturday there was a report in Brussels of a possible contamination in Belgium. We know how the press works. The press is more aware of these matters than the hospitals themselves. We are confident that your communication will reach the hospitals very well, but how does the crisis communication between the hospitals take place at such a time? Is that what you're doing? I'm assuming you want the hospitals ready in case anything happens. Is there a kind of checklist or control so that you are sure that the hospitals are ready to cope with a possible epidemic in Belgium? Are we in Belgium, in the long term, in need of the recognition of infectiologists or specialists in infectious diseases? If my information is correct, Belgium and Albania would be the only countries that have not yet recognized this speciality. It is certainly not a matter of time now, but in another context, namely the possible resistance to certain antibiotics, it seems to me appropriate to recognise this speciality in Belgium in the future. However, that is a long-term question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u14	Madam Secretary, it is now certain that the corona virus can be transmitted from man to man. If we compare the virus to the flu, we can say that it is more contagious and deadly. If we compare it to the SARS virus, which ruled in China and surroundings a few years ago, it is less lethal, but more contagious. Given the evolution of the last few days, there is a growing likelihood of an epidemic in Europe. The first case has now been confirmed and in China itself we can also see that you will be able to confirm whether my information is correct. The virus is circulating and is mainly present outside Wuhan, in places where people have gone on public transport from Wuhan. The difference with the Mexican flu epidemic that we experienced a few years ago is that there is no vaccine or treatment. We can only treat the symptoms and the complications. There is research on a vaccine, but we also know that it will probably be too late because the infection is spreading rapidly, in China anyway. You have ensured that the doctors and hospitals have received initial information. As a general practitioner, I can confirm that yesterday I received two pages of information in my eHealthBox, for which I thank you. After all, as a general practitioner, a lot of people are directly addressed when something like this happens and so we can give a start of information. The question is whether we in Belgium are prepared for a possible epidemic? A lot of questions have already been asked, but I will briefly ask my questions, Madam Secretary. In the event of an epidemic, we must ensure that there is as little human to human transmission as possible, and therefore it is important to have a mask stock. Do we have that strategic stock in Belgium today? Are we prepared for that? What is the attitude towards our compatriots residing in China? Are you setting up a national coordination and crisis team, as it existed at the time of the H1N1 epidemic? After all, once the epidemic is there, it is important to be able to react very quickly and decisively. I assume you're preparing for this. Are the hospitals prepared for any epidemic? Are the companies prepared, because we have seen in China that there are economic consequences in the event of a possible epidemic?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u15	Mr President, Minister, we have heard that crucial recommendations have been spread among doctors. The questions I put to you, however, come mainly from the so-called village street, i.e. from the citizens. The doctors and hospitals have been informed that in the first phase isolation of the patient is the most important. How can we inform all Belgian patients that they should not go to the GP, but stay at home to conduct further research so that they do not become infected in the waiting room? Is there going to be an information campaign to inform the public about this? If so, have procedures already started? When will this campaign be launched? We are also on the eve of a new flu surge. The symptoms of contagion with the corona virus are very similar. How can we ensure that no panic breaks loose in our country? How do we avoid people starting to think they've contracted the corona virus? Can the patients themselves make a distinction between the common flu and an infection with the corona virus? How should general practitioners deal with that? In this Committee on Health, I have heard that doctors have already received information through the eHealthBox, but how can we ensure that this information reaches all Belgian citizens so that there is no panic throughout our country? Older people are particularly vulnerable to corona virus infection. The procedures for the identification and handling of the virus have been sent to the hospitals. Has there been any information delivered to the residential care centers? Is there any connection with the Communities in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all your questions. I appreciate your wish that there should be no panic among the population, even though some of you have been using heavily loaded language such as "panic" and even "killing." First, I'm discussing the symptoms of contagion with the corona virus. Indeed, it is a respiratory symptomatology, very similar to a respiratory infection and a common flu. The fact that we are expecting another flu surge is a coincidence of circumstances. We have therefore rightly advised not to sit in a waiting room or go to the emergency room, but to ask a doctor to come home. He can auscult, hear the difference, determine how sick you are, how your hydration condition is and if you still have enough oxygen. In the event of suspicion, we have, as Mrs Merckx has pointed out, sent guidelines to the doctors, which even contain the contact numbers per province. There is indeed cooperation with the Communities. There's also a number that can be called outside of office hours. If one does not know what to do properly, one can inform oneself via those numbers. We also have the possibility to do tests in our laboratories to see if there is indeed a coronavirus in play. We have our reference laboratory in Leuven at the KUL. If necessary, the patient is naturally isolated in the Saint Peter's Hospital or moved from another hospital to the Saint Peter's Hospital and examined there. So far, a few patients have come in, but the test was negative once and for all. I read that this was also the case in England. Only in France there are three positive cases and in Germany there is one positive case. For the rest, there is nothing in Europe. Austria has been mentioned, but that would also have been a negative or unconfirmed case. It has been stated here that the parties concerned are not placed in isolation. However, they are indeed taken care of in the St. Peter's Hospital, which is a reference hospital for infectious, highly contagious diseases. In that hospital there is the possibility to keep the patients in isolation until the results of the blood test are there. If the blood test is positive, it needs to be confirmed again. A second sample will then be examined. That'll take another couple of hours. The patient is still being kept in hospital and treated symptomatically with all necessary precautions. Mr. Prévot, you asked if it was possible to have a vaccine. Research is under way, particularly in Leuven, but it will not be available for this epidemic. It takes a little longer than a few days to develop a vaccine. This is a recently detected new type of coronavirus, so it needs to be developed tailor-made. We must not create false hopes as if we could vaccinate people during this epidemic of the virus. The symptoms are as with all conditions. That could be from a cough or a cough to breathing difficulties. Older people and people with comorbidity, as shown by a number of cases in China, are naturally more susceptible and more affected. They're probably the ones most at risk. The origin of this variant of the coronavirus is source for further research in China itself. It is known that it is mutated and can infect people, but one does not know which animal it comes from. They know it's zoonoses, but they don't know the source yet. You know that many live animals are sold there on the market. The markets are closed for the time being and let us hope that this will dry out. Our health authorities are very vigilant and follow the situation in China closely. There is also an assessment of the potential risks in our country. We have already taken a number of measures. Mr Bertels, there is a European network for rare diseases, but not for infectious diseases. However, there are contacts with the other countries, through the Health Security Committee meeting, in which all Member States are represented and discuss their actions. The Chairman of the Public Health Office shall be a permanent member of the Health Security Committee. If I'm right, there was a meeting yesterday. There's contact between them. If necessary, a connection is possible. There is also the ECDC risk assessment, which provides the necessary guidelines in Europe. It is a good thing that we are working together. Mrs. Sneppe, you're asking if the Chinese are communicating transparently enough. However, I must say that there is a great difference in communication now compared to the SARS epidemic. Are the numbers accurate? Is there a difference of 2,3, 4 or 10? We don't know that, but they work very transparently. They've also taken draconian measures. There are 60 million people in quarantine. They don't even let cars drive. One can only drive with a special permit. Trains, schools, everything's closed. They're almost haunted cities right now. After all, they quickly shared the scientific information about the virus with us, so that we could see in our labs if we were able to detect that virus. That turned out to be the case. Last time, all that was more difficult. With regard to the figures, they only give the confirmed cases. That is what the other countries are doing. There is a list of countries outside Europe indicating the number of confirmed cases. Of course, it's about a virus. The risk of an epidemic is therefore very high because a virus spreads around the world. The virus may weaken, but it might as well be virulent. There are currently no mutations in the virus but any virus can mutate. Otherwise, this virus wouldn't have been there. There is currently no antiviral medicine. So we need to treat this symptomatically with fluid and oxygen. There is also a risk of sur infection as always with severe viral infections. Bacteriological sur infections such as pneumonia will have to be treated with antibiotics. Health care in our country is of good quality, we should be able to handle this normally. We do not have to worry about the number of hospital beds. China has 1.3 billion inhabitants. I therefore understand that they have to build two extra field hospitals with 1,000 beds. We won't have to flatten half a city right away to set up a field hospital. I am confident that we have sufficient capacity for beds. It is good that you are concerned, but I believe that this will prove unnecessary. There was also a question from Mrs Gijbels about possible contact with Minister Goffin. We have each other's phone numbers and we'll call each other, of course. We also have our share in the story with our own powers. Minister Goffin is responsible for Foreign Affairs and Defence. Foreign Affairs is responsible for repatriation via Defence or in a European cooperation. Our services work together. Minister Goffin was asked what would happen if patients landed in Belgium. As soon as patients get on a plane, we are notified and receive some data. On a case-by-case basis, the measures to be taken will then be examined. How many patients are on the plane? What state are they in? Are there people with a fever on the plane or are they just people who come back to our country as a precaution? The decision to evacuate was taken because it was believed that these people were locked up in that province and could not return of their own accord. People were wondering what would happen if there were any danger in terms of security and public order. Medically urgent reasons were not therefore the basis of the decision to repatriate them. Besides, everything happens voluntarily. Those who want to stay can do this. There are also countrymen living there with their Chinese partner and children. So far, we have not been allowed by the Chinese authorities to bring Chinese citizens here. This will undoubtedly become clear in the next few hours. This is true for the whole of Europe, not just for our country. All our countrymen in the region were contacted by our ambassador in China, but there were actually few people willing to come back. Other countries have much more compatriots in Wuhan. For example, there are 500 French, which is of a different order of magnitude. We know from 15 to 17 Belgians with family in total, who want to come back. Is the corona virus contagious without symptoms? That's the big question. Scientifically speaking, the virus is likely to be contagious, because it is transmitted by air, before the symptomatology develops. In the case of sneezing or coughing, there is of course a greater rate at which the virus can spread. Within a distance of a meter from someone who sneezes or coughs, it is not that bad, but the Dutch and the WHO give tips on how best to blow: for example, they do it best in a paper handkerchief, which is thrown away immediately after use. I have also read that one should sneeze in the elbow, according to the Dutch, but that is not easy for me. Some people bought masks. This was particularly the case in France. Those masks are only protective of people who might be infected. People are always seen walking in masks, including at airports, but this is not yet the case. There are several possibilities to separate patients. But, again, that needs to be looked at on a case-by-case basis. One can separate the persons at home and place them under supervision. Blood samples can happen at home. One can also do them as travelers land and then five or seven days later again. We are still discussing these modalities and looking for a scientifically sound method of working. The Dutch wanted to put the people first in quarantine, but are now changing their minds. I have also read that the costs of quarantine and repatriation should be paid in the Netherlands, but I do not think we would go that far. If people in the Saint Peter's Hospital arrive at our services, they will be staying in separate rooms anyway. This possibility also exists in the intensive care department. What should happen if someone is infected? As said in those letters, the right contacts must be established. The patient needs to be taken to the right hospital. That hospital must be informed of this, because those patients are not, of course, brought into the waiting room of the emergency department, but taken separately. The reference laboratory of the KUL is ready. At present, the reference hospital is sufficient. There we can take care of the patients and take care of them in good conditions. The Health Inspectorate informs all people with whom the patient would have been in contact. So far, however, there have been no positive cases. The history is used to determine who might have been infected from the patient's surroundings. It could be people from the family, job or maybe from the committee. The FPS Foreign Affairs, under the authority of Mr Goffin, adapts his travel advice according to the situation. I have seen that measures are also being taken at universities as regards student exchanges. The students concerned may or may not be allowed to leave or return. That happens voluntarily. For the history it is important to find out if the patient was in China 14 days before the onset of symptoms, or had contact with someone who has been there during that period. In all cases described so far in Europe, there was a direct or indirect link with China. The patient is isolated and the staff is of course protected through the regular droplet and contact procedures in our hospitals. They asked for a hotline. I think that's a weird name in case of viral infection, but there is a possibility of contact through Health. We also have a section FAQ, frequently asked questions, which can be consulted on the internet. That's where people get answers to the most frequent questions. If we get questions that aren't in there yet, that will always be changed. We also ask you not to go to wards or emergency rooms, but to have your doctor come to your house. The opinion was read here by Mrs Rohonyi. For those who had not yet found this, an initial opinion has indeed already been issued. Mrs Rohonyi, an erroneous opinion has been corrected. Nevertheless, we had taken all the necessary precautions. Indeed, whether moderate or more serious, the rules are identical. The measures are the same. There is also a lot of information available on the website of Sciensano. There, for example, you can read the letters we sent to the general practitioners and hospitals. Mrs Rohonyi, the suspect cases are isolated in the hospital, while a blood test is carried out and, if necessary, a check is carried out. We have also put the necessary information on www.maggiedeblock.be/coronavirus where you can search for keywords. We are trying to get the necessary information from the people through all channels. Sunday night I went to VTM and RTL to talk about that. There is, of course, cooperation with the Communities. The coordination remains, of course, with Public Health. There is also consultation between the hospitals. The doctors who specialize in infectious diseases have contact with each other and closely follow the cases. In that respect, there is no problem in our country. Mrs Merckx, as regards the fact that this virus would be less deadly but more contagious, that is indeed the current conclusion. However, we know that any virus can mutate at any time. So it could be more virulent. We'll have to see how it evolves. However, a virus may also weaken as it goes around the world. In any case, we must ensure that there are as few victims as possible. The World Health Organisation says that no additional measures should be taken at airports at the moment. Nevertheless, the Italians had started to measure temperature. In the meantime, they have stopped doing that, which is good news because of course this causes panic. We did so at the time for Ebola, but we did not find any case. We had to organize all that at the time because we were a rotary disk for connecting flights. At that time, our airport was the only one in Europe in contact with the three affected West African countries. Those who were already on this committee will no doubt remember the discussions on this matter. We allowed our airport to continue to organise those flights because the people who were working there at the time, doctors, nurses and logistics staff, had to be sure that they could be repatriated if they got sick. That was a first concern. Secondly, there were few people flying to those countries. At that time we agreed that we could fill the aircraft up to its maximum capacity with logistical support for over there, such as lab equipment and all that was needed there. So we have been able to provide a great deal of help to the people in the affected areas. Closing our airport was cutting the connection to over there and making all humanitarian aid impossible. We have had the courage not to, and that was appreciated by the WHO. That has required a great deal of effort from all of us. What's the procedure today? If someone on an airplane gets a fever or gets ill with ebola, there were also symptoms like nausea.................................................................................................................................... That is always the procedure: when a passenger becomes ill, it is waited for when the plane lands and is immediately evacuated. That procedure remains in place. We know what to do and we can give advice if necessary. As far as masks are concerned, they are actually only for people who are already infected, to prevent further contamination. Preventively, that may be a bit reassuring for some people, but sometimes it isn't. National coordination rests with the FPS. We are currently setting up a scientific committee within Sciensano, with people from the Public Health Office. This way we can provide more support. While I'm sitting here, these people can process new information. Tomorrow, this committee will be set up and will be able to follow everything for us. I was asked about the differences with flu. There are great similarities to flu. We can't tell if something is a flu or a contagion to the corona virus. That's not possible. Checking the blood must be done. This, of course, comes at a difficult time. However, a virus does not ask whether we are ready. One thing is good: we have never had direct flights from Wuhan. The flights to and from Beijing and other cities will continue. We are, of course, very vigilant in this respect. We have already been asked whether packages from China could be contaminated. Alibaba is the bol.com of China, I'll say. These packages come either by container or by plane. A container like that from Shanghai is on its way for 49 days. I assume a virus that lives a few hours, so it's already dead. Besides, I don't advise anyone to crawl into the cargo compartment of a plane. There it is minus 50 degrees. I'm sure that's enough to destroy that virus. Of course, we remain vigilant. Until recently, I did not even know that Alibaba existed, and I see that Mrs Jiroflée is also blinking. I'm not a big pack buyer. I shop here. Mr President, I believe that I have gone over everything, but if there is a need for a second round of questions, I will also answer those questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u17	I didn't keep track of it either. I trust the members. Anyone who wants to ask another question can do that. I'll follow the same order in round two. But you don't have to ask questions. It's not mandatory.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u18	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, thank you for giving us a snapshot of the situation. You started by saying that you do not speak, to paraphrase some colleagues, of "wind of panic". I still heard some talk. It is human, when an epidemic affects several countries and there are reports of deaths, that there is a search for information from those responsible, especially politicians. This morning, I took the train. There were three topics of conversation: the recognition of the fatherhood of Delphine Boël by our former sovereign; the demonstration to support and maintain social security; and the coronavirus. I think that is still a concern for our people. We must, and at least we must, be able to give clear information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u19	Do you have a gradation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u20	I'll let you stagger the graduation, minister. I'm telling you there were three subjects, including coronavirus. Thank you for doing the retroacts of this file, for explaining that, and it's unfortunate, this respiratory pathology comes at a time when we're waiting for an influenza epidemic. I think it was a good idea to pass on information to the doctors. You said that this had already been done, including a reference telephone number. I think that's a good thing. You also recalled that KULeuven and St. Peter's Hospital were the reference points. With regard to my specific question about research or the development of a possible vaccine, if there is a vaccine, it will in any case be for a possible future epidemic but not for the current epidemic. We are also reassured that you have your colleague Mr Goffin's phone number. More seriously, I think that we need to be able to keep the ad hoc contacts, particularly with a view to repatriation. For that, too, you reassured us. As we have seen in relation to the incubation period, we will have to re-examine this case in a few days. The figures will certainly have evolved, a different mapping will be proposed, with a country risk index to be updated. This is where we will be able to see the possible spread of the epidemic, especially in Europe. For the rest, since you and my colleague Mrs Jiroflée were astonished, I confirm that Ali Baba is now arriving in Liège Bierset. But when the goods arrive by containers and by boat in 49 days, for a virus that only remains for a few hours, I think the risk is not present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u21	Madam Secretary, thank you for your detailed reply. I think this was necessary. Our citizens are confronted every day with images of new infected people and of people wearing protective suits and mouth masks. The impact on our citizens is considerable. We must show that there is increased vigilance in our country, which I hope will be ready and that our procedures will work. I'm glad you announced today that there's information on the FPS Health website. Among the population is the question of whether we can still receive packages coming from China, such as Alibaba's packets, which are arriving in Bierzet by plane in mass.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u22	It's on the website.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u23	It's on the website, but it's less obvious than how you've explained it now. It's written that it's probably not a problem. People read that like there might be a problem...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u24	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u25	I think people often read the opposite. You have explained the procedures well. I would like to give you another suggestion, but you have already received this question from the pharmacists. It does not seem bad to me that you should communicate, not only to the general practitioners and hospitals involved, but also to all primary care providers, so that they are directly informed by the government. That wouldn't be bad, because now people are getting the reaction that they don't know. You're right when you say they might know, but they say they don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u26	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u27	I agree with that intellectually, but the perception is different. When a pharmacist says...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u28	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u29	You know as well as I do that, when a pharmacist in his pharmacy says that he has not been informed, the citizen believes that. It's spreading like that now. You've seen the coverage yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u30	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u31	You can easily solve that by providing that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u32	(...) to tell them what to do. (...) I was a doctor for 25 years. If one is dealing with one's profession, one is dealing with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u33	Madam Secretary, you must not accuse me of this. I'm just saying what the pharmacists are communicating to you and to the outside world. You are in contact with the professional associations, so contact them. That seems easy to me. I have one specific question. You referred to cooperation with the Communities and doctors in the fight against infectious diseases. In Flanders, during office hours per province, you have to call the doctors to fight infectious diseases from the Agency for Health and Health of the Flemish Community and outside office hours to another number. I do not understand why, unlike in the other part of the country, this is still settled by province. I know this is organised by the Flemish Agency for Health and Health, but this method does not always work. There is another element that I did not understand correctly. A lab in Leuven is about to develop a vaccine. At the same time, the laboratory's responsible states that more proactive investment is needed to prevent vaccines from being developed only when a virus has already broken out. I'm not sure what he's referring to. Do you know what he's talking about? Does he want the laboratory to acquire more resources for research? That is a purely informative question, which you should not get excited about.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u34	Madam Minister, for the record, I would like to begin by giving the floor to all Members who wish to replicate and, if necessary, ask questions. Then I will return the floor to you. Now Mr Bertels is sitting for two minutes over his speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u35	Mr Bertels, you said you would keep it short and strong. I'll show you how to do that. Madam Secretary, thank you for your explanation. I've learned a lot from that. I understand that both we and the Chinese apparently learned from previous virus outbreaks. I'm glad to hear that. I hope that the finger stays on the wrist, so that we remain vigilant as long as there is danger. I have another technical question about the seventh variant. As I understand it, corona forms the basis of the virus and then comes on top of several things, creating variants. Do I understand correctly that of the seventh variant there are no additional similarities to the remaining six variants next to the base? I'm suggesting it a little simple right now, but I'm just a simple person.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u36	Madam Minister, the general message I believe is that we are vigilant and that there is no need for panic. Panic is never a good counselor. At the moment only a limited group of people is to be watched, about fifteen people. However, if it turns out that there are still infections or if it turns out that the virus is spreading very easily, which makes this group of compatriots bigger, we are really ready to roll out a plan right away. I hope you and Minister Goffin exchanged phone numbers. In order to reassure people, which is also very important, I do not think that communication should refer from one to another. People need to know clearly what the plan of action is, and that is best given in one message.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u37	Minister, thank you for your always very comprehensive answers. The purpose of our questions was by no means to give in to panic, as my colleague said. Their goal was to inform the public and question you about the measures you have taken or are in the process of being taken. In the face of such a virus, it is very important to react calmly but quickly. As we know, it is the speed of reaction that will allow us to stem the phenomenon and to contain possible cases. You have taken a series of steps and the guidelines have been sent to physicians, but it is true that information could be extended to other health professionals. I would like some further clarification. Agreements have been reached with the laboratories to analyse suspicious cases. Does this concern only the KULeuven laboratory or also other laboratories? As for the isolation at St. Peter's Hospital, you explained the procedure under way, which is very positive. You also pointed out that you were not at all worried about the capacity of this hospital, as the number of beds was sufficient. I hear it, but it's not just a question of beds, it's also a question of support by the healthcare staff. However, it is well known that caregivers are overloaded and that they work under conditions that are already extremely difficult. Is the nursing staff, whether at St. Peter's Hospital or in other hospitals, now able to support suspicious cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u38	Mr. Chairman, we will hear the Minister's answers to the last questions that have been asked and that are legitimate in this situation. I thank the Minister of Health and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. We have received clear, accurate and transparent information on the situation in response to the questions we have asked. In such a situation, it is extremely important to give good information to the population. However, I would like to draw the attention of colleagues: we must do so while we are aware that the whole population is not necessarily scientific. The message to be delivered must be as clear and practical as possible. The concentration of information in one place is useful for the citizen to know who to turn to. As parliamentarians, we must provide the right information and combat misinformation. In the current situation, there is a lot of misinformation, which only causes panic. If we want the authorities to take the necessary steps in a professional and expeditious manner, this fair information must be the priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u39	Madam Secretary, I have no further questions. I would like to express my thanks and support my colleague's call. We know where to find the information. It's a call to all of us to spread the right information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u40	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I welcome the fact that you are counting on the role of primary care in the context of the crisis. However, I would not recommend that anyone with a fever lets the GP come home, but only if there is a connection with China or with someone who has been in China. We need strong primary care in the future. There's a shortage of general practitioners. If there's an epidemic, I think there might be a problem. However, the debate on this subject should not now take place. I also have a few comments to make. I'm a little hungry with the answers. If it comes to an epidemic, more people will have to be hospitalized. The population here is not as large as in China, but were extrapolations made? Is that what you're doing? I hope that the Sciensano Committee will deal with this in order to know if there is enough hospital capacity to prepare for an epidemic. A crisis must be prepared. I'm also thinking about the mask supply. I think it is important to have enough masks in Belgium. I have not received sufficient answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u41	Thank you, Mr President, I will address the supplementary questions. Mr Prévot, you say that the assessments take place from time to time, but we actually carry out them several times a day.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u42	I mean, in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u43	If you are talking about this assembly, it is not necessary to do so three times a day.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u44	I can call you several times a day, but I don't know if you'll like it!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u45	Mr Bertels, we are ready; the procedures are there. There were already suspicious cases, which later turned negative, and they allowed us to test our procedures and, if necessary, adjust them. This has shown that our procedures are good. We will also ask that the question of packages be clarified at the FAQ. The authors have worked hard on the FAQ and they are also kept up-to-date, just like the website of Sciensano. Why do you need all these numbers? That is because we are obliged to do so. This concerns state matter as a result of the sixth state reform. So I am sticking to the powers. It would be easier, of course, if there was only one song. However, we cannot do that. It is, after all, a matter of state matter. We are therefore working with the Communities. That's right. Proactively developing a vaccine is difficult. After all, it's a very recent mutation. The mutation must be there before a vaccine can be developed. Mrs. Sneppe, you're asking if there are seven variants. Corona is a group of viruses, like SARS and MERS were there. That has to do with the image of the virus in the microscope. There may indeed be differences on the wall. It is now a new variant. It is a new form of coronavirus, which was created. It's probably from some animal and it's mutated, so it's transferable to humans. However, the core is common. That's why they call it the group of the coronaviruses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u46	Madam Secretary, at SARS it took a long time before China reported there was a problem. That took a few months. We do not know, of course, but it may be, for example, that the Wuhan virus, as we will call it, was originally also the SARS virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u47	Mrs Sneppe, no, today's virus is suspected to be of animal origin. My associate, Mr. Pardon, will explain more.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u48	Mrs. Sneppe, the coronavirus is a RNA virus. So the genetic sequence can be clearly compared. China has now been very transparent and published its detection very early, in particular on 9 January 2020. China has also communicated this to other scientific centres, which are able to develop the necessary tests and now also the vaccine. Let me give you an example and make the comparison with the flu virus. Each year, the World Health Organisation examines which virus is eligible to cause a pandemic. Based on that prediction, the vaccine is being developed. That happens every year. Every year, experts look into this. When the advice is given by them, the vaccine is developed. If one is lucky and if it is indeed that virus that circulates, then the vaccine is very effective. If, unfortunately, another virus circulates, vaccination will be less effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u49	The people who are now vaccinated against the common flu may be immune to the flu that will come, but not to the corona virus. The question was asked as to what will happen if we identify more cases. There have been a small number of cases in recent days, less than in other countries, all of which have been found to be negative: the patients concerned were therefore not infected. We will, of course, keep a close eye on the number, we will keep in touch and see if the measures taken are sufficient. The capacity of the reference lab at the KUL is sufficient, but we have the possibility of a backup lab at Sciensano. The same applies to staff; it is now a small number of cases. The largest group of people with flu are infected with the seasonal flu. Then it's about half a million infections every year. Of course, they don't all end up in hospitals. It is of a much smaller size anyway. Mrs Merckx, I certainly do not want anyone with a little fever to call the GP. I remember that in the case of the Mexican flu, many people were afraid to get out of the house because they were sick. So there must always be a link, one must have been in China or have acquaintances or relatives with a Chinese background. The history is of course essential here. As Ms. Taquin said, the messages must be clear. But, as elected officials who are likely to be approached and members of this commission, you can also pass on the information. Mrs Creemers also said that it was up to the committee members to disseminate the information. It is therefore a good thing that the oral questions are put in the context of a topical debate so that the data can be gathered for citizens. With regard to the other subjects on the train today, I will refrain from commenting on them, because they do not fall within my competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u50	Yeah, let's not start a debate on that. Unless someone still wishes to speak, I propose to close the debate on coronavirus. I thank the Minister and her staff for their presence and answers to the questions. We turn to the second debate on the KCE study on maternity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, we turn to the second debate on our agenda. Six questions were raised by members of some groups about maternity. As was the case in the first debate, after listening to these questions, I will give the floor to the members of the other groups who have not tabled questions and who wish to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u52	Mr President, Madam Minister, according to the Federal Centre for Health Care Expertise, 17 maternity wards should close their doors in Belgium. This proposal is motivated solely by the efficiency criteria and therefore by a highly economic connotation. Three maternity wards are concerned in the province of Liège, including that of Huy, which was enlarged on 4 October, after investments of the order of one million euros were made, thanks to public money. These investments were made to provide an even more suitable reception for future mothers, but also to ensure the entry of the Hutois hospital centre into the network of public hospitals in the province of Liège. I recall that this hospital networking is the result of an initiative that you have taken. These investments have therefore been carefully considered while considering that maternity services should, par excellence, remain community services. Minister, do you think it is appropriate to launch such projects when the reform of hospital networks is still in its infancy and has barely begun, and the sector needs stability in order to achieve them? Will the investments made by Huy's maternity service – and this is certainly not the only one that has made such investments – be simply lost? If the three maternity wards in the province of Liège have to close their doors, can you guarantee that the services of the other hospitals will have the technical and human capacity to accommodate, in excellent conditions, future mothers who will have to be reoriented? What do you say to these men and women who have invested without counting in these services and who will not, with a magic wand, be able to reorient their careers, change assignments or change places of work?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u53	Mr. Chair, Minister, we have already had the opportunity to address, through current issues last week, the report of the Federal Centre of Expertise on Health Care (KCE). For reading it, I take the impression that it was developed under the prism of profitability. This is already the first point that I have a problem with. Without wishing to engage in sub-localism, I have learned that, among the three maternity wards present in the territory where I live, that of the CHR of the Haute Senne de Soignies would, according to this report, be threatened with closure. In order to justify this decision, the KCE refers to a cost-effectiveness threshold of 557 births per year per maternity. However, in the light of the figures of the CHR of Soignies, which would therefore be below this threshold, only one year – that is, 2016 – was found in this case. For the following years, more than 600 deliveries were carried out. However, it was 2016 that was taken as a reference by the KCE. For parents residing in the Central Region and, in particular, for Soignies and its surroundings, this would have serious consequences, since they would have to travel more kilometres to be accommodated in larger hospital facilities – for example, in Mons or La Louvière. Without trying to practice storytelling, I inform you that my sister-in-law gave birth a few weeks ago at Soignies Hospital. Although she does not live completely cut off from the world, I challenge her to join – in rush hours or not – the hospital of La Louvière or Mons in less than thirty minutes: it is simply impossible. The consequences would also be harmful for the unborn baby, as he would find himself in impersonal megastructures, but also for the nursing staff – who would have to be reassigned to other tasks, if a mother closes. As for nurses who would receive more births in these larger structures, their working conditions would be even more complicated than they are at present. As far as I am concerned, I believe that maternity wards should remain a community service, accessible both financially and geographically. Minister, these KCE recommendations are intended to remove 17 maternity wards. What is your opinion, possibly updated in the light of last Thursday's debate on this report? Do you intend to consult with hospitals to discuss this report? We are obviously in a process of basins, mergers. My colleague was talking about it just before, and some of the structures have made big investments in recent years. It must be taken into account, of course. It is also necessary to be able to have this debate in consultation with health professionals. As far as the CHR de Soignies is concerned, how do you explain that only the 2016 figures have been retained while maternity has been constantly increasing since 2017? Do you not think that this could create risks for women in the region because of the distance to other maternity homes, the closest in Mons or La Louvière? Do you intend to meet with representatives of the 17 hospitals? Of course, the debate must be conducted in a calm manner, and there are certainly situations where abolition or reorganization will be useful or even indispensable. But in the case of Soignies I'm talking about, I think the experts who drew up this report went a little bit into trouble.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I consider that we are in the test phase. Nevertheless, try to limit yourself to two minutes!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u55	Mr President, that being the case, if my colleague has spoken for three minutes, I will also take time for my speech. I am convinced that you are in favour of the principle of equal treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u56	Of course!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u57	Mr President, Madam Minister, I read the interview you gave this Saturday on a large page in the GrenzEcho where you explained and defended the study of the KCE and its conclusions which would aim to close several maternity wards, including Eupen's. It is also in relation to this element that I will question you today. It had the effect of a bomb in my area. I know that this study is not binding, but I have a few questions about how to proceed. Instead of first coming into contact with the hospitals concerned, the KCE published the results and recommendations of its study and thus created controversy at all levels. The press has mentioned it, staff and patients fear closure and panic; populist parties rejoice and fuel the debate. In addition, the criteria for analysis are also very superficial. Maternity must be available within 30 minutes. However, in my region, the closer you get to the German border, the longer you take to reach the hospital in Eupen and the journey to Verviers is not possible in half an hour. In addition, from a medical point of view, the shorter the path to motherhood, the greater the possibilities for the gynaecologist to initiate a natural birth. It also seems to me that the realities on the ground have not been taken into account. I am thinking in particular of the use of German for German speakers. The management of a hospital also informed me of his questions about the number of births on which the study focuses. That wouldn't be the right numbers. Minister, why didn't the KCE first contact hospitals before making the analysis available to the general public? On what basis does the KCE base itself by defining the accessibility criterion in 30 minutes? How was it verified? Finally, what about regional specificities, including the administration of care in the language of the region?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u58	Madam Secretary, I have four questions, two of which concern the design of the study. The number of approved beds, and not the number of eligible beds, is included as proxy for the required capital investment. This could distort the results and harm hospitals with a larger surplus of approved beds more in the efficiency analysis. Does the relationship between efficiency and the annual number of births remain as clear as only the costs of staff deployment are taken into account in the analysis? Did the KCE make that analysis, too? If so, what was the result? In the end, investments are made by a different level of government than the financing of operating costs. I therefore believe that a separate analysis is relevant for these two variables. Have any other proxys been considered for the investment costs? Why were they stopped or not? In a 2017 KCE study, there is something about the minimum criteria. It says literally: "There is a risk that hospitals within a locoregional network will refer their patients to each other so that all current materials meet the criteria. If this is done, there will be insufficient efficiency gains from hospitals. Is that really a problem? Maybe the referral is just a way to make smaller sizes efficient. What is your view on redirecting within the networks? I have two further questions about the results, which were not quite clear to us. Much has already been said about the 15-minute drive-by. It is actually about 30 minutes, of which 15 are used to offset traffic congestion. The report refers to an appendix with results. Our local groups are interested in the results of the accessibility analysis after the possible closure of a number of materials. However, we do not find that appendix. Would it be possible to somehow get us those graphs? They have been included in the analysis, but they have not been published. Has the language limit been taken into account in the simulation of the 15 or 30 minutes driving time? Is this accessibility achieved in some areas by referring women to a hospital across the language border? If one enters a hospital where one does not speak one's own language, this may cause problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u59	Madam Minister, this debate has already taken place in plenary, but when I say that our children are not goods, that childbirth should not have to meet the demands of economic efficiency, I think, with this sentence, have rather summed up the feeling that followed in the population. As Mrs Jadin said again, in a lot of communes, where the maternity wards would eventually be closed, the inhabitants are really shocked by this announcement. Even yesterday, at the Charleroi Communal Council, from the MR to the PTB, the whole council voted a motion to protest the possible savings to mothers, babies and care for them. The Flemish midwives also responded to the possible closure and study of the Knowledge Centre. Let me quote from their statement: "If we move towards only greater sizes, the emphasis should not be placed solely on efficiency. Childbirth is so much more than efficiency. It's a happening in a community where family and friends can give a good support. Removing this from a community threatens to bring down the quality of this life event in the life of mother and child. Not everything that seems economically the best is also the best decision on bed." I would like to touch on three points in the study. Firstly, it is important that everyone knows that the quality in small sizes is not questioned. I therefore read literally the introduction to the report: "The scientific literature does not allow us to establish a link between the quality of care and the size of the materiality. So safety doesn't pose a problem in a small materiality." It is therefore a purely economic analysis. Secondly, in the study of the Centre of Knowledge, we can also read that they assume that there may be additional childbirths in the large sizes. It only looked at the number of beds and not at the number of available delivery rooms and operating quarters. If more births are to take place in the large sizes, more delivery rooms and operating quarters are of course needed. Thirdly, the proposal to increase the number of births by 17% in the current materialities, but without recruiting additional staff, is nevertheless hallucinating. In the large hospitals there is also an increased workload in the materials today. Moreover, the midwife in the matrimony already complains that they have more acute cases to deal with by shortening the length of the rest after childbirth. As a result, their workload has increased significantly. My questions are as follows. What do you think about the possible negative effects of closing these materials as a result of the increase in the workload in the remaining materials? Have you made an evaluation of the reduction in the length of the matrimony? Is the perception of women sufficiently taken into account in this report? If the workload is increased even more, is there no risk of an increase in C-sections and planned delivery? Do you not think that the closure of the 17 smaller sizes undermines the right to give birth close to home? Finally, the report proposes that the midwife working in the small materials should be retrained and work in the geriatric or rehabilitation services. That is so literal in the report, Madam Minister, and of course it was very badly received by the midwife's association, because they chose this profession to practice it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u60	Minister, as has been said many times, the KCE study at your request has been approached in terms of efficiency and not at all from the point of view of quality of care. According to KCE, there was no scientific link between maternity size and quality of care. However, it might have been interesting to take into account the number of caesarean sectionians, which in Belgium remains 6 to 11 per cent higher than the WHO standard. Not only is the cost of a caesarean section 38% more expensive than the cost of a low birth, but also a caesarean section without a medical indication carries long-term risks for the mother and/or the child. On the other hand, the study indicates that providing advice for breastfeeding can be very time-consuming for midwives. Motherhoods that invest more in this position may appear to be less efficient. However, it should also not be recalled that breastfeeding has multiple health benefits. That element could have been taken into account. As my colleague Mrs Jadin pointed out – my German-speaking colleagues told me about it – neither does the study take into account the mother tongue. By closing one of the two maternity wards in the German-speaking Community, accessibility in 30 minutes could be preserved, but not in German-speaking maternity, which is still a concern. In addition, what is the place of birth homes in the future maternity landscape? Not only do they offer an alternative to parents who are looking for the least medicalized birth possible, they also have a real impact on social security costs. So would it be possible to complete the study by taking into account the organization of pregnancy and childbirth as a whole, in and out of motherhood, and to assess the degree of operationality of the first line? I am talking here about the number of midwives and the number of general practitioners in the immediate post-partum since your decision to shorten the length of the stay in maternity?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u61	I should like to congratulate you, because you are the least of your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u62	Madam Minister, for the Flemish Interest, accessible and qualitative care remains a priority. In the proposals in the study of the KCE, this is apparently not so important, as opposed to savings. We still have questions that the preserved maternity clinics are only 30 minutes drive away. It must be a bit more crowded, there must only be a bridge opened or a railroad bridge closed... In theory, the theorem of 30 minutes might be correct, but in practice it will be in many cases more. We assume that the creation of hospital networks is up to the hospitals and the networks themselves to decide what they want to keep and what they want to reject. As far as maternity clinics are concerned, too, we believe that it is up to the hospital networks to decide what kind of materiality they want to maintain and which not, or where they want to set up a new one. This must also be possible. Do you leave the decision to the hospital networks or not? A hospital is more than just a materiality. In the study we see that the materials were taken from the hospital, which can give a distorted picture. If we decide to abolish materials, we believe that this can lead to two practical problems. Either the mothers will leave far too early, which means they will unnecessarily take up beds, time and staff. Either they are far too late, so the delivery takes place in the car or even on the street, which obviously involves risks for mother and child. Madam Minister, I think that the problem is not that of maternity clinics in itself, but that of the whole hospital funding and the organisation of our care. That is why we dare to say that there is an urgent need for reform of hospital funding. With the current funding, hospitals that work efficiently and cost-effectively see their income flowing into the big pot of the sector. That can't be the intention. Anyone who works well must be rewarded for it. I therefore hope that concrete plans are already on the table to thoroughly analyse and reform hospital funding, so that it is not the maternity clinics that are the victims, nor the hospitals that are doing their best, nor the patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u63	Mr President, Minister, it is good in itself that we have figures and that we have a basis for moving forward and making further plans. That is why this review is a good thing, but at the same time I think that, as my colleague has just said, we cannot separate a materiality from the hospital and that it is one of the many elements that make up a hospital. Moreover, it is hoped that the hospital networks will soon be functional and that we will have to look at it as part of a whole. It is difficult to decide at this stage to abolish one service within that whole of care provision. That is why I have a specific question. Are such studies also planned for other disciplines? When can we expect it? After all, they would come in handy to get a good picture of the whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u64	Mr President, Madam Minister, I have already asked you about this report by the KCE, which recommends the closure of 17 maternity wards. I'm questioning you because the sector remains very concerned as well as the women who will be impacted. This report therefore threatens one in four mothers in Wallonia and one in six in Flanders. Minister, why this difference? Has the KCE taken into account the reality of Wallonia, which is a particularly dense territory and, however, underserved by public transport? You know the reality of the 60/40 allocation key at the SNCB level, for example. Has it taken into account the figures of the Hainaut Health Observatory, which attests to inequalities in health, and which make, for example, the maternity wards of Lobbes and Auvelais particularly essential, in order not to exacerbate these inequalities further? Has it taken into account the fact that, since 2016, when the figures used for the study were published, some maternity wards have had to close? This is the case of the maternity of Vesale in Montigny-le-Tilleul, which closed its doors in August 2019? Has it also taken into account the number of births, as well as the number of pre- and post-natal visits and follow-ups of unsafe pregnancies? I would also like to rest with you the questions, to which I was unable to obtain answers at the plenary meeting on 16 January. With regard to the supervision of the maternity staff that will be abolished, you have committed yourself in plenary to conducting a dialogue for this, and I am very pleased to do so, except that you immediately made it clear that hospitals and hospital networks should also play a role. As a result, you send the bullet back to hospitals, while the follow-up of this staff, who did not ask anyone, is your responsibility. So I wanted to know what part of the role you feel should be played by these hospitals in reorienting staff rather than by your services. I also wanted to know how you intend to recruit new midwives, knowing that this sector is now clearly targeted by your savings measures. How do you intend to respect their vocation? The KCE report stresses, for example, that midwives could be offered further training in nursing as well as more midwives will be needed outside hospitals for post-natal care at home, for example; noting that this greater autonomy will, however, require further training. As a result, midwives are now expected to be able to convert to other occupations or to undergo longer and more advanced training. This raises not only the question of respect for their vocation, but also the question of whether the federated entities responsible for education have been consulted on this issue. What is their position today? Finally, can you assure us that the minimum birth threshold will no longer be revised upwards in a few years, threatening new maternity closures? In the European countries, for example, the KCE, and for yourself in some subsequent interviews, the threshold is not 600 births per year, as proposed today, but 1,000. In response to our questions in plenary on 16 January, you have rightly admitted that some have stressed the need to raise the threshold to 900 or even 1,000 births per year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u65	Madam Secretary, you can see that it is a sensitive issue. The Health Care Knowledge Centre is a renowned institution. The exercise made by the Knowledge Centre must certainly be taken into account in the debate. The cost efficiency and other parameters used by the Knowledge Centre are important, but should not be the only elements. Madam Minister, I have two comments to make. First of all, don't push the cart for the horse. First, we need a division of labour, with a legal and financial framework, within the hospital networks, which are currently being built up. Before that framework exists, we cannot start closing down services, because the whole thing needs to be looked at. One can compare hospital funding and probably also future network funding with Mikado. One cannot just pull one stick out, otherwise the whole pile will collapse. It is therefore important to look at the whole picture. Secondly, for sp.a it is important that there is warm care with local basic care. So network care must also be close. Most future mothers want to give birth in a trusted, safe environment and we therefore believe that they should be part of the basic local care system. This could already be read in the comments of the midwife. The care for mother and child is part of the local basic care and our hospital networks should therefore be given the opportunity to work out the organisation of that local basic care. I believe that there will be a role for local hospitals within the hospital networks. We need to focus on that before we start emotional discussions about closing matrimony. Let the hospital networks do it their way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u66	I will repeat myself, because similar questions have already been raised in plenary. Since the foundation of the KCE, in which I was present, I have never seen so much fuss about a supporting study of the KCE. I myself, on behalf of the Chamber, was in the KCE session until 2011 when I became Secretary of State. Then I was replaced by Mrs Muylle. Before me, that was Mrs Avontroodt. I've never seen a study by the KCE, a scientific study by an independent institute, be attacked like that. People sometimes make a caricature of it here, with a lot of emotion. A motion will be filed in the city council of Charleroi. If you don't have anything else to take care of there, fine with me. It's a good thing you're doing it, but I don't understand why a study would give rise to this. It is not a political decision that is being implemented. It is a supportive study on why a minimal activity is needed at the maternities. Mr Bertels said that we should not put the cart in front of the horse. The study of the KCE serves as a support to explore what can be done on the ground when working in networks. What would be a good capacity utilisation of the materials? What's that gonna lead to? Do we consider the distance to be covered? The KCE has made a distinction between cities and rural areas and has worked together for this purpose. One hasn't just been driving around from hospital to hospital. The KCE has collaborated with the National Geographic Institute for this purpose. All the cards are in the appendix. It shows where one is within ten, fifteen or thirty minutes, even in the case of a lot of traffic, at a demonstration in the city, at a traffic jam in the city. By the way, how many more women are on their way to the materials in Brussels today with all these congestions here. This could also be the subject of a study. In any case, this is an opinion which will be discussed in consultation with the hospitals. Mrs Jadin, you're asking me why I didn't get in touch. In the KCE study, it is indicated with whom they cooperated. I do not speak German, but you know what I mean, the COCOM and the other Communities, including the Health and Health Agency, were represented, as always. They are stakeholders of the KCE, like many other actors. The KCE provides its own communication. Of course, as a minister, I am informed a few days in advance about this communication, but the nature and content of his communication is decided by the KCE, otherwise it would not be an independent institution and I could apply censorship to it. I can't. The methodology is always well discussed within the KCE. It certainly took account of the special situation in the German-speaking Community, where there are three hospitals for 77 000 people...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u67	Two hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u68	Three hospitals, reachable for 77.000 people. They're in the report. You can find them there. That is taken into account. Mrs Creemers, you say that the number of approved beds is taken into account. That's right, but that determines how many staff are to be provided. Whether a bed is occupied or empty, the staff is provided. The number of responsible beds is not a constant. If there are ten beds in a hospital, of which one bed is occupied half the year, one day in two a childbirth, then we can think about how much resources go there and how that hospital could use those resources on other services where resources are too short. This has been the case in Geraardsbergen, for example, and I would like to mention this as a courageous choice, where one has chosen to close too small a maternity with 200 childbirths per year, in consultation with the surrounding hospitals, and to invest the budget released in the outpatient support of pregnant and pregnant women. This is particularly valuable for a vulnerable audience: not the three or four days in the hospital are decisive, but the guidance before and after delivery, in which the midwife can play a role. I understand the emotion in all villages and cities, but that pregnant women are now suddenly giving birth on the streets does not seem to me to be the issue, and if that were to happen, it will be a very quick and smooth delivery. Experience shows that things don't always go so smoothly, but I've only had two children. In reply to your question, Mrs Creemers, I can tell you that the tickets are in the appendix. When you open the full report, you will see that all the tickets in the appendix are consultable. Maybe you should try again. The cards are in the appendix from pages 150 to 160. The KCE always works with its reports in full transparency. I've already discussed the run-on times. The driving times were taken into account. Let me also point out that we have four times as many materials as we have in France. So if there is a woman on the street somewhere, it will happen sooner in France than here. The study took into account all possible factors to be dealt with. In 80% of cases, women have a choice of more than eight sizes which are sufficiently close to reach. Those who can't make a choice from eight materials yet are very picky. However, when the first contraction arrives, the woman will soon know where to go. Mrs Merckx, you spoke of the right to give birth close to home. I should review the Constitution in order to know whether that right is registered in it. Having a baby in the house is a right, by the way. That close to home birth is more true in Belgium than in the neighbouring countries. Women have a free choice: women can choose not only the gynecologist, but also the materiality she is going to. We see that this choice can be preserved. Mrs Sneppe, I have said a thousand times that this is not about saving. The KCE has examined how the number of matrimony beds can be used more cost-efficiently so that the funds can then be spent in the services where more resources are needed. Again, that has to be decided within the network. This study will have already provided one example, in particular that the dialogue within the networks will indeed be conducted. Of course new studies are coming, Mrs Gijbels. There's always a whole list. It's up to the KCE to decide. I have the right of insertion, as a minister, but Parliament also has the right to do so. Every year there is a call: who wants to request which studies? The KCE must set its priorities. It determines the order in which people from his permanent staff must be employed and sometimes it also recruits specialists ad hoc when it comes to other matters. I believe that there has been thorough work done here. Well, that's a good thing to say. We may be proud at our Knowledge Center. That has a very good international reputation. It also makes comparisons with what happens in other countries. In short, there is still a whole list of studies on the way. Why figures for 2016? Well, because this study took some time. Should we be able to use the 2018 figures, we would. We see that the number of births is falling. It's not rising. What is increasing is the number of midwifes. I will use the gender-neutral term. Their number has doubled in five years. We have launched the mother-child path so that when parents, grandparents and children do not live under the same church tower, the pregnant or newly given birth woman can still get help from a midwife. It used to be only in the cities. Now there are midwifes who come to the house. As a result, the number of midwifes increased slightly, but if there is a doubling of the number in five years, I wonder what we should do with all these people in a few years' time, as fewer children per woman are always born. With regard to the methodology of the KCE and its conclusions, this study can be carried out on the ground. It is now up to the hospital networks to decide among themselves what the situation is. I am asked if I will consult with the hospitals. I don't see why. I have no decisions to make in this respect. Why do I have to visit 104 hospitals to discuss this with them on the basis of a study by the KCE that can be consulted by everyone? That's really not my role. I'm not gonna do that. If I have to do that for all the studies at the KCE, I'm much more on the job than I am now. Can we not use the women and men who work on the relevant services, possibly by means of the funds released, to maintain such under-utilised materials? The KCE proposes a solution, but without affecting quality, accessibility and, of course, freedom of choice. There are actually 21 sizes that don't fit. Because the KCE has taken into account accessibility and lack of mobility, the number is limited to 17 materials. So there is still plenty of choice for women. I have pointed out that this is a quality study. I remain convinced of that. We still have to wait and see what happens on the ground. However, we must make every effort to read the study carefully, to look at what is in it and to allow emotionality to evaporate somewhat. Taking decisions that would limit efficiency, accessibility and freedom of choice on the basis of emotion is not good. For example, there are materials that should be closed, such as the material in Geraardsbergen, which was already closed in 2019. The study was on its way, 17 materials become 16. Perhaps there are still materials in there that have already been closed or merged. Mrs Rohonyi asked me why there was a difference with Flanders. This is a national study with the same parameters. However, Flanders has already experienced more mergers than in Wallonia. Because those mergers may also have merged or abolished maternities and therefore there is already a movement in Flanders to deal rationally with them, in Wallonia more maternities are close to each other than in Flanders. I think it is good that there is emotion, but the caricatures that are made of it as if mothers are going to have to give birth on the ground or on the street, or mothers who are going to have to ride on a bike or on horseback to matrimony, I find substandard. Perhaps one should put the study aside for a month and then reread it with less emotion to learn what really is in it. When one reads or hears something emotionally, one always remembers something other than what it says. That's the case sometimes. You can either state in your motion on the Charleroi City Council or you can state that nothing can change there. Unless that is organized in Charleroi itself, of course, and the hospitals can make agreements among themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u69	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers, which, I admit, leave me somewhat on my hunger at many levels. The basic premise of the KCE is not trivial. I do not believe for a second that it is the mere result of naive reflection on the future of our maternity wards, for lack of priorities or work. As you have said, it is a long-term work that has been carried out with a starting premise that is not to look at how to improve the services offered in the current maternity wards, but how to ensure that all future births can be managed by fewer hospitals and, in fact, in the current state of things, less quality. You say you don't understand the emotion that this gives you. I'll tell you that I don't understand that it doesn't generate any in you. These are policy directions that, if they were to be put in place, would fundamentally affect future mothers and their future children. Comparison is not right: you have repeatedly compared what is happening in Belgium with other countries, notably France. I would also like to know whether, in this case, the quality of care given in France compared to Belgium has been compared and whether the choice to reduce the number of maternity wards on the quality of future care has been made, rather than simply making a mathematical comparison of the number of births possible. Minister, maternity remains a first-rate service par excellence. In this context, the establishment of networks provides that the local hospital supply must be as close as possible to the population. That is the principle of subsidiarity in your reform. I'm not making up anything. Only highly specialized services must be centralized and this option of centralization of specializations is defended. But, to ensure a thirty-minute accessibility, especially in Huy, a case that I stressed here, but also in Eupen, as pointed out in other areas, we will need means. It's a reality on the ground. This access to health care must be guaranteed for all, otherwise it will generate unnecessary stress and may endanger future mothers and their babies. Contrary to what you are saying, Madam Minister, I do not have the feeling that it is just a purely technical and medical act. I therefore believe that our future mothers deserve our utmost attention. We agree! I'm convinced of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u70	Mr Rigot, the KCE says that the quality of care in our maternity wards is generally good. But one realizes that, for natural and safe deliveries, which are just a little painful, the fact that there is a lot of expertise or not intervenes. On the other hand, for difficult cases, for example when the child is ill-positioned... In difficult cases, such as a breech position, the quality of care depends again on the exposure, on the number of cases the gynecologist and the team have already experienced. There is a higher risk if there is not enough expertise. That's what's written down. You say we need the best care for moms and kids. When they are born very premature, they must be followed up in specialized services; there are not all of them. Anyway, I agree with you when you say you need the best care for moms and babies. But it is necessary to make a difference between births that are quite natural, without complications and those that are very difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u71	Madam Minister, I would ask you to allow Mr. Rigot to continue as part of his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u72	I understand the emotion on the subject. I can hear him. She's here with us, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u73	Mr Rigot, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u74	Minister, I am pleased that quality is maintained. But the question of mobility remains. In addition, the analysis addresses the issue of efficiency in particular. Let us not forget that, for the federal government, the cost of childbirth in a small motherhood is not higher than the cost of childbirth in a larger motherhood. On the other hand, the question arises as to what will happen tomorrow, if in the emergency services, we find that future mothers are about to give birth and that we must organize a medical transport from front-line hospitals to second-line hospitals because of a lack of maternity. This will represent an additional cost that will have to be borne. In addition, if the maternity wards agree to be in deficit, we can accept this choice, which is a political choice, Madam Minister. In my view, medical services may be in deficit at certain levels. In addition, we believe that maternity care must remain humane, as it ensures a quality of care, as well as a quality of reception. The PS therefore defends a policy of care accessible to all, both geographically and financially, in a quality environment, with competent staff, at efficient costs. And if the number of births is to be increased to 1,000 so that Huy's motherhood can survive, I will simply say that we need to move specialists to hospitals, and therefore move supply to demand. In any case, Huy's maternity will be able to guarantee those 1,000 births you would need, or the KCE would need, to maintain the supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u75	Mr Prévot, I now give you the floor and ask you to try to respect your two minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u76	Minister, I am also a little surprised that you yourself are astonished by the turmoil that this study has generated. The press reported on the findings of this study. And we've realized that the methodology you're obviously defending is at least questionable. You said the methodology integrated all the parameters. No, that's not correct, because you don't take into account local or regional particularities. I have quoted the specific case of my brother, who cannot go to maternity in less than 30 minutes. And I assure you that he's going by car; he doesn't take the horse or the scooter or any other means of transport. You took the example – among others – of a place near which a motherhood was located. For my part, I do not react emotionally. You will, moreover, be very happy to learn that tonight I must participate in a communal council, during which a motion will be tabled by various parties – including the Reform Movement, which sits alongside you in the government – and voted unanimously. I also launched a petition, after realizing the emolument generated by this KCE study. Personally, I do not rely on "democracy", but only on the criteria set by the KCE. The threshold is 557 births per year. Soignies has been lying above this threshold since 2017. I would add that the proximity and distance criteria – also defined by the KCE – are also not met. I therefore do not understand that the report concludes that the maternity of Soignies should be closed. Similarly, I cannot explain that you are continuing to defend this report, in the lead, without any concerted reflection with the sector. Moreover, you yourself pointed out that a discussion was under way in the Walloon Region about the hospital network.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u77	Minister, I will bounce back on two points. First of all, you said that three hospitals in the vicinity of Eupen could accommodate any woman who would like to give birth in this city. That is not true, because it is based on a criterion on which I have not received an answer and which concerns the ability to be cared for in one's language. We didn't discuss it. If we close the hospital of Eupen, there will remain only the one of Saint-Vith which is located 65 kilometers from there, without highway. So it's simply impossible. Secondly, I am very surprised, Madam Minister, to hear that the German-speaking Community (Deutschsprachige Gemeinschaft) would have taken part in the study which was published. That's information I didn't have. That is why I will come back to question you, particularly with regard to the conclusions supporting the closure of Eupen's maternity. Finally, since 1 January, hospital networks have been under construction. I hope that they will play their full role, including with regard to maternity in rural areas. I repeat that this is only a study and that no political decision has been taken. It goes without saying that the Reform Movement wants to keep maternity homes close and accessible throughout the country, especially in rural areas, so that our mothers can give birth and be cared for in the vicinity of their home.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u78	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the answers. I may not have looked closely at the tickets, but I'm making a second attempt. There is a lot of emotion here looking at the study because this matter is close to the people. Let me give a good example from the region where I come from. From the hospital network in Limburg, the idea has grown from the bottom up to close a maternity in Bree. There's been very little fuss around there. If emotion calms down a bit and if the hospital networks can make their own decisions, then I have every confidence that this will work out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u79	Mr President, Minister, you do not understand that this study by the KCE is causing so much fuss. You say you've never seen that before. Let me explain to you why I think there's been so much fuss. Firstly, the aim of that study was to investigate how one can save in a scientific way. How did that work? In 2017, the Knowledge Centre made a first study. It is clearly assumed, and this has been going on for years, that there are far too many hospital beds in Belgium. In that 2017 study, the Knowledge Centre says that there is no escape from the fact that services will have to be closed down and that, if you decide to go in that direction, you will need to do solid study and figure work. Then there is the second study, as a result of the first. The question was whether there could still be savings in the materials. The researchers of the Knowledge Centre felt that this could trigger a lot of emotion. This study examines the efficiency of the organisation of the materials, weighing the costs against the results obtained. That seems shocking. Is it acceptable to ask such a question about such an ancient and vital concern? Is it even ethical? It was clear that this study would lead to debate. In that study, the question was whether the same result could be achieved at a lower cost. It is therefore a question of saving mother and child care, a saving in childbirth. The second reason why people are shocked by this study is the enthusiasm with which you welcomed them, Madam Secretary. You said on your website that you think it's an opportunity. Of course, you've been working on that saving logic for years. People do not agree at all with this saving logic, because they feel what has happened in hospitals in recent years: saving, saving, saving. It is not for nothing that the nurses have been on the streets in recent months against these savings. We have been able to ensure, among other things, through the struggle of the nurses, here in Parliament, through the PVDA amendment, that more than 400 million more will go to hospitals. That is the direction we must take. Thirdly, Mrs De Block, people are tired of having to pay for the savings. Others are not paying the bill for the crisis today. You say there are fewer births and so fewer midwifes are needed, but it's not because there are fewer births...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u80	You're not listening to what I'm saying. There is a doubling in five years. So this trend is rising, while the number of births is falling. I'm not saying that there should be fewer midwifes, but I'm saying that that exponential increase has been totally ripped off.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u81	Madam Secretary, you make it appear that fewer midwifes are needed. The report itself talks about that too. The report suggests that midwifes should be retrained and that there should be a limitation on the number of students in midwife training. I do not think this reasoning is entirely valid. I've had three kids of my own. In a first or second delivery one needs a midwife much more intense because one knows it afterwards. It is not because there are fewer births that women need less support from midwife. On the contrary, there are more vulnerable women today and there are also more and more women without a social network. The natural way in which women used to find advice about giving birth and how to go through childbirth is gone. I therefore believe that there is a greater need for midwife.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u82	Madam Minister, I am still hungry because I think my questions have gone through the door. I asked you about the deliberate and rather limited scope of the subject matter of the KCE study in which the quality of care was not taken into account. The role of the first line must also be taken into account when making a global reflection on maternity. Not all deliveries must be part of the second line. That was the bias of this study, and I do not agree with it. I did not have an answer on taking into account the number of caesareans, when these are numerical and objective data. There was also no response to breastfeeding in maternity wards or to the role of birth homes and the role of the first line in relation to the second. It would be interesting for this study to have an overview. Is it possible to broaden the scope of the study and to take into account the quality of care, because the term "efficiency" is not enough in my view?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u83	Madam Secretary, when it comes to mothers and children, it can only be about emotions. However, I can partially follow you when you say that we need to look at the report at some distance. I am still hungry as regards my question as to what is going on with the reform of hospital funding. Apart from emotion and other perspectives, we must work on this in particular. Not the materials are the problem, the hospital financing itself is the problem. I am pleased that Mr Jadin stood up for the German speakers and I hope she will do the same for the Flemings in Brussels so that they can also be cared for in their own language. I have noticed that this dossier also has a Community dimension, because Flanders has already formed networks while Wallonia is the less good pupil in this story. I therefore call for the division of social security and the transfer of powers to the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u84	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your answers, even if they leave me completely on my hunger, like my colleagues, and like the questions I asked you in plenary. Let us be clear: we do not question the independence of the KCE at all. We question the elements that were used to prepare this study, and their incompleteness. In the meantime, maternity wards have had to close. Motherhoods are not only responsible for managing births, but also for prenatal and postnatal follow-ups. They also play a role in the detection of diseases in infants. This follow-up requires a certain proximity which would be undermined with the closure of these maternity wards. It is not at all a question of reacting with emotion, but of being realistic and pragmatic. That's our role. I also regret that you are in favour of this closure on the basis of this study even before real guarantees have been obtained, in particular as regards the conversion of midwives to other professions. Therefore, their vocation will not be respected. You let hospital networks manage these reorientations alone and I find this particularly unfair. As for the argument that we do not have to complain because the situation would be more serious in France, I do not think that to say that the worst exists elsewhere is an argument. In France, I observe that it sometimes takes more than an hour to go to give birth. As I said, this poses real accessibility problems. In 20 years, half of the maternity wards had to close in France. Besides, I don't think we should compare apples and pears. In France, this policy of massive closure of maternity homes took place to target the threshold of 300 births per year. We did not pursue the same logic at all in Belgium. I would also like to make a call to you. You rightly underline the role of KCE in the establishment of objective studies. I suggest that you ask for another study, which would be broader and which would be aimed at our birth policy. In fact, today, if savings can be made, it is not necessarily on the existence of these maternity homes as such, but on practices, especially on Caesarean women who are very expensive to social security and who are not necessarily justified. The closure of these maternity wards will deprive these women of the right to choose which type of institution to go to, when pregnancy is not at risk. This poses a real problem and requires real thought. You could lead her with the KCE.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u85	Qualitative, accessible and affordable health care and basic care are important for sp.a. We keep saying that all the time. These are now important and will continue to be important in future hospital networks. Childbirth should be possible in a trusted and safe environment. It is part of the local basic care, just as mother and child care are part of the local basic care. We hope that the networks will have the opportunity to work out this basic local care and that local hospitals will be involved, so that they can continue to guarantee good, local, qualitative and accessible basic care together with the first-line areas in Flanders. That must be our objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u86	Mr President, the committee was due to end at 5 p.m. We have therefore set our agendas according to this timetable. What time does the minister intend to stay? This would allow us to adapt. We have questions waiting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u87	I'd like to know, too. I guess it won't be later than 5:30 p.m. We still have time to ask three questions to the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u88	Minister, the Bra-sur-Lienne heliported medical centre is intended to provide a service of the SMUR type primarily by heliport, taking care of the patient's transport to the hospital, but also by road when weather conditions do not allow the flight. In fact, it is an ASBL which carries out its tasks within the framework of a convention between the SPF Santé publique and the CHU de Liège, specifically for the provinces of Luxembourg, Namur and Liège, but also for the south of the province of Hainaut, which is particularly poorly covered. According to some information, and despite an undeniable public utility, it appears that this structure would be threatened both by a lack of a legal operating framework and by insufficient funding from the federal government. The 72,000 medical centre membership cards cover 47% of the costs of the ASBL. The remaining 53% are supported by intervention bills, donations, medical services, support from several municipalities and the provinces of Liège and Luxembourg. Minister, is the sustainability of the medical centre through the adoption of an ad hoc legal or regulatory framework on the agenda? To a question addressed to you in July 2018, you replied that you had asked the National Council for Urgent Medical Assistance to look into the issue of means of helicopter medical assistance and that a working group had been set up to draft an opinion on this issue. What about it? Finally, is federal funding for the continuation of this service envisaged? For what amount? In July 2018, you mentioned the amount of 62,500 euros on an annual basis. Will it be the same for the next few years or does the government finally have the ambition to recognize this service through funding that would match the work it does?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u89	Mrs Rohonyi, so far, part of the financing of the helicopters of the AZ Sint-Jan Brugge and Bra-sur-Lienne-CHU of Liège (two times 62 000 euros per year) is provided by the federal government in the framework of pilot projects in addition to the SMUR funding that these two hospitals receive. There is no intention of changing this situation at this time. You know that we are in a situation of provisional twelfths, so we need an exemption and a reason for the decision to change the amounts. In addition, the current affairs situation does not allow for new policies. After the reorganisation of the ground-based means of emergency medical aid, which I have led and thanks to which ambulance services have seen their financial resources triple since 1 January 2019, it would be necessary to further clarify the place and use of helicopters in the framework of the organisation of health care. However, as I have already said, these are new initiatives that I cannot take as a resigning minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u90	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that funding is provided by the federal government as part of a pilot project that you cannot change because of the provisional twelfths. We are indeed in day-to-day business, but the concern that arises from the situation that already existed before. As I told you, in July 2018, you had already been questioned about the fate of the Heliporté Medical Center in Bra-sur-Lienne. A more lasting solution to the financing of the Centre might have already had to be found at the time. Meanwhile, the situation has deteriorated. There is growing concern among citizens. A petition has been launched. To date, it has collected nearly 14,000 signatures. Support actions are also organised. I would point out that this Centre has proved, in addition to its effectiveness and usefulness, the seriousness of its work, since it makes a detailed and comprehensive report of its interventions every year. Given the work of this Centre but also the data that it is able to provide you, it would be time to consider a lasting solution for its financing, its existence. As you are unable to do today, I appeal to your successor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u91	Madam Minister, the number of pharmacies has fallen by around 300 over the last ten years, but the number of self-employed pharmacists has fallen by double. Do you have any idea of the main reasons for self-employed pharmacists to leave their business to a larger organisation? Does that have an impact on health insurance or not? Research shows that 8.8 % of pharmacists are still in need after retirement. This makes it one of the most common sectors of work. That's very exceptional. Do you have an explanation for this? Do you have an idea of the turnover per patient in cooperative pharmacies compared to the turnover per patient in a self-employed apotheque? I would have liked to have compared the turnover per patient and per pharmacy between Wallonia and Flanders. I learned from the press that the average turnover per pharmacy per patient in Wallonia would be higher than in Flanders. Is that right? How much is the difference in average turnover? My final question was about the moratorium, but since it has been extended in the meantime, I shall drop that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u92	Mr President, Madam Minister, small compagnies are increasingly suffering from the very harsh competition of large pharmaceutical groups, but also from e-pharmacies that have the wind in their stern. It is difficult for these small independents to cope with these mastodons that break prices. Some do not hesitate to point out that they are obviously not housed in the same sign. They are bound by the Order's very binding code of ethics, while parapharmacies and e-pharmacies do not have the same obligations. Small independents also do not have the strike force of large pharmaceutical groups. Above all, they do not have the same opportunities for development. Minister, what is your opinion on the concerns expressed by these small independent pharmacists about the risk of not being able to fight and ever having to close their trade? Since the implementation of these supermarkets of the medicine and the care products, have any controls been carried out there? Has there already been any consultation with the various partners, such as the Belgian Pharmaceutical Association (BPA) or the Office for Cooperative Pharmacies in Belgium (OPHACO)? If not, why and when could it take place? Is it possible today to assess the impact of opening such supermarkets in terms of the consumption or over-consumption of medicines but also in terms of self-medication and, in order to ensure the protection of patients? Are there any new initiatives being considered regarding the quality of the territorial network of pharmaceutical clinics? Finally, Madam Minister, can you indicate whether all the places where drugs are delivered have the same legal and ethical obligations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u93	Thank you for your questions, Mrs Depoorter and Mr Rigot. Mrs Depoorter, you yourself are a pharmacist and you will know what is going on in the sector and why the number of self-employed pharmacies and pharmacists has fallen in recent years. I am referring to a phenomenon of consolidation of the market, where there was and is a certain oversatisfaction. In order to reduce oversaturation, I renewed the moratorium until 8 December 2024. The relevant Royal Decree of 5 December was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 6 December. I also replied to your sixth question. Health insurance is not affected by mergers and/or removals from pharmacies, as reimbursement depends on a medical prescription. The fact that pharmacists remain active after retirement is probably due to the fact that most pharmacies are a legal person and thus the combination with the effective benefit of a pension is possible. As for your questions about the sales of the pharmacies, the health insurance only has figures on the reimbursement of medicines, so not on the total turnover of your pharmacy. That seems to me to be familiar with your accountant, but not with me. They still have a turnover of products that are not refunded, if I look around in all the pharmacies. Moreover, for the RIZIV, no distinction can be made between self-employed and cooperative pharmacies. Mr Rigot, as far as your question is concerned, I can tell you that the number of small independent pharmacies has actually decreased in recent years because of a phenomenon of consolidation of saturated markets. This is why a moratorium was introduced on 6 December 2019 and extended until 8 December 2024. New pharmacies are therefore the result of mergers or removals of existing pharmacies. In the multi-year framework, for the patient with the official pharmacists, I concluded on March 15, 2017, with the professional associations (APB and OPACO), to consider a relaxation of the rules of merger and travel. An extra-mural room linked to a pharmacy should give independent pharmacists the opportunity to also develop an activity via the Internet. Legal bases and implementing orders are ready but not yet published. Major pharmaceutical or parapharmaceutical groups as well as e-pharmacies focus primarily on non-reimbursable drugs and care products. For medicinal products, the quality and delivery standards in force as well as the controls carried out by the inspection of the AFMPS are the same for all pharmacies, whether large or small. Large pharmacies can, of course, optimize their profitability. This would allow them to work with lower margins for the benefit of patients. Independent pharmacists, on the other hand, have all agreed to apply the maximum price allowed for medicines not reimbursed. As far as health care insurance is concerned, all refundable medicines are subject to medical prescription. The pharmacy's surface area therefore has no influence on the expenditure or over-consumption of reimbursable drugs. As far as the risks of self-medication are concerned, I can assure you that the ethical rules and the rules of good pharmaceutical practice are the same for all pharmacists, whether they work in a large pharmacy, in e-pharmacy or as an independent in a pharmacy open to the public. They are therefore responsible for providing advice and accompaniment to the patient as part of his or her medical treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u94	Madam Secretary, I know why there are fewer self-employed pharmacists. There are very few sectors that have experienced a fall in margins year after year. Self-employed pharmacies are one of those sectors. That is a matter of concern. When we move to large groups, we will have to watch very closely over the deontology of the pharmacy. As Mr Rigot said, overconsumption also lurks around the corner. Even this week, patients have shown me a non-addressed and therefore lukre voucher that is put in the mailboxes throughout Flanders with a discount code. There is a 20% discount. That's true of the unpaid medication. You answered that correctly. If we are really looking at public health and the over-consumption of medicines, painkillers and others, then we really need to keep an eye on such actions. A group will have a different ideology than an independent pharmacist in a professional association. It is up to Parliament to monitor public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u95	Minister, my colleague has summed up the fears that we can legitimately feel. Indeed, we fear that e-commerce and large pharmaceutical groups will further facilitate self-medication, as the pharmacist will not be able to provide advice or guidance to the patient by making him or her responsible. There is also a risk of overconsumption. Not only will this put the patient at risk, but it will also cost social security. Next, care must be taken to protect the most isolated areas and to ensure the presence of pharmacies. As such, I am pleased to hear that you are going to draft texts aimed at ensuring flexibility and will be very happy to hear about them. In any case, let us be careful that this presence is guaranteed throughout the territory, even if we resort to incentives and, perhaps, to constraints for large pharmaceutical groups that would not intend to get lost in the most inaccessible or least profitable areas. And this would be applied, of course and above all, in the interest of the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u96	Madam Secretary, the purpose of the implementation of the Falsified Medicines Directive (FMD) in the pharmacy is to provide the patient with guarantees of the authenticity of his medicinal product, as well as to assist the pharmaceutical industry in its fight against counterfeiting and counterfeiting. In March 2019, the APB wrote you a letter with concerns about the costs that the implementation of this system would entail for pharmacists. Last week or two weeks ago, the professional associations wrote you a similar letter with their concern about the additional costs they had to bear for the digitisation of the Falsified Medicines Directive. The pharmacists have made a lot of efforts in recent years to digitize. It doesn't always work as well. This morning the eHealth system was down again, but of course it is a useful tool. However, they bear all these costs themselves, while other care providers can rely on the government via Impulseo or Impulsfonds. Madam Minister, is it true that for the implementation tasks that have been written out by the government and its missionaries, only implementation up to the door of the pharmacy has been taken into account? If so, can there be any compensation for the costs incurred by pharmacists? It concerns 450 euros of software costs that are passed on. Moreover, without warning, pharmacists have had to buy new scanners. That's 500 euros per scanner. An average apothecary has two easy ones. It is therefore a minimum EUR 1 450 per pharmacist. Do you provide for compensation or compensation to pharmacists for these adjustments imposed? How will you respond to the letters sent to you by the pharmacists?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u97	Mrs Depoorter, for the implementation of this system, we need to follow European legislation in this area, in particular Directive 2001/83 and the Delegated Regulation 2016/161. These clearly stipulate that the cost of developing the system must be borne by the manufacturers of the medicinal products. The system provides for a number of functionalities that will be used intensively by pharmacists, such as the verification of a packaging. This is done via an interface to which the pharmacist software will be linked. In this way it is avoided to build a separate system that runs alongside the normal pharmacy software. Scanning a barcode can thus be fully integrated into the normal delivery flow. I would add that regulation has placed responsibility for the development of the system in the sector, precisely with a view to being as cost-effective as possible. The government therefore does not intervene in the financing of the system. By the way, the Falsified Medicines Directive system benefits public health as it aims to avoid the delivery of falsified medicines to the patient. This is a responsibility of the entire production and distribution chain. It therefore seems to me to be an essential element of the pharmacist's responsibilities. The verification system required investments at various levels. First, manufacturers had to physically adjust their production lines to apply the 2D barcode and develop software to manage and charge these codes in the system. Then distributors have to adapt their software to connect them to the verification system and purchase scanners. The industry must develop the software system in consultation with the European Medicines Verification Organisation and the Belgian Medicines Verification Organisation. Finally, pharmacists must purchase the scanners and have their software adjusted. The FMD provides for a long transition period. In combination with the average lifespan of a scanner of about four years, this allows pharmacists to purchase a 2D compatible model when a scanner is renovated. The scheme is designed in such a way as to ensure a fair distribution of costs. The pharmacists did not have to contribute to the development of the verification system. That was a big cost that was borne by the manufacturers. I believe that we should not make any changes to this arrangement for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u98	Madam Minister, European legislation does indeed say that the manufacturer must provide for the adjustments. We also fully agree that this benefits public health. However, as far as the transitional period is concerned, I believe that you have made a mistake. From one moment to the next, the linear barcodes have been replaced by the URL codes that cannot be read by the scanners. It is therefore absolutely not correct to say that there is a three-year transitional period, because the pharmacists were standing with their backs against the wall. They had to immediately purchase another scanner and they had to carry the implementation of the software themselves. Madam Secretary, I suggest you take another look at that. In a sector that is already struggling, a difference of EUR 1,500 is significant.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u99	I'll check it out. What I've answered is based on information I've been given. There may be more accurate information on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic096x.u100	Those unique barcodes couldn't be read. In addition, the tarification centres already pass a status the following month, showing that a certain percentage of unique barcodes was not read. If the pharmacist is left with the option of investing, there is a risk that the funds will not be paid out.
