ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u1	Mr President, Minister, at the end of November you replied to my question about the negotiations with China to reopen exports of pigmeat, that further consultations were planned. In the meantime, we're a good two months away. In addition, I also hear from Flanders, and my province, Limburg, growing concern about the growing population of boars. Although they are not normally carriers of swine fever, there is a fear of any future infection which they may transmit. I have a number of questions on this subject. First of all, have you had a new meeting with the Chinese government? What was the outcome of that meeting on pigmeat exports and was there room for possible regional authorisation? Secondly, where are you in the negotiations to reopen the market with other countries which have imposed an embargo on Belgian pigmeat? Thirdly, do you have any idea what measures have been taken to prevent wild boar populations in the south of the country from coming into contact with other populations? Finally, the American Plum Island Animal Disease Center claims to have discovered a vaccine for African swine fever. What are the prospects for the availability of this vaccine in our country and do you have any idea what this would cost?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Gijbels, I have continued bilateral contacts to lift the embargo imposed after a fireplace of AVP appeared in our country. Let us not forget that our pig sector remains completely healthy, thanks to the sometimes difficult measures taken since September 2018. On 8 November 2019, I organised a bilateral meeting with the Chinese ambassador in my cabinet. I used this meeting to urge China once again to recognise the principle of zoning and to reopen its markets for the export of Belgian pork from the areas not affected. We continue to put pressure on the Chinese authorities. As far as the other countries are concerned, the BFSA and our diplomatic services continue their efforts. There are 29 countries today that maintain their total embargo on pigmeat exports. With these efforts India, Vietnam, Singapore, Montenegro, Canada and more recently Kazakhstan have lifted their embargo on the basis of the zoning principle. As I have already done, I will continue to appeal to the European Commission. The epidemiological situation in Belgium has stabilised, as you know. For example, no boar that was positive for the virus was found or slaughtered since mid-August 2019. Since that date, only a few more than three-month-old bones of boars were found that were positive for the virus. According to the information I received from the BFSA, our country would be able to recover its "free from AVP" status on this basis by August 2020. However, the issue of dating the bones that were positive for the virus remains subject to the Commission's assessment. I asked for clarification on the reference date. While the situation is stable at the moment, we absolutely must maintain a high level of vigilance. On 29 November 2019, the Council of Ministers approved my proposal to continue the measures introduced in 2019 in 2020 and 2021. Human and financial resources were also approved to improve the bio-safety level at pig farms. For the rest, I would remind you that the management of boars is an exclusive competence of the Regions, as you know. As for your final question, the vaccine developed by the American Plum Island Animal Disease Center requires, as far as I know, further studies. It will therefore be a few years before that vaccine could be available on the market. The same applies, of course, to the cost. The European Commission finances the various research and cooperation projects for the development of a vaccine.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for the efforts you have made and have made. I hear there is an opening on zoning for China, but that has not yet been confirmed. Do I understand correctly that the zoning is not yet applicable? [[Assent]] We will have to wait for the vaccine, but I would have liked to have a further explanation on the zoning for China.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u4	Mr President, Minister, the grouping of employers brings together two or more companies in order to hire one or more workers by employing them alternately or simultaneously in each of the undertakings concerned. The grouping then makes these available to its affiliated companies. The latter are then users. The employer pooling mechanism underwent two changes, one in 2012 and one in 2017. This year, he's celebrating his 20th birthday. To date, there are some 40 employers' groups in Belgium. This system mainly benefits SMEs that do not have sufficient means to hire a full-time employee for certain tasks such as accounting, administrative support, which do not require the presence of a person in the company several days a week. However, this mechanism is struggling to achieve real success. First, because it remains unknown. Secondly, because the members of the group of employers are in solidarity with all the latter's tax and social aid. So everyone is dependent on the whole debt. According to the Union des Classes Moyennes (UCM), legal levers could be devised to remedy these difficulties, for example by creating sufficient provisions from the start to be able to pay the worker. This would allow the group to always have a reserve to pay the person. Minister, is the government planning actions to further inform businesses about this employer pooling mechanism? If so, how? What do you think of the UCM's proposal to put in place legal levers to make the mechanism more attractive? Would you like it to be implemented? Do you intend to take an initiative in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u5	Mr Vanden Burre, we agree. I must remind you, however, that several provisions have been adopted under the previous legislature in order to improve the situation. Thus, the law of 5 March 2017 on feasible and manageable work has modernised the system of employer groups to make it more attractive and accessible to SMEs. This law has simplified the authorisation procedure for which the group of employers must pass with a view to employing workers. Since my colleague the Minister of Employment is no longer required to seek the opinion of the NTC, he can now decide on applications more quickly. Furthermore, the authorisation is now valid for an indefinite period. It's important. As a result of these last amendments to the Act, the maximum threshold for groups was set at 50 workers. So we are talking about SMEs, but we can also talk about very small independents. When we talk about a group of employers, we recall, for example, that the greatest successes in France in this field have been in family farming. In order to make companies aware of the opportunities offered by this reform, the SPF Economy organized a successful colloquium on the grouping of employers in September 2017. We have therefore tried with the SPF to raise awareness among the self-employed and SMEs. I have made a personal commitment to this colloquium, but much remains to be done. For the observation - I will go back to a few figures - is that the scheme is not sufficiently successful today. We have placed the proceedings of the symposium on the website of the SPF Economy, they have been distributed, the symposium is downloadable, a web page is available to companies and independents. At the request of the chambers of commerce, the SPF also organized an information session to raise awareness among their staff of the benefits of sharing resources. The awareness-raising exercise is there. You ask me the question more for form because you know that a government in day-to-day affairs cannot take any initiative in this matter. It's not an offence to call him back. What are the results figures today? There are 34 groups of employers. This means that there is progress. Of these, 18 are located in Wallonia, 10 in Flanders and 6 in Brussels. These groups represent 217 employers. All sectors are concerned. There is not one sector that has not been sensitized and has not activated this type of process. Joint commitments were made by secretaries, experts and accountants. We even find the situation of regional televisions that have hired the same cameramen. So it's very diverse. In view of the varied existence on the ground and in terms of the sectors, I think that the next government will have to raise awareness about how this is going in practice and why it is an added value for these different employers who have joined the system of groups of employers. It is, in my view, by the reality that we can call, through a number of campaigns on social networks and with the stakeholders, the employers to take the step because the concern is that it is not yet accepted in the mindsets. The UCM's proposal to require employer groups to have sufficient provisions to be able to pay the worker raises reservations in me. However, you know that I am generally in line with the UCM, but in this case this could be a brake because it generates new obligations that would be imposed on employers. However, I am not opposed to an exchange of views on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u6	Minister, thank you. I share with you the relevance of this system. I think it is a system that needs to be made more widely known. As you said: for smaller structures, it is really extremely useful. This can also create quality employment in different sectors. I am not going to go back in detail on the proposals. I think it's a job that needs to be done. We are in any case very interested in working on this subject. We will certainly come back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u7	Minister, in 2018, almost 34% of the self-employed in Belgium were women. In 2007, this was only 30,6%. Female self-employed workers are therefore still in the minority, but they are taking steps forward. During the previous legislature, the government drew up a plan to stimulate female entrepreneurship, including an extension of maternity rest. A barometer for female entrepreneurship was also introduced within the FPS Economy. In addition, this was subsidised through a call for project proposals. The aim was to promote the formation of self-employed women and women who wanted to start up business. Indeed, measures are needed to further increase the number of self-employed women. This is an important objective that we must all endorse. I have drawn up a number of questions on this subject and I would like to refer to the written version I have submitted. I probably will not be able to listen to the answer because I am also expected in the Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate, but I hope that positive results can be presented. Thank you for your efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u8	Mr President, Minister, women's entrepreneurship in Belgium is indeed an important subject on which we have already asked several times. Last Sunday, International Women's Rights Day was celebrated. On this occasion, the Diane Network, which federates some 3,500 entrepreneurs within the Union of the Middle Classes (UCM), conducted the survey on this topic, especially at the level of the independents and the liberal professions. Its answers are based on two observations: in the long term, there has been a slight improvement but with stagnation in recent years. More precise figures from INASTI show that the number of independent women in Belgium increased from 341,000 in 2013 to 389,000 at the end of 2018. In the last year of the study, their number has actually increased by 9,900 units. At the same time, however, the male self-employed also made progress. Proportionally, the population of independent women increased by 0.9 per cent over the period, from 34 per cent to 34.9 per cent. If we limit the analysis to the main independents, we are almost seeing a status quo. From 34.2% in 2012, women's share rose to 34.26% in 2018. So there is still work, even though some things have already been done in recent years. As the Diane Network also says, we still face the same difficulties. First of all, there is the cultural factor: in families, women are less responsible than men. Women must also be made aware of entrepreneurship from an early age, from the beginning of the school career, and encouraged to move towards more technical occupations as well. As for the earnings of independent women, the wage gap compared to independent men remained the same. In 2018, the average net working income of the self-employed as a main earner was almost 33 000 euros for men and just under 23 000 euros for women, or 10,000 euros of difference, as in 2012. This is unacceptable! There is absolutely no reason to have a difference. Minister, at this stage, can we now, in committee, take stock of the federal action plan to encourage women's entrepreneurship? What measures would you like to include in the agreement of a next government? I am well aware that we are in business, but what would you imagine as strong measures to remedy these problems, which we still think are very pressing?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u9	Mr President, Mrs Dierick, Mr Vanden Burre, the next table of data for 2019 will be made available by the end of 2020. The 2019 edition, which covers 2018, already provides a certain amount of information. Women account for 35% of the self-employed and helpers or 389.440 self-employed. Their growth, in relative numbers, is higher every year than that of men. For example, the number of self-employed women increased by 3.3 % in 2018, compared to 2.2 % in the male population. The liberal professions and trade sectors have the largest number of entrepreneurs. It is clear that entrepreneurs and independents deserve our support more. That's why I organized a program in October 2017 that was able to support four women winners as part of a call for projects to promote women's entrepreneurship. Each project received a grant of €70,000 over three years. This grant is largely based on the principle of coaching: how to support a woman who wants to take the step of entrepreneurship? The results of the various projects clearly demonstrate added value in this area. This type of initiative will need to be encouraged, and I have asked my administration to prepare a new call for projects and to examine the possibilities of launching it during regular business, given that there was a similar program a few years ago. Mrs Dierick, on the representation of women in administrative bodies of the order and institutions, I would remind you that I have no control over these bodies. They shall be elected by their members. We can therefore welcome the positive developments seen in the overwhelming majority of them. This is indeed the case at the level of the institute of automotive experts, real estate agents, accountants and tax specialists, psychologists. In the latter case, today there are even more women than men in the plenary assembly, as I would point out. The situation is stable for accountants and tax advisers. It is hoped that the situation will improve over the next few years within the Order of Architects, where progress in this area remains desirable. Of course, for those who wish to do so, Mr President, I would like to make available the details of the figures and the breakdowns in this respect. The SPF Economy will examine, in its next SME Financing Survey, whether significant differences in access to finance are reported by independent entrepreneurs, given their gender. I've had some information that's going in that direction. It is sometimes more complicated for an independent to obtain credit than for an independent. We are going to objectiveize this element. Based on these results, we may need to hold additional consultations with the financial sector, if necessary. This will indeed be a point to be put to the action of the next government. As you said, and I thank you for being objective in this regard, it is true that we have been able to work on women's entrepreneurship. There is obviously, as we know, a considerable margin of progress. I would also like to say that, in the statistics, a large part of the independents choose to be complementary rather than primary. I believe that here too, in relation to the progress we will have to make on the status of complementary self-employed people, we will probably be able to mobilise more female entrepreneurship. But I also want to continue to rely on the networks of women entrepreneurs or women entrepreneurs, such as "100 000 entrepreneurs". I found in these networks a lot of dynamism, enthusiasm, sparks and passion to develop female entrepreneurship. We need to encourage it more in STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics), where the deficit is significant. As part of the action to be taken by the next government, there are still challenges, although - as I have given in the figures - the number of self-employed people is growing faster than the number of self-employed, which is an encouraging sign.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u10	Minister, I would like to highlight a few points in your answer that I find important. Indeed, the cultural aspect must not be neglected: it is essential to highlight women entrepreneurs in a series of sectors where they are not expected to be such as STEM, technical trades and computer science. From an early age, the shortage of women, whether in courses or in higher education, is growing. Women must be able to be imagined in these roles, as well as in the promotion of entrepreneurship, the economy, whether at the federal or regional level. You mentioned the program you conducted in 2017. Will it be possible to carry out a similar project in day-to-day business? If we need Parliament's support for this, we will support this type of project, as we have always supported measures to promote women's entrepreneurship. Finally, access to credit is a real concern that it is important to objectify. In the feedback we receive, we see that this is a real problem. If a contractor requests credit, it is less likely that it will be successful than if it is an entrepreneur. There is, of course, no reason for this to happen. This is a project on which we will focus and which we will develop quickly in discussions at the federal level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u11	Mr Vanden Burre, I would like to bounce back on something you have raised. A few days ago, I received members of the Markant network, whose project includes a component dedicated to raising awareness among young people - not only rhetorical students, but also primary schools. To this end, small booklets have been printed for schools. The idea is to make students understand that they could become entrepreneurs later. It is obviously beautiful as an approach, since young people are thinking about a future career choice. In the same vein, I have met a lot of young women who have opted for entrepreneurial student status. Moreover, I asked for a gender-based calculation to be prepared to see if this status has mobilized more young women than can be seen from the statistics on their older women. I will soon have the numbers, which I will pass on to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u12	Mr Erik Gilissen is absent because of illness. His question No. 55003228C is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u13	Mr Minister, farmers are concerned because the budget discussions at European level have led to a firm reduction in agricultural subsidies. In addition, there would be a shift from Western European farmers to large, often industrial farms in Eastern Europe. For our agricultural sector, the decline in the budget, together with the shift from West to East, would mean a loss of 11%. In addition, higher requirements are imposed on farmers in the context of greening and sustainability, for which no additional funding is provided. Our agricultural sector is dependent on exports and must be able to compete with other countries, both inside and outside Europe. However, more and more requirements are being imposed, while European aid is not being distributed fairly between the different Member States. This, of course, jeopardises the competitiveness of our farmers. Minister, what advice have you given to Charles Michel, President of the European Council, and to colleagues in the European Parliament, to protect Belgian agriculture? Do you expect problems for our farmers with the plans as they stand? If so, what problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u14	Mrs Gijbels, you are asking an important question. As I have already said openly, I am genuinely concerned that the adoption of the budget proposal currently before us in the European Council would be a real disaster for our farmers. The agricultural organizations I have received share that fear. The quality of the food of Belgian and European consumers is also at stake. Belgium has about 70,000 farmers, some of whom you know. The proposal on the table of the European Council could lead to a reduction in aid in the order of EUR 1 360 per year for each of them, and this is only about direct aid. We cannot accept that. Belgium has taken a position on the Agriculture section of the CAP reform at the European Agriculture Council of 27 January 2020. On 19 February 2020 I met Prime Minister Sophie Wilmès. It is aware of the many risks, including to our agriculture. Belgium will have to be a front in this respect with the other agricultural Member States defending a strong CAP, such as France, Spain or Ireland and perhaps all Western European countries. I repeat that I am opposed to maintaining the mechanism of external convergence. It is a mechanism for harmonising financial assistance granted per hectare in the various Member States of the European Union. This is an extremely sensitive aspect for our farmers. After all, labour and land costs are high in our country. To refuse to maintain the mechanism of external convergence is simply a question of fair competition between Member States. In terms of the potential impact of EU trade agreements on the competitiveness of the Belgian agricultural sector, Europe must, of course, remain very attentive to the consequences of these agreements. That is why I have repeatedly pointed out to you personally that I am opposed to the Mercosur agreements. Finally, it is also important to reiterate that, within the framework of free trade agreements, European health standards for imported products or animal welfare standards within the European Union remain in place. In Belgium, too, we closely monitor the correct application of that principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u15	Minister, you really see the seriousness of what is on the table and its consequences. That's what I like to hear. I hope that you will convey these views with equal fire to your colleagues in Europe and that they will defend our interests. It is indeed important for our farmers to be able to compete fairly, otherwise we will not be able to put our own products on our own plate for long. You have mentioned several aspects with which I fully agree. Another point that deserves attention is the abuse and even fraud of agricultural dossiers, especially in southern Europe. They also need to be addressed permanently, because a lot of millions of people are being used in the wrong way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u16	Mrs Gijbels, my position has always been the same since I became Minister. This is not, therefore, a new point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u17	Mr President, Minister, the Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba announced in December 2018 its arrival in Belgium, in the region of Liège, near the airport. This is expected to take place in the first half of 2021. Although jobs should be created – despite conflicting announcements about the precise number of jobs to be filled by Alibaba and some Belgian ministers – fears remain about the effects of such an establishment on local and local businesses. Indeed, the former French Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, Mr. Mounir Mahjoubi, and the Attac association felt, at the end of last year, that Amazon is removing far more jobs than it creates. Although Amazon does not have exactly the same model as Alibaba, it must be noted that they share many peculiarities. Thus, according to the two protagonists, Amazon would destroy two jobs for one created. A 2016 study concludes the same ratio regarding the situation in the United States. Moreover, regarding the jobs created, the Watching Alibaba platform points out that "the imposed cadences are very sustained, the workers receive orders in their helmets, given by robots, every 15 seconds. What will be the quality of these jobs? These are not jobs that we want, it would be much smarter to promote Walloon SMEs." Minister, to what extent do you estimate the impact of the arrival of Alibaba in Liège on local and local businesses? Were they consulted when the Belgian authorities exchanged with the management of the multinational? What would you say to the Watching Alibaba collective, which believes that there is a risk of creating jobs with deplorable working conditions at the expense of quality local jobs? In the face of, among other things, Alibaba's ultra-competitive practices, have any measures been taken to protect Belgian SMEs? If not, would you consider doing so? Finally, would it not be wise to conduct a real impact study as some collectives demand, such as Watching Alibaba or the Citizens' Committee of Liège Airport?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u18	Mr President, Mr D'Amico, thank you for putting this important issue before Parliament. However, part of your question is about regional matters. I shall therefore reply only to the question of the federal aspect. First of all, it must be recognized that electronic commerce is not born with Alibaba. You also mentioned Amazon. We're not going back. We will not change the consumer's habits. It would also be interesting to see, on the basis of the overall purchases of a household, what the average share of income is now devoted to purchases via e-commerce. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u19	Maybe at home. But you don't have a computer. I'm kidding! There is an evolution and I will ask the SPF Economy to consider a study on this. To get back to your question, your concern for trade and SMEs is also one of my top priorities. We must support local trade because it generates jobs, user-friendliness and quality. At regional level, a whole range of measures have been taken in this area, as well as we are also taking the necessary measures to support our SMEs. I have met a number of organisations that are setting up new types of "eco-equitable" e-commerce platforms and refer to Belgian SMEs and artisans, in particular to promote quality and encourage short circuits. I therefore think that everyone has a place in e-commerce. What I can tell you about these e-commerce giants is that they will create jobs in Liège – and that is why they are welcomed. However, they will not be able to afford anything. I would like to remind you of the legislation that I submitted with respect to the amendment of the Code of Economic Law, which really establishes a regime for the protection of SMEs and self-employed persons in the face of abusive practices and behaviour by players with excessive market power. I would like to draw your attention to this legislation, because it allows us today to break out of the logic of the pot of land against the pot of iron and, in this way, to fight effectively in this direction and to punish multinationals who commit abuses of economic dependence, invent abusive contractual terms and resort to misleading and aggressive market practices. Today, the Belgian Competition Authority, the Economic Inspectorate, the Commission des clauses abusives, the courts and tribunals can intervene in order to guarantee fairness in commercial relations. The various chapters of this Act will come into force throughout the year. It's a plus. I would therefore like to send you the document. Finally, Mr President, there is another aspect that I do not wish to avoid. Alibaba and Amazon are very good, but tax fairness is also needed. We should tell them: "Come and settle in with us, but know that we are in favour of a European system that ensures that you are taxed very quickly, on the basis of where the products arrive." In short, we must put an end to this system where e-commerce would not be imposed in the same way as the small trader. It is no longer possible to continue in this way. We must therefore hope that the new European Commission will take concrete and rapid initiatives in this area if it is to tackle an issue that has been in place since the digital revolution, which has encouraged this inequity that we need to revisit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u20	Minister, I had addressed the Minister for SMEs, so I was well aware that the problem was Walloon for Alibaba. I just wanted to know your concerns about SMEs. I have heard your answers and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u21	Minister, I wanted to take stock of the announcements that were made late last week and early this week by the federal government, but also in coordination with regional governments. In addition to the terrible health impact of the Coronavirus epidemic on our fellow citizens, the economic consequences of this crisis will also be significant. Measures have been announced by the government and I wanted you to go back to them, in any case the main ones, which are dedicated to SMEs and the self-employed in terms of economic unemployment, support in the event of a decline in turnover, postponement of payment of certain contributions or VAT. Which of these measures will be discussed in committee? The Ecolo-Groen Group is obviously in favour of helping SMEs and self-employed people, but also the whole economy to cope with this shock.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u22	Mr. Chairman, initially several questions were joined. The answer I have prepared is therefore quite long.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u23	Given the importance of the subject, you are given a little more time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u24	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre, our situation, although not comparable to that of Italy, involves very strong measures in the field of public health and the protection of Belgians. In this committee, we look at and act economically. I shall therefore confine myself only to this aspect, although in a number of cases the health of our self-employed is obviously in question. We wanted to work very quickly and anticipate this for a wide range of sectors that were affected very quickly, including import-export companies with China or other affected countries. This is also the case in the hotel and horeca sectors, tourism, taxis, events, cultural and sports sectors. All these sectors suffer enormously. The cancellations are obviously legion. It was therefore important that we could set up a task force very quickly. Therefore, as of 6 February 2020, it was on its feet to work with the stakeholders and representatives of companies or self-employed in the various sectors, in order to have exchanges on the measures to be produced with the various professional federations and also with a view to communicating the information. That is why, together with my colleague Mrs Muylle, we have also put on-line information on the SPF Economie website as well as a green number available to businesses very quickly. As you indicated, Kern has adopted a series of measures, a ten-point plan to support our economic operators. The first two measures concern the recognition of VOCID-19 as a ground, as the case may be, for temporary unemployment for force majeure and temporary unemployment for economic reasons. This measure was essential and was adopted in order to preserve the employment of the sectors affected by the crisis in order to avoid redundancies or even bankruptcies. These include cases where some workers are no longer able to appear, for example due to quarantine. Enterprises affected by a decline in their clientele or their supply, and hence their activity, can now resort to temporary unemployment for economic reasons. A third measure concerns payment plans for employer social contributions, to be agreed with the ONSS. This measure is also within the competence of my colleague Nathalie Muylle. The fourth, fifth and sixth measures, under the competence of my colleague Alexander De Croo, Minister of Finance, concern payment facilities in the areas of VAT, business discount and taxes: personal income tax (IPP) and corporate tax. The seventh measure concerns facilities for reducing the advance payments of the self-employed. Since the reform of the method of calculating social contributions in 2015, the self-employed person has been able to adjust his payments according to the evolution of his financial situation. If, in the course of the year, he or she considers that his or her income is lower than that which was the basis for calculating the premium on the notice of maturity, he or she may request to pay reduced contributions. On March 5, I told the social insurance funds that the impact of coronavirus on activity is sufficient to grant an automatic reduction. We have reported this again officially on the Intranet. As I said in the media, it is not necessary to add difficulty to difficulty and administrative burdens to an already complicated situation. The eighth measure of the plan concerns the deferral and dispensation of the social contributions of the self-employed, in the same way, by simple demand, pointing out that the self-employed and his company are suffering the impact of the coronavirus. The Social Insurance Fund will receive their application and grant them, as the self-employed may require, either a one-year extension of the deadline or a waiver. This measure covers, at this stage, social contributions for the first two quarters of 2020. In the event of a postponement, the fund can already guarantee that the self-employed person remains covered at 100% in the meantime, in particular in the sickness and disability insurance, and that he will be entitled, at the time of payment, to a cancellation of all the late payments – which was the least of the things. The exemption from contributions will also be subject to accelerated processing by INASTI. Our system must be as flexible, as fluid as possible to meet the challenges faced by our SMEs and self-employed. The ninth measure deals with obtaining a replacement income for the self-employed: the famous bridge right. It is another acquittal of the past legislature. An independent person who carries on business as a principal and who demonstrates a temporary cessation of business, in this case the discontinuance related to VOCID-19, may benefit from the bridge right regime on the ground of forced cessation of activity because he or she would be quarantined or because his or her employees are quarantined, his or her deliveries are interrupted, or his or her activity decreases and his or her continuation becomes indeficit or unsustainable. I would like to point out that the amount of financial aid is EUR 1 266.37 per month in the case of non-reimbursement of families and EUR 1 582.46 in the case of dependent families. The system needed to be adapted and the bridge law also needed to be adapted in order to make them more flexible and more responsive to the reality of the self-employed, particularly those currently facing the effects of coronavirus on their activity. There are already! The current legislation allows them to apply for a financial benefit only after a one-month stay. That's what we wanted to change by reducing it to a week. You asked how to support the independents and the device. You know the government is in business. We have therefore analysed the situation. I have tabled a bill on this matter. Anyone who wants to co-sign it! We will be asking for urgency on Thursday because this provision must be adopted as quickly as possible in order to make available the replacement income requested. I have also asked the caisses for the possibility of pre-registration of applications for the independents concerned. The faster we adopt the texts, the faster the measures related to the bridge right and the amounts I have quoted can be released. We need to hurry! I will call on Parliament as a whole on Thursday to mobilise for a quick vote on these matters. Contacts with INASTI and the caisses are already being made so that the funds are released as soon as possible as the measure is voted. It is important that we act effectively in favour of our independents. I am counting on you, Mr. Vanden Burre, as well as all the groups. Mr President, I come to a tenth measure which deals with benevolence - very normal - in the execution of federal public contracts, provided that it is proved that the delay in their execution has its origin, directly or indirectly, in the VOCID-19. Thus, the federal state will not apply penalties and will not impose sanctions on suppliers, businesses and independents who are late. That is what this statement of measures is all about, as brief as possible. Thank you, Mr President, for giving me a little time to go back in detail and synthetically on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u25	Minister, thank you very much. It seems to me that it is important to give you the necessary time to explain the various measures taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u26	Mr President, I also think it was essential to detail all these measures. I will not react to all that has been said. We had already indicated that, on the principle of encouraging and helping, we were obviously very much in favour of such actions. With regard to the text you have announced, Minister, I do not know to what extent it is already available and searchable. Perhaps we will be able to read about it tomorrow, but at least we would like to see what the arrangements are.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u27	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u28	All right, so we can look at it. We are also very proactive in this area. As you have said, the urgency is real. As we do not need to be convinced of this, we will work very constructively on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u29	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, another equally interesting subject that concerns entrepreneurs. You put this topic forward during an outing in the Echo on employee share ownership with the boss of the EASI company. I had the opportunity to visit this company several years ago with my colleague from Groen, Meyrem Almaci. The operation of this SME – an important SME – is very interesting. However, as you pointed out in this article, the principle of employee ownership is in fact difficult to take off in Belgium. Only 5% of Belgian companies offer a form of employee shareholding while the European average is slightly above 5%. In addition, Belgian figures are falling, as it comes from 11% in 2009. France, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands are at the top of the European ranking for this type of system. While the principle of stock options is well developed in Belgium, it mainly concerns senior executives and company managers for whom this is part of the wage package, also linked to stock quotations. This is not the goal of environmentalists, let us be clear. Employee share ownership as we wish to encourage it is aimed at all employees, from the top to the bottom of the scale. We wish to encourage it within SMEs, and not to encourage the stock options system in the context of publicly traded multinationals. I wanted to clarify the debate and the stakes. We also believe that a reform for employee ownership, which concerns all workers and within SMEs, is encouraged. Reform is needed to make the system actually more attractive, as you suggest. Could you repeat the brakes that you want to lift – and that you described in an interview, but I think it is interesting to represent them in a parliamentary committee. You also mentioned measures that you would like to take and legislation that would be ready. Once again, our Ecolo-Groen Group is very interested in discussing these proposals, while knowing that we have clear guidelines on this issue that we already have the opportunity to deal with and analyse. We wish to move forward on this issue. Today's morning is constructive and it is a subject that is very mobilising because it is linked to the emancipation of workers. These are the points we are interested in in this process of employee ownership, namely: the emancipation of workers, participation in decision-making and emancipation at work. We will be constructive in the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u30	Mr Vanden Burre, in politics, there are issues that we are dealing with because it is our responsibility and there are other issues that we are dealing with because we find them exciting. Shareholding by employees is a subject that I am passionate about. That is why I commissioned a study under the last legislature to look at all the obstacles and to examine why some countries were doing better than we did in this area. I have met Mr Curaba, whom you have quoted, and others to raise their awareness and to see at the legal and field level what the brakes are, which are sometimes of a different nature. Philosophically, it's exciting. Employee share ownership is the coffin of class struggle. Imagine that all workers and employees become their own bosses in the company. It is a bit caricatural but it is to give an employee the opportunity to become the boss of his company. Mr. Curaba has set up this company and will become a minority in terms of shares in his own company. And what is true for the employees must be true for the workers. The fact of giving each employee the opportunity to own shares of his company is either the coffin of the class struggle, or the culmination of socialism according to Marx or real socialism. We could find an answer that would make us join us on the subject. Our legal framework is not sufficiently adapted to the process. Comparisons with other European countries, moreover, are not based on employee ownership but on the stock-option system. The comparison is therefore distorted. However, we note a decline in stock options in Belgium. First, agreement should be reached on the data used for these statistical comparisons. The aim is to make sure that the scheme is flexible, that it allows, on a voluntary basis, an SME regardless of its legal status – even if it has no more than ten employees – to do so. Beyond the question of property, dear to Mr D'Amico, there is the question of investment. Because it's not just about owning it, it's about investing in your business to be able to own it. It's a growth factor. Companies that operate on the basis of employee share ownership are growing as there is more investment in these companies from employees. It is necessary to go beyond the system which relies solely on stock options. In addition, it is currently mainly public limited liability companies that can use it. The possibility of sale with discount is reserved for them. This system must be opened up to other legal forms of business, be it the SCRL or other arrangements. We need to make the system more attractive. Today, it is capped, in terms of return, at 750 euros per year. This is not attractive, especially since it cannot be combined with a pension savings plan. This needs to be revised upwards. We were able to identify and list a whole series of brakes that are extremely technical. In this article, I made it clear that I am keeping this list at the disposal of the next government negotiation because I would like to see a development of employee ownership in this next government agreement. This next government agreement may be supported by Mr D'Amico, given the conversation we have here today. And if we're going to continue the exchange for that purpose, I'm willing to pursue it, Mr. D'Amico.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u31	Mr. D'Amico did not ask a question. The speaking time has already been exceeded by four minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u32	Mr President, time is money too. I therefore hope that this may become a priority for the next government to develop employee ownership and to reduce the technical obstacles that prevent us today from developing it in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u33	Mr Minister, I thank you for this philosophical response that first asked some of my colleagues. As environmentalists, what we consider to be very interesting on the principle of employee ownership is that every worker can emancipate himself or herself and participate in the decision-making process. This is what we see in a model that already exists, certainly in a very limited way, and which we also support very much. This is the cooperative model. It is this model that we would like to follow and extend to other structures such as SMEs and CRLs. That is why it seems important to us to open it to all workers, that everyone have the opportunity to do so – even if not everyone will – as in cooperatives. Indeed, as you said, we do not rely at all on the stock-option system. The statistics show – and I agree with you – that, in the multinationals listed on the stock exchange, it is a remuneration for executives. Point on the line. It is not this method at all that we wish to encourage. We will be at your disposal to discuss it, possibly on the basis of texts. This subject is really complex. Several technical obstacles exist. A law has been passed in France, in order to further promote employee ownership as we hear it positively. Beyond too philosophical considerations, this issue is important because it can improve the quality of employment. Finally, the EASI consultancy company was cited, which lends itself well to employee ownership. It will also have to be imagined in a more industrial structure, with workers and a more hierarchical organization. Of course, it is much more complicated, but it is an interesting challenge. So it's a case to dig.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u34	We can talk about Marx as long as you want, this subject is passionate about me, you stressed it at times. As far as ownership is concerned, I agree with Mr Vanden Burre on cooperatives; we could be taken over. On the other hand, where I am not, because I have personally lived with a shareholding of this type at Caterpillar, it is because part of my monthly salary has to be invested in shares, and if the share falls, my salary falls. I've been through this and I can talk about it easily. I will never agree with you, minister. The action, you can make it fluctuate; you can do what you want! Which means my salary will suffer. No! I will never agree with you on this point of view. But as far as cooperatives are concerned...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now turn to the questions to Minister De Backer. Mr Gilissen is absent because of illness, his questions. 55003347C and 55003793C are therefore postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 55003585C by Mrs Depraetere was also postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u36	Mr President, Minister, Proximus and Port of Antwerp have signed an agreement for the Digital Scheldt project. As part of this project, Proximus will develop a private 5G network, which can be a driving factor for innovation and digital transformation in the port of Antwerp. During a six-month pilot phase, several concrete applications will be tested to provide a better understanding of the possibilities of 5G in an industrial context. Not only does Proximus set up such a 5G network in the port of Antwerp, Orange also did the same. Both do so with a temporary license. It is striking that Proximus has chosen Nokia as a supplier and not for his partner Huawei. This is a more than striking decision, as Proximus has already done tests with Huawei in the past on setting up its own 5G network. Why did Proximus Nokia choose to partner in this pilot project over Huawei? What were the main criteria for choosing a supplier for this project? What concrete applications will be tested during the trial period? Will this also result in specific consumer applications or is it just industrial applications? During the pilot project in the port of Antwerp, will Proximus cooperate with Orange or two separate initiatives? What is the cost of this 5G pilot project? Who's gonna fund this? Are there other similar test projects on the agenda? If so, where?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u37	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, the Orange project is independent of the activities of Proximus in Port of Antwerp. Orange is developing a kind of test network, while Proximus in Port of Antwerp deals with a private network. Those are two different ways of working. The project De Digitale Schelde in the port of Antwerp should actually allow us to effectively test innovations and innovations in the port of Antwerp. It is about driving tugs and better coordination of shipping, but also about different processes in the port that can be connected to each other. This should lead to efficiency gains and a better analysis of the information. The use of drones also makes this possible, for example. So there are a lot of applications to think of, which are also listed in that project. All your other questions are part of the company's strategic, technical or financial choices. Since that information is confidential, I cannot answer your questions about it at this committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u38	Is my question, Minister, whether there are any other tests also confidential?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u39	Mrs. Vindevoghel, I am not in the cockpit of the three telecom operators. Where appropriate, operators will also announce this, as they would like to advertise it. We'll see that show up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u40	Mr Minister, I noticed that the sector itself, I am talking about Alphabet, Facebook and Amazon, was a requesting party to regulate deep and cheap fakes. We've known deep fakes for a long time. Gollum and Forrest Gump are very well-known examples. Today a lot of deep fakes are just made at home. They're meant to be funny movies. I saw another example of a cheapfake this week in The Ideal World. The images were delayed and therefore it seemed as if the speaker had smoked something. These movies are usually meant to be fun and funny, but they can also be meant badly. A bill on revenge porn was passed in this House this week. That is also related to this. Minister, are your services familiar with such matters and are there any complaints about them? How do we handle it best? Do we choose the best course of self-regulation and tell the Internet giants to deal with it themselves, or do you think that a legislative framework is needed? In the U.S. state of Virginia, such a framework has been created. Is it necessary to have a legal framework in Belgium or Europe? Is there, perhaps, enough legislation today to deal with such phenomena? There's legislation on portrait law. The legislation on revenge porn might provide a solution. Maybe there are other things. Do you think that there is enough legislation to deal with this phenomenon today?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u41	Mr President, Mr Verduyckt, thank you for your question. Of course we know the deep-fake system. People who fall victim to a deep fake can file a complaint with the federal police today. I do not currently have figures on the number of complaints. You may be able to get them from Koen Geens or Pieter De Crem. Maybe they have more information about that. There are effectively a number of legal bases on which deep-fakes can be addressed. A first is a simple one, namely an infringement of portrait law. It is a personal right that can be exercised in this area. The infringements thereof are subject to the protection of privacy. You yourself referred to the draft law on the fight against revenge porn, which is currently being discussed in the Chambers of Justice. I absolutely welcome the proposal. There is a need for stricter action in this area. The fight against illegal content in general on the Internet is a complex and very often also an international problem. In this respect, we have tried to take a number of measures. A first measure is to try to act in the way people go on the Internet via the large social networks, platforms, internet providers and hosts, by having content removed as soon as possible. The large digital platforms have also recently decided to cooperate with them. At the same time, they have launched a plea for new legislation on deep-fake videos. However, they must also show their own responsibility and not just look at the legislator. They must also take initiatives on their own platform. An initiative in this area was already taken in October 2018, in particular through a kind of charter. The large digital platforms and the advertising industry then launched a code of conduct to combat disinformation, including deep-fake videos. By the end of 2020, the Commission should carry out an evaluation of the effectiveness of that code of conduct. A number of intermediaries on the Internet can also, of course, be contacted by means of a directive on electronic commerce, which dates back to 2000. The review of this digital services act has now been announced by the Commission. In this respect, a number of voluntary measures and a number of mandatory measures should be considered. Of course, there is always a balance between fundamental rights, such as freedom of expression, humour and satire, and a real violation of privacy and attempts to disseminate disinformation. This balance, which is always there in this area, must of course be made at political level, which is the balance between fundamental rights and any measures that will have to be taken around the Internet. So there is already a European initiative. We are looking at ways in which we can agree to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic132x.u42	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the answer. I agree that in such situations the difficulty is always to determine how far to go. Nevertheless, it is a subject that we must also monitor at political level. After all, things could go wrong. Thank you for the answer. We'll keep following the file.
