ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u2	The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] : Colleagues, as we paid tribute to Samuel Paty, brutally murdered last week, France was attacked in his heart this morning in Nice. Indeed, we learned with astonishment that a stabbing attack had taken place at around 9 a.m. this Thursday in and around the Basilica of Our Lady of the Assumption in Nice. According to available information, at least three people died, two women and one man, and several were injured. An investigation is under way for murder and attempted murder in connection with a terrorist enterprise. Other reports also come to us, referring to stabbing attacks in Avignon, but also at the French consulate in Saudi Arabia. Ladies and gentlemen, the clear aim of the perpetrators of attacks and violence is to destroy individual freedoms and democracy. We must strongly condemn this fanaticism that feeds terrorism. It is the very negation of humanity, this humanity imbued with differences and, therefore, with respect. It is therefore an elementary duty and an imperative of a moral nature that our Assembly again and again denounces the ideologies that contribute to so much suffering and crime. Nothing can weaken our determination to meet the challenges of violence and fundamentalism. We who want to continue to defend democracy must continue to oppose anything that induces hatred between people. These acts of terror are intended to attack the foundations of our civilisation: tolerance, the ideal of justice, the right to be different, freedom of expression. On behalf of the Chamber of Representatives, I have expressed my deepest condolences to my colleague from the French Assembly. I have informed him that the Belgian people are particularly sympathetic to the French people in these terrible circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the government shares the sympathy of the victims of the horrific attack in Nice and in other cities. In 2016, Nice was hit hard by extremist violence. I have also expressed our condolences and our support for President Macron and his government. Our thoughts go first of all to the relatives of the victims, their friends and family, but also to the entire French people, who, as you have just said, are facing a terrorist attack for the second time in a short time. Let me say quite clearly here today that we will never accept the use of violence in our society. It is a struggle to protect our most fundamental freedoms. Values that are dear to us all and on which we will never admit. Values that guarantee both freedom of expression and freedom of religion. In our Western society, these two values should not be opposed to each other. On the contrary, they must be able to coexist peacefully. Yes, they must even complement and strengthen themselves so that everyone can express his thoughts and live his faith in complete freedom and in a climate of peace. This is our society and we will defend it with all our strength. We will defend this open and tolerant society alongside France, a country that has taught us freedom, equality and fraternity. The Enlightenment has taught us that we respond to the conflict by words and not by violence, that from the shock of ideas the light comes forth. It's a battle we'll fight together. It is a battle that we will win so that, as the French President rightly said, fear changes sides.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u4	Thank you very much. Let us now respect a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u5	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 October 2020, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 October 2020, you received an amended agenda for today's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u6	I have received amendments to the bill (MM. Gilles Vanden Burre and Jean-Marc Delizée, Catherine Fonck, Evita Willaert and Marie-Colline Leroy, MM. Benoît Piedboeuf and Christophe Bombled and Mrs Florence Reuter) amending the Royal Decree of 20 July 1971 instituting a maternity insurance scheme for self-employed persons and assisting spouses, designed to take account of the first day of effective cessation of incapacity for work, No 1365/7. I have received amendments to the legislative proposal (Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mr Jean-Marc Delizée, Mrs Catherine Fonck, Mrs Evita Willaert and Mr Marie-Colline Leroy, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and Mr Christophe Bombled and Mrs Florence Reuter) amending the Royal Decree of 20 July 1971 establishing benefit insurance and maternity insurance for the benefit of the self-employed and assisting spouses in order to enable the invalidity scheme to apply from the first day of effective cessation of activity for incapacity for work, No. 1365/7. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 October 2020, I propose that these amendments be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions. (art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation) In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 October 2020, I propose that these amendments be sent to the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions. (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure) Discussion of the bill will continue in plenary, after consideration of the amendment in committee. The legislative proposal will be discussed in plenary today after discussion of the amendment in committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u7	Madam President, Prime Minister, the situation has become out of control. The avalanche doesn't seem to stop. And, as we know, the days that come will be even worse. We have arrived where we should never have arrived: having to choose who to treat. You must have heard the cry of distress and impotence of the chief doctors of several hospitals. Our hospitals – they say – are no longer able to treat patients. When the other countries decided to reconfinish at a level of cases of VOCID-19 three, four, or even five times lower than that of Belgium, what should be done? We're chipping. Let's try. We take a few measurements almost every day. Prime Minister, changes in measures have taken place seven times over the last ten days in a country of the size of a confetti for the virus. The decision-making lasagna with decisions in scattered order, different from one Region to another, not counting those taken at the level of the communes, creates the misunderstanding of the citizens and therefore everything except accession. Decision-making lasagna creates disorder, discredits measuring devices and, in doing so, contributes to the ineffectiveness of the fight against VOCID-19. Where's the pilot on the plane? It must be you! It's your job! We're going in the wall. You must take back your hand with strong, effective, respected and much more consistent measures. The longer you delay doing so, the longer the restrictions will last, with far greater health and economic consequences. There is an urgent need to provide support to caregivers: arm reinforcement, logistical support, financial support. A proper test must also be used to detect and isolate asymptomatic cases. They are weak links that participate, without knowing it, in the transmission of the virus. I would also like to appeal to Minister Vandenbroucke just now. The situation is too serious to procrastinate. Take your responsibilities!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u8	Madam President, Prime Minister, as we all know today, the cacophony we have witnessed in recent days is only due to the refusal of a single party to see stronger measures implemented across the country. This cacophony not only has made us waste valuable time facing the situation in our hospitals and nursing homes, but has also caused the greatest confusion among our fellow citizens. How do you want them to act as a team today if the policies that lay down the rules they must abide by are not themselves capable of acting as a team? I repeat a simple and dramatic example: the bereaved families in Brussels do not know whether they can meet at fifteen or forty to say goodbye one last time to their deceased relatives, because your ministerial decree does not replace the regional decrees. He's adding to it. The partial confinement that you announced yesterday, Prime Minister, is therefore, with the exception of the famous curfew, only an inventory of the minimum threshold of measures which the Flemish Government has finally accepted, under the pressure of the Northern Democrats of the country, which I would like to thank warmly. As you said yesterday, every citizen has a role to play. Every day counts and every death is one too many deaths. Except that, as you have announced, you will only take drastic action if we see in the coming days that hospitalizations are no longer controlled. Prime Minister, the situation in our hospitals is already out of control. Your Minister of Health saw him with his own eyes yesterday in Liège. Today we are 14 days after the closure of the Horeca and there is an increasing number of hospitalizations. What more do you need to act? Why is France acting and not us? Why didn't you take the necessary measures yesterday, which are implored by the healthcare staff? Why wait for the concertation committee announced tomorrow? How will transfers of patients between hospitals and the provision of emergency care, other than VOCID, be insured in hospitals that are already saturated or that will be saturated in two or three days? Finally, what support are you going to provide in practice to the healthcare staff (...) ?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, these are confusing and unpleasant times. The virus of hatred has struck our French neighbors, and the corona virus is causing a lot of casualties all over the world, especially in our country. There are a lot of questions to ask about this hema, but I would like to confine myself to one question, in particular the question to the Prime Minister to choose fully for unity and for clarity. Our group would like to encourage you to do so, Prime Minister, and you can count on all the Greens at all levels, whatever their responsibilities, to support you in that. Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels have a problem. Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels color red. Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels may have made mistakes. The solution is called Belgium, the solution is called cooperation and unity of command. It is a pity that there has been some uncertainty about this in recent days, but I am very pleased, Prime Minister, that you have done everything you can to rectify it. I think we can no longer afford such misunderstandings or delays. In this sense, tomorrow's Consultative Committee must take that line very clearly. I would also like to address the fellow questioners who come after me, including colleagues from the N-VA, but also colleagues from Wallonia. We can differ on the future of this country, we can have a different view on the state reform, we can even have a different view on social security, but please let us share the same conviction and opinion on the approach to this crisis, in particular that the motto here at the top, l'Union Fait La Force/Share Makes Power, should not be a slogan, but the daily practice. Mr Prime Minister, that is why my question, in fact, is a call to you and also to the Prime Ministers and Ministers, to opt for coordination and to ensure the same measures, from Ostend to Arlen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u10	Madam President, Prime Minister, yesterday you sent a clear message to the Belgians. Our country is going into partial lockdown because the whole country is suffering from the corona virus. It is good that the measures that were already needed last week are now being implemented throughout the country. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also clear why we should do this. I hope you've seen the footage of Minister Vandenbroucke's visit to a Liège hospital. They do not need an explanation from experts to indicate how serious the situation is. Nobody wants that situation to go over to the other hospitals in the country, right? Mr Prime Minister, the question is whether we can still turn the tide. Let's face it, we lost a week. We are already asking far too much of our care staff. Already, people are not in danger of getting the care they need. Prime Minister, one thing is certain. You're not ready for your last press conference or consultative committee. More than ever, it is necessary for all governments in this country to stand in line and remain in line. We do not need four press conferences, colleagues. We only need one. If Angela Merkel can speak on behalf of 16 subgovernments in Germany, our Prime Minister can do this perfectly on behalf of five in our country. Prime Minister, I am glad that you did the same yesterday. One thing I've learned in the past few days: the virus wins by division. Of course, the situation may vary from region to region and it may be sensible to respond to it. Even then, it is very important that everyone is on the same page and remains on the same page. Prime Minister, what are you going to do to avoid the cacophony of the past few days in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u11	Madam President, Prime Minister, this is a serious time. The numbers are alarming and all the lights are red. There are some of these podiums on which we would prefer never to be, and yet today we have the first place at European level in terms of contamination. And we must also report these far too many hospitalizations, more numerous than in March or April last. Just like intensive care and with it, its corollary, ever more deaths. It was unthinkable, and yet, this second wave is worse than the first; in addition to a medical staff at the end of the roll, also affected by the virus, and therefore unable, despite the best will in the world, to cope, to treat in the best conditions possible. Prime Minister, there is a growing number of calls to help health workers, both in the press and when you meet them. The emotion of Minister Vandenbroucke yesterday, when he visited our hospitals in Liège, is without appeal. We have to act. With one voice and one voice! With one voice, Prime Minister! With firmness, determination and simply responsibility. Yesterday, you took back your hand in trying to standardize at national level all the measures taken by the different levels of power. Tomorrow will be a real stress test, and we have no right to error. Mr Prime Minister, are new measures, and let us make it clear, new restrictions, on the agenda of tomorrow's Concertation Committee? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u12	I would like to take this opportunity to say how much we have reviewed the provision of the House and reduced the number of people in the House to comply with the safety instructions. I will therefore ask you to respect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u13	Mr Prime Minister, last week you stressed that this country is at the European summit on the number of tests. Unfortunately, we are indeed at the top of Europe in terms of the highest number of infections and the highest number of hospitalisations. I asked you last week if you could guarantee that all COVID-19 patients could be treated in a hospital in their own country. You did not answer that question. In the meantime, we know that air bridges will be deployed and that Merkel is already being knocked on because it cannot be coordinated at national level. Despite seven months of preparation for this predicted second wave, there are hospitals today that have to prepare disaster phase 3, a phase that doesn't even exist. Your first objective, to safeguard non-corona care, is already in the wastebasket. Hospitals today have to postpone, reject and reject all hyperurgent non-COVID-19 care in order to be able to use more resources and more of the too scarce staff against the virus. My first question is therefore how you will continue to assist the hospitals and the care staff. Secondly, will you ensure fair and consistent enforcement of the measures? If you want the measures to be followed, they must be fair and logical. Talking like "an unjust virus causes injustice" doesn't help. It also helps to fine hard on a bench non-sandwich-eating students and not the hundreds of visitors of shishabars in Brussels. Nor does the fact that a former minister, together with his party chairman, has failed to comply with the rules. Hence my request for proper enforcement. If you want the measures to be complied with, Prime Minister, they must apply to everyone. Also for young people, including immigrants, and especially politicians.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u14	Mr Prime Minister, when it comes to a case like corona, serenity fits. Therefore, you have never seen me push the opposition pedal to the bottom on this matter, because we have to criticise, but we must not oppose each other. We must be partners in tackling these challenges. I believe we are allies who know that the square of education, the economy, mental and physical health and the care sector is the raft on which we must at least let our society float. However, that should not be a race to the highest place on the scaffold at some award ceremony. This week we have seen an example of this, in contrast to the impression that may be given. The measures decided by consensus by the Flemish Government had to have some that were notarially marked with amazement by a ministerial decision, which also happened. This has happened quickly, which means that today we have a shorter period between the proclamation of the agreement and its actual implementation. That is a good thing. In the same spirit, I would like to ask two questions. If new measures are to be imposed, then we must take them. However, we must also examine the extent to which the old measures have been maintained and to what extent they have been complied with. There is no point in introducing new measures if they are not complied with. Prime Minister, to what extent will it be possible, for example, at federal level, to support local police forces in enforcing measures? There is also heavy pressure on the healthcare sector. What measures can your government take in this respect, in addition to what is happening in the Länder? An initiative which is certainly appreciated by us is the adaptation of the nomenclature so that the number of people in testing can be increased, which frees up new hands for other areas in the healthcare sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u15	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is serious. Numbers are increasing from day to day. The exponential curves reach dramatic thresholds, never reached before. Behind these figures are women and men who suffer and struggle, between life and death, in intensive care units, with a nursing staff that is always closer to the point of rupture. Behind these figures, all of us are concerned, via a family member who has been contaminated, via a friend, a neighbour, the child-child-child nurse or even a colleague. This virus blindly strikes all our fellow citizens, regardless of their social condition, region or mother tongue. So it's all together that we have to fight it. In this type of crisis, Prime Minister, it is important that a strong, centralized command unit from the federal government be established. It must have a clear communication, aimed at the whole population. And that's what you did yesterday during your press conference. We encourage you to continue to do so in order to have a basis for common measures across the country. I have two more specific questions for you. Tomorrow, within the framework of the Conciliation Committee, what measures are you still considering? With regard to the policy and strategy of tracing, what do you envisage for the weeks and months ahead, so that we can, at some point, return to a phasing out, in order to avoid a potential third wave?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u16	Prime Minister, you are right, just like the rest of the majority, when it comes to the unity of command. I am sitting here long enough to understand that it is not only the corona crisis that needs to be combated, but also a political game that can win the sympathy of the public. Mr De Croo, I read in the newspaper this morning your words that we need everyone in this fight. Well, I'm a desperate mayor. We have a corona problem. I have rest homes with 30 to 40 infections and a few deaths and 17 absent staff due to contagion. What did I do? I've addressed the federal government. Those who stand here in Parliament with their feet in the clay and are not just there to charm each other, know that there is a problem with the staff. The fire zones have medical workers, who currently have nothing to do. I'm in a fire zone myself. I asked the Home Office if they could help people in our hospitals and visit people, because the hospitals are full of people who can't go home, because there is a lack of home care. I have with me the letter from the Home Office in which I get an agreement for this. I also asked the question to the Public Health Office. Mr Calvo, that is also a federal competence, Mr Vandenbroucke. The FPS Public Health says, "No, you can't do that." So that's called unity of command. At one federal level, people who are at their disposal may be asked to help. The Department of Public Health won't let you do that. Where is our corona commissioner to put that question, to decide on this? Prime Minister, my only question is whether these people can come and help?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u17	Prime Minister, the situation is serious, especially in our hospitals. The hospitals in Liège, Hainaut, Brussels and Flanders have shown intolerable images of people's suffering. Yesterday I heard your proposal to solve the problem by drastically limiting all our social contacts. Obviously, we need to make an effort at this level. You're talking about family contacts, stopping sports activities, stopping swimming pools and cultural activities, but there's one topic you never mention, it's the situation in companies, all this, in the name of the fact that you have to continue to produce, produce, produce and produce. Metro, work, sleep! That is the programme for the next two months. Prime Minister, we are not just machines to produce. In companies, there are also problems. My mailbox explodes with anecdotes and stories of people telling me: "Raoul, I'm at work. I'm tested positive. I suggest my boss not go to work. I'm told, "No, you keep working! This is not the case in all companies, but it is the case in some. I got an e-mail from a worker at Volvo, not a small company. His wife's positive. He goes to the chief and tells him he needs to be quarantined. He can't, because there's got to be production. How long will workers be forced to choose between health and the economy? I already asked you about this last week. Those people who are going to lose 30% of purchasing power are faced with the following dilemma: either they lose from 200 to 300 euros or they respect their 40s. How should they solve it? Prime Minister, how can this equation be solved? In short, a taboo reigns here, since you oppose economy and health, to the benefit of the first. It's not fair: we need to care about both! When will the Social Inspectorate be strengthened in order to enforce the quarantines on the ground? Then, when will we finally give 100 per cent of replacement income so that people can maintain their health?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u18	Prime Minister, the Rules allow you two minutes per speaker for your answer. As there have been ten, you are entitled to twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as I indicated yesterday, the various governments have been intertwining measures over the past few weeks. After telework as a rule, after restricting contacts, after having to close restaurants and hotels, there are now stricter rules in important social domains, such as culture and sport. I think this is a good thing. The result is that we are in a partial lockdown today. A very large part of social life has been shut down today. I think this is absolutely right. In consultation with the prime ministers, we translated this yesterday into a harmonised ministerial decision, published yesterday by the Minister of the Interior, which entered into force at midnight. I would like to thank the colleagues of the regional governments for their cooperation in order to speed this up. As indicated, the sooner those measures could take effect, the better we can protect people, the better we can take care of those who work in care today and are already under enormous workload, the better we can try to remedy that difficult situation. The governments are fighting hand in hand today and must continue to fight hand in hand. It's only by working together that we can fight this virus. We are no longer in a situation where it would be much worse in one part of the country and where the problems in hospitals or in the first line would only occur in one part of the country. That is absolutely not the case. That unity, taking into account the diversity and respect for the different positions that can be taken around the table, is crucial in the coming days and weeks. It is only through that unit and that clarity that we can provide maximum assistance to the aid workers in the coming days and weeks. We see that the pressure on hospitals is increasing day by day. From an absolute point of view, the figures are very worrying. To date, an average of 14,000 cases have been recorded; 550 new hospitalizations have been counted and 67 people have unfortunately died per day. Behind these figures are personal suffering (suffering of families, suffering of friends). If we must continue to follow the figures very closely, human suffering must remain our first focus. If we consider the reproduction figure, we find that this famous R figure has stabilized around 1.4. This means that two sick people contaminate three other people. This figure is too high, even if it is well below the maximum figure recorded in the first wave, since it was 2.6. Nevertheless, it is too high and we must do everything we can to reverse it. I was talking about the reproduction number, but there are so many other figures in which it is quite clear that there should be a decrease. We can only achieve this reduction if we respect the rules. We must not only respect the rules, but also maintain them, today, tomorrow, next week and the coming weeks. If we want to get out of the danger zone, it will be a long-term effort. We all need to realise that we will have to keep the effort we are making today for a while to be able to reduce the figures day after day. That will certainly be one of the subjects of the conciliation committee that will take place tomorrow. Tomorrow's consultation will take place on the basis of scientific advice, on the basis of facts, on the basis of figures. Facts and figures are the only thing on which we can base ourselves to make the right decisions in this crisis. There can be absolutely no discussion that this should be the basis of common decisions. We are doing our utmost to build capacity in hospitals and, first and foremost, in intensive care. Hospitals, services, intensivists work day and night to increase bed capacity and increase from 1,900 to 2,800 units. It is a huge effort, not only in terms of places and equipment, but especially from a human point of view. It is not just a question of beds; there must be sufficient staff to provide the necessary care. Minister Vandenbroucke will be discussing in more detail the measures he intends to introduce to ensure that the capacity of intensive care beds in hospitals can grow. He will also talk about measures in the first line and about mental health care. Mr De Roover, you have asked a question about nomenclature, and Minister Vandenbroucke will answer that too. Mr Dedecker, I am also aware of the problem you are raising with regard to fire-fighting workers. We have contacted both FPS to ensure that these kinds of inconsistencies cannot occur. If we say that we need as many people as possible who can help, then of course we must do everything we can to make it possible for the people who can help to help. I am in constant consultation with my European colleagues. Also this evening there is a video conference with them. It is clear that the whole of Europe is in a storm today and that we must look at how we can share our experiences as much as possible. We see that a number of policy choices are common in different countries, but we also see that some countries sometimes make different choices. Today it is crucial to be able to share experiences with each other to understand what works and what works less well. We will also talk about a European approach in the field of testing and tracing and a European vaccination strategy. We will also talk about European solidarity: we must ensure that if certain countries have deficits, for example in the field of protective equipment, we will not find ourselves once again in a situation where countries are working against each other rather than strengthening each other. It is clear that this European approach and coordination are crucial. No one will be safe in Europe if not everyone is safe. This has become very clear in recent weeks. Thinking that certain countries can find a solution in themselves and should not take account of what is happening in other countries will only plunge us into situations that we have seen in recent weeks, where waves of contamination are moving through Europe. We are also ensuring that the rules are respected. We know that we have made decisions that limit contacts as much as possible, not only in privacy, but also in public space. Police and inspection services are mobilized to intervene. We'll intervene when it's necessary. But above all, beside the rules, besides the fact that the police and other services must intervene, I count on common sense, on the sense of responsibility. I think that everyone now understands why we are asking to limit contacts as much as possible. The choices we make about our contacts are choices that have an impact on the lives of vulnerable people. Vulnerable people are not only the traditional categories, they are also young people, and people who were not thought to be vulnerable to the virus. I will conclude by telling you that we must continue to take care of each other. This remains a priority. In addition to everything we do, in relation to contacts and in order to improve care as much as possible, we must take care of each other and remain vigilant towards the most vulnerable people. We have very strict rules and we know very well which contacts can be risky, dangerous. But there's one that's not dangerous. Taking the phone is not dangerous. Calling someone and asking if the person needs help, if they feel good, is not dangerous. It also works in the other direction. Someone who feels bad, who needs help, should not be ashamed today to seize the phone to call someone and ask for help. Listening to each other, talking to each other, it's also help. We need to help each other for our mental health. We often do so by small gestures, things perhaps a little lost in a life that is often turbulent. But listening to each other, helping each other, it's not forbidden, it's not dangerous. Today, times are hard for everyone. We have to work together. Together we must find the strength and support to get out of this crisis, and to get out of it together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u20	Madam President, Prime Minister, I sincerely hope that the unity you are announcing will translate tomorrow into strong, coherent actions and decisions that can also break the progress of VOCID-19, and that you will not only make them effective, but also respected. If that is not the case, Prime Minister, you will bear the heavy responsibility. Talk to the Regions: yes. But you can no longer hide behind the Regions, or behind the division of competences. If there is no consensus, you must decide for the whole country. The carers are on their knees. Today, we're pushing the walls of intensive care. You're telling us you're going to raise the capacity to 2,800 beds. It's not just a matter of beds. It's not just a matter of equipment. It is first and foremost an urgent need for additional arm reinforcements and caregivers. Last week, I gave you all the proposals of the General Union of Nurses of Belgium. There is a whole series of very concrete tracks to get out of it, for arm reinforcement, for reinforcement and direct support to nurses and caregivers. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u21	Prime Minister, we all know how difficult your task is today. The problem is, the virus is going much faster than you. He contaminates, he exhausts, he kills, without waiting for the decisions of the Consultation Committee on Friday. It's fast-paced against our people, against our economy. And that's what makes containment the only brake that will be effective today in fighting the spread of the virus. The longer you delay in imposing it, the longer it will be and the more destructive it will be. And then we will have lost on the whole line, on the human level, on the social level, on the medical level and on the economic level. The longer you'll be, the more cancer, heart attack or road accident victims can't be treated, who won't be able to be cared for. The more you delay, the more you lose the trust of the health care staff you rely on, but who are primarily entitled to rely on you, Prime Minister. I therefore urge you not to give in to the selfish considerations of some. Be the initiator of decisions! Don't be the commentator of these decisions! Be truly a gatherer! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u22	Thank you, Prime Minister. Of course, it is not enough to reassure people completely, but the fact that you say you want to work here today from the point of view of unity and the whole territory is a very important message. You express it diplomatically, which is normal from your position, but it's a public secret that that unit hasn't been established spontaneously in the last few days. I would like to encourage you in this respect; if it is necessary to be firmer and more explicit about it if unity is not achieved, then I think you have a great deal of confidence in taking matters into your hands. People really do not have a message at the moment to which level first communicates and what level other measures take. We all need the same measures, for all places across the country. Mr Prime Minister, it has not yet been discussed today, however, I think it is a concern of many colleagues, but let us not forget that the corona crisis is a social issue. A lot of people don't have lobby groups. A lot of people don't yell, but they deserve to be heard. I invite the government to take that dimension to heart in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u23	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. You have listed the three important conditions needed to defeat the virus. First of all, unit. Indeed, unity between the different governments in this country. Secondly, speed of action, based on facts. I sincerely hope that this will be reflected in the outcome of the next consultation committee in the way in which decisions will be communicated, but also in the way in which the measures will be implemented throughout the country. But in addition to unity and speed, there is a third important condition, and it is perhaps the most important one: solidarity. Solidarity among ourselves, in which we really need to pay particular attention to the people who are vulnerable and who face a very long mountain ride. Solidarity also internationally, as you rightly emphasised. Solidarity is also a key element in the rigorous monitoring of the various measures. We are obliged not only to each other, but above all to the people in care, who are currently giving the best of themselves to save our lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u24	Prime Minister, the decisions you may have to make tomorrow will undoubtedly be difficult. If they are taken courageously, all the social and economic consequences will have to be measured again. Similarly, they will have to – and we repeat it all the time – be clear, uniform and understood in the same way by each of our fellow citizens, whatever they may be and wherever they may be. It is no longer midnight minus one, there is no more a start of fire; there is fire in the house Belgium. To turn it off, we have to act now. Your responsibility will be great, Prime Minister – the weight of decisions will be as great. As you said, we will have to act to reduce the rate of contamination, to have sufficient beds to help our fellow citizens, to support our front-line caregivers, because tomorrow we cannot accept, Prime Minister, that hospitals must choose which patients to treat according to criteria that would be indecent for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u25	Mr President, Prime Minister, I can hear you and many Members using the situation to call for unity of command. It is true that clear communication is needed. It's not up to me to record the defense of chunk pilot Jan Jambon. However, ladies and gentlemen, let us remain serious. The fact that the second wave is not sufficiently prepared and the fact that the situation in hospitals is completely out of control cannot be put in the hands of Flanders. You can't kill that with the 11,000. The continuing blunder around the mouth masks, around the protective materials, the lack of testing capacity, a vaccine plan and the enforcement of the corona measures, even the relaxation of the measures by September 2020, are all responsibilities of the federal government and of the Belgian level. Mr Prime Minister, take that responsibility instead of shielding it with 'tous ensemble' football terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u26	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. It is clear that, apart from the joint pedestal that you have to take care of and have taken care of, we must have room for specific measures if necessary. Maybe we can share the experience. I quote you in that. Enforcement is, of course, of the utmost importance. When new measures are needed, they are needed. However, they can never be the alternative to non-compliance with the previous measures. I'd like to take advantage of my remaining seconds by reading a message that an emergency physician gave me. It is not a scientific advice but a cry for help: "Intense to the early autumn measures would not have been necessary epidemiologically if the rules had been properly followed, but a horrific number did not care. The entanglements are actually nothing more than enforcement decisions because the selfish'successful''scuse me, I'm just quoting'screws' that make up the population always found a reason to bend or ignore the rules. This has become an epidemic of selfishness. I hope the coffins are ready." That's the heart cry of someone at the front. Compliance (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u27	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer to the challenge. I want to retain two key elements. First of all, as you said, psychosocial support is fundamental. Today, at this extremely complicated time, a whole series of people are in real mental distress. You talked about simple gestures, taking his phone, caring for others, being supportive. But structural, political and budgetary support can also be provided. We, environmentalists, will be partners, clear supports for these issues that are a priority for us. Secondly, another equally essential element is Europe. You spoke of European solidarity. All of Europe, all of our neighbouring countries are hit by this virus. It is in fact a battle that we all have together, 450 million Europeans. I think that European coordination should be strengthened because Europe is not understood enough. You also talked about measures to combat the virus, about vaccination strategy at European level. These are essential elements. Here too, we fully support you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u28	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer, which was even concrete. My question was concrete, but I am no longer used to getting concrete answers in this House. I take note of your reply in which you say that you will bring together the relevant FPS to find a solution so that our emergency medical workers from the fire zones can also help to combat the crisis in hospitals. I hope that in 14 days' time I will not have to ask the same question again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u29	Madam President, Prime Minister, today all Members of Parliament have received a reply from you. Only a Member of Parliament was not allowed to start answering his question. This is the question I asked about the situation in companies, op de werkvloer. I have been asking the Prime Minister this question for three weeks now! Three weeks without any answer! That's what we call a taboo. This is a taboo, it should not be discussed here. It has to be said to the outside world that there are problems in the major problems, and that is something that can be discussed here! How is it possible? Produce, produce, produce. You're making a mistake, Prime Minister. You're making a contradiction between economics and health. What does the graphs show? It is the countries that have taken the most stringent measures against this pandemic that are the most economically successful today. China, South Korea, those countries are at the forefront of these two parameters. You see them as a contradiction. That's a mistake. Measures must be taken to defend workers. I'm sick of this taboo! Let's talk about it, please!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u30	Prime Minister, last week there was the decapitation of an innocent teacher in Paris, this morning there was the murder of three innocent churchgoers, there was an attack on the French consulate in Jeddah, and in Avignon, Toulon and Lyon, attacks were foiled on their prophet's birthday. As a statement by the Islamist terrorists, that can count. That's terrible for all the communities that mean well here. Our group would like to thank you for your support and condemnation, but we look forward very much to your plan of action. Last week, I wanted to ask you questions about the murder of Samuel Paty. They were referred to your colleagues. Yesterday, I wanted to question you about the same subject matter. That was referred back to another colleague. Today you have the opportunity to name the problem, Prime Minister. You have the opportunity to condemn, to respond vigorously, and above all to act vigorously, shoulder to shoulder with our ally, with France. After all, I would have it last week: when it rains at our neighbors, it drips with us. What's our threat analysis? Minister Verlinden had asked for a new threat analysis. What is our level today? How are you protecting us from that rage, from a potential attack on our Western values? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u31	Unfortunately, mournings for victims of Islamic terror become almost weekly reality. Just a week ago, France was in shock from the beastly murder of Samuel Paty. Today's the day again. France is once again shocked by a terrible terrorist attack. Allahi abda shouting an Islam terrorist stabbed several people in a horrible manner. They didn't survive. Among the victims is a young mother of 30. There have also been facts in Avignon. The French Embassy in Saudi Arabia has also been the scene of events. At the moment there are several other reports about other places in France. What happens today in France can happen here tomorrow. Unfortunately, the past has proved that. Europe has to deal with cancer, which must be cut off, especially in this country. The jihadists don't just want to kill our citizens, they want to kill our entire civilization. The choice of the basilica in Nice as the scene of the attack could not have been a coincidence. You can't wait for the terror to strike here, too. You must act decisively. Three things are important here. Firstly, the existing Islamic networks must be wiped out and dismantled by following the French example of the ban on Islamic organisations. Your government can appeal to the excellent expertise of former OCAD boss Mr Van Tigchelt. Second, there's got to be more armed blue on the street. Thirdly, strict and repressive action is needed. The penalties for terrorism are absolutely insufficient today. What's your answer? What are the plans of the OCAD? How will we deal with the now released and freed jihadists in the future? With a scared heart there is a look forward to the release of often hardened jihadists who know their profession well.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the reply I gave at the beginning of the sitting. Let me be very clear. For hatred, terror and - I would like to take over Mr Metsu's word - rage is absolutely no place in our society, in French society, in any society. I have sent a message of support and sympathy to President Macron and his government. Our intelligence and security services work very hard both at national and international level. The Body for the Coordination and Analysis of Threat, OCAD, is now evaluating the situation. That is a first point. Secondly, I instructed the Coordination Committee on Intelligence and Security, our intelligence and security service, on the basis of this analysis, to formulate an opinion with, if necessary, the necessary safeguards to the government, so that the government can act quickly if it is clear from that analysis that additional protection is needed for our people. The government is continuing the fight against terrorism and extremism. That starts with the fight against everything that incites hatred. That is clearly where the limit of freedom of expression lies. An opinion that inspires hatred goes beyond the bounds of free speech. That battle is being fought at a number of levels. Firstly, our police and intelligence services are very active on the Internet and Justice continues to call for hatred as a criminal offence. Regardless of whether that is based on religious or other motives, online inciting hate is being persecuted. The previous government had such hate propagandaists included on the OCAD list. That was a right choice and that policy is continuing today. Secondly, the culture of cooperation between our services, with exchange of information, early detection, prioritisation and the definition of the most appropriate service for action, is rightly being heavily exploited. Justice and Home Affairs continue to work on this with a view to a more robust approach to the danger of extremism and terrorism. Finally, we also fight abroad. We must absolutely combat the import of extremism and dangerous forms of Islamism. International cooperation is absolutely crucial to this fight, which we are fighting at home and abroad. The parliamentary committee of inquiry has made recommendations in this area, which are now being implemented. We must absolutely oppose the we-side story, which the extremists everywhere in the world are trying to get as much access as possible, including in our society. We are absolutely committed to an inclusive society, a society where different communities of faith live together, side by side and in complete security. It is our absolute priority to ensure maximum security for our citizens. Here in our society there is absolutely no place for terror, hatred and fury.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u33	Prime Minister, we all know that we are in alert level 4 for COVID-19, but that does not mean that we have to postpone all other problems for us. On the contrary, we must remain very vigilant about these immediate and even current problems. I would like to use the forum here to appeal to the Muslim executive here in Belgium to strongly condemn the events with an unmistakeable condemnation. I do not agree with you on one point, but we do need a side camp: we, who think well with our social model, who want to take up their responsibilities here. The other camp is the Islamist terrorists who want to overthrow our model of society.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u34	Prime Minister, I read from a message from the Prime Minister of Malaysia, Dr Mahathir Mohammed, who just walked in: "Muslims have the right to be angry and to kill millions of French people for the massacres in the past." That quote speaks volumes, Prime Minister. Will you call on the ambassador of Malaysia? After all, the question is what is still needed before the political class in Western Europe finally recognizes the situation in which we have ended up and makes the necessary consequences and takes very radical measures. Those who express their anger and sympathy today will not be able to watch Islamic fundamentalism anchored in our cities tomorrow. It is high time to make it clear that Europe is not as weak and defenceless as its enemies think and above all wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u35	Madam President, Minister, today thousands of companies do not respect health measures. We have received hundreds of alarming testimonies to this effect. Let me give you the example of this Volvo worker who was in direct contact with a person suffering from coronavirus and to whom it was said that if she had no symptoms, she had to continue coming to work, otherwise the box could not turn. That is why we have asked for the figures, which have been communicated to us by your services. These figures are alarming as it appears that six out of ten companies that had been audited did not comply with the rules and nine of them had received a warning. You said that the purpose was not the sanction, but that the health rules were respected. Minister, are you also naive to believe that you are going to convince such unscrupulous and unsightly companies of their workers with a small piece of paper while the FEB keeps shouting everywhere that these are only small offences and that workplaces are the safest places. Do you know what these small offences are, minister? This consists of not disinfecting the refectories, not cleaning the clarks when changing teams. In our view, there are no small offences against the virus. Will this taboo be removed once and for all from the role of companies in the spread of coronavirus? Minister, are you finally going to take steps to ensure that businesses really take part in the fight against the spread of this virus? Are you going to strengthen social inspection services and give them more resources to do so? Will you opt for increased sanctions for non-compliance?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u36	Madam President, Minister, the situation is extremely serious and I think that most Belgians are aware of it. Everyone knows a loved one. We understand that it is difficult here to stop the explosion of the disease. The numbers are freaking out. Today, Belgium surpassed the peak of hospitalizations on April 6. We have the sad record of daily contamination in Europe. How can we stop this escalation? There is no simple answer. There is a set of actions to follow and actions to be taken. We can see that, everywhere in Europe, we are trying to limit non-essential contacts and movements. Every contact avoided is a little breathing for our hospitals. Hard, hard measures are being taken and almost all have the same concern: allowing children and our young people to continue to go to school, hospitals to be able to still receive patients and the economy not to collapse. Mr Minister, telework is highly recommended, but unfortunately it is not possible everywhere. And, when this is not possible, it is mandatory to do everything possible to ensure the safety of our workers. Everyone must respect the barriers but companies must also adapt to ensure distancing, aeration, all these measures of prevention and protection of work. A guide to protection at work had been negotiated in consultation with the social partners. Our responsibility is also to ensure that the health rules are respected by all. Minister, can you take stock of the measures and controls carried out by the various inspection services? How many offences have been found? What sanctions have been imposed? Finally, will the companies in breach be re-controlled?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u37	Madam President, Minister, over the past 10 days, workers in a trade have been worried: they are seeing more and more positive cases and quarantines in their ranks. In addition, they identify a relaxation in the attention to health rules in their workplace. In fact, in recent months, businesses have remained open and have continued to guarantee the possibility for everyone to go shopping and thus to turn the economy around. That was what had to be done. They were able to remain open, subject to strict sanitary rules: disinfection, number of customers per store, shopping carts, physical distance, hydro-alcoholic gel, customer information and reminders. These measures ensure that everyone – both client and worker – limits the risk of contagion. Today, the decline in vigilance puts workers at risk in their workplaces. Their representatives have denounced these facts in the trade sector, but the fear of contamination in the workplace is, unfortunately, present in many other sectors. Minister, are you planning to send a reminder to distribution companies about the need to comply with and enforce health rules? Above all, what initiatives do you intend to take to ensure that the workplace is a secure place for those who cannot telework?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your various questions. Ms. Moscufo, I was well aware of the survey commissioned, conducted, communicated and commented on by the PTB. I also heard your spokesman set China as an example. I'm not sure Chinese workers share your point of view. That said, let's go home. Between May 4 and October 23, the Employment FPS received 1,030 company-related complaints. Of these, 130 were monitored remotely – i.e. by telephone – but above all more than 5,200 were checked locally, within the company and the shops. Of these 5,200 companies, 3,280 were in breach, 3,163 received a warning, 47 received a deadline to comply with the rules, 19 of which saw a pro justitia being set up. Finally, 84 closures were decided. Some may think that the number of warnings is too large compared to other types of sanctions, but I think it's a bit quick to forget that sometimes we talk about very minor offences. Serious infringements have led to pro justitia or the closure of a number of companies. Mrs Thémont, I assure you, checks will again be carried out, particularly in companies in which infringements have been found. That being said, on Tuesday I also asked the SPF Employment to step up controls in companies to check both compliance with the rules on telework and, Mrs Cornet, compliance with the safety rules for those who cannot telework. At my request, a circular was also sent to the prevention and protection services at work. This circular obliges these services to notify complaints they receive about non-compliance with the rules. They must also notify all offences they find in the performance of their duties. Such notifications should, of course, be addressed to the Welfare Control Service, which will carry out immediate field checks on that basis. I also requested that the complaints and violations found be integrated into a database. In collaboration with ONSS and Sciensano, this will identify the sectors or companies most affected and on which to step up controls to ensure that health rules are effectively applied to the benefit of all workers. Finally, and you also mentioned, version 3 of the generic guide is being finalized. It will be available this Friday, so tomorrow, after consultation within the Higher Council for Prevention and Protection at Work. I would also point out that all inspection services, including, for example, AFSCA, are mobilised to monitor compliance with health rules in companies. It is a daily work of everyone, entrepreneurs and businesses first, inspection services then but also of workers who can bring back the difficulties encountered in the field. Finally, Mrs Cornet, as you know, the ministerial decree adopted and published last night contains and coordinates a series of clear and precise measures with regard to the rules applicable to businesses, in particular in the head of the population, but also, of course, on the basis of the guide and the sectoral guides, specific rules which will have to be applied and monitored in the various businesses. The SPF Economy will also adapt the Trade Protocol to the new rules adopted and coordinated. We are also working with the economic inspectorate to enable it to assist the departments of the Ministry of the Interior in its various controls. These are the different elements I wanted to bring to your knowledge. It is clear to the government and to the Minister of Economy and Labour that respect for health rules is of course a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u39	Your reaction is a little crazy, minister. In fact, these are 3,323 offences. You're busy minimizing the reality on the ground. It should be noted that the reality of the street of the Act is quite different from the reality of business. I will give you another example: this lady who works in the service titles is tested positive. He was told: "If you don't come to work, I won't be able to replace you with the little lady you're going to work with every other day. I ask you not to tell your colleagues." This is the reality of the world of work today. And that's what you don't want to hear, minister. Tomorrow there will be a security council that will have to take very strict measures to deal with the spread of the virus. I tell you: perhaps you don't want to do it consciously, but if you don't take action on this world of work and those companies that play an important role in the spread of the virus, you will be responsible for the saturation of hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answers. These figures are, in fact, inquisitive and show that, above all, we must not lower the guard but, on the contrary, continue, as you have said, to communicate and adopt new rules of protection, and above all to control. I note, as you have said, that the third version of the Generic Workplace Safety Guide will come into effect tomorrow. I think this is a job that needs to be done continuously. The virus mutates. Our behaviour and the rules to be respected must follow these developments. And we must continue to strengthen, as you do, as you have pointed out, the controls. We know that it is all together that we must fight against the explosion of this pandemic; all together, in our daily actions, in our workplace: employers, workers, employees, collaborators, jobists. The effort must be shared and collective. Our responsibility here, for all of us, is to make sure that safety in the workplace is guaranteed. I have no doubt, minister, that you will do everything in your power to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u41	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. First of all, I understand that you will not take an example of China to improve working conditions in Belgium. I find that rather reassuring. I welcome the circular and the initiatives you mentioned, including the controls that would be targeted based on the feedback you will have. I think that's a very good way to do it. In any case, it is true that in all sectors, I mean that people are obliged to go to work and be positive. Everywhere, I hear that freedoms are taken with health rules and that is to the detriment of everyone's health. Given the situation, it's not tenable. This third Generic Guide is a step in the right direction, absolutely. But sometimes, appealing to the civic sense of each has apparently limits. In trade and elsewhere, perhaps we need to think about health measures that would be mandatory in order to protect people in the workplace. In any case, I thank you for encouraging all the services you mentioned, particularly inspection, to take their full role in order to stand alongside those who have virtuous practices and who want working conditions that are secure and secure for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u42	Madam President, Minister, today we are at the heart of the second wave of the coronavirus crisis, which unfortunately looks much stronger than the first. It must be noted that we are faced with an adversarial situation. Following the closure of certain sectors, the number of temporary unemployed is rising again after a drastic decline during the summer months and, in parallel, some sectors, such as health care, education and the police, are facing increasing absenteeism due to increased contamination and quarantine. We talk about more than 20% of absenteeism sometimes, which obviously raises many concerns in terms of organisation and continuity of services, with the consequences that we can imagine. In the first wave, the government had taken steps to support the employment of vital sectors. This week, you said you want to implement a legal framework very quickly to allow an exchange of workers between companies, mainly towards vital sectors in need of labour. It is clear that this mainly concerns workers placed in temporary unemployment following the crisis. A survey conducted by Acerta found that two out of three workers indicated that they were willing to temporarily perform another function and wanted to be useful to society. Very concretely, Minister, in relation to the provisions of the Royal Decree of 27 April 2020, can you tell us whether the measures have achieved their objectives? Has an evaluation of these measures been carried out? Sectors require a clear but, above all, easy framework to be operational. What is changing today in the measures you are announcing to us? Finally, when will this device be applied?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u43	Madam President, Minister, Flemish Health Minister Wouter Beke announced last week that he is counting on temporary unemployed to cope with the imminent shortage of staff in the Flemish residential care centres. A survey of 1,280 employees of these residential care centres shows that more than half of them claim to be overfatigue. Meanwhile, more than 2,000 employees of these residential care centres are already at home. And also in hospitals, of course, the need is very high. Since the start of the corona crisis, I have addressed the need and opportunity to help temporary unemployed in other sectors, either temporarily or as a career switch, because of course that is also possible. For example, in the care sector they can be used perfectly for all kinds of supporting tasks, either administratively or logistically, thus for all non-nurse tasks. In Flanders, the VDAB has meanwhile started to accompany temporary unemployed people to other jobs, either temporarily or as a career switch. At the same time, it is important that a balance is sought, with no brain drain being organised from other sectors. After all, we must not only tackle the problems today, we must also look ahead and prepare the future, however strange that may sound at an almost climax of the corona crisis. We must continue to look forward. Do you support the idea of guiding temporary unemployed to other jobs? A lot of employees are willing to do that. What concrete measures will you take to support labour mobility to other sectors? How will you ensure that a balance is maintained so that no brain drain from other sectors is organised, which in turn could jeopardise the future of these sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u44	Madam President, as you know, the government, in collaboration with the Corona police station, but also with the competent ministers of the federated entities, makes daily decisions to organise the labour market as part of the fight against coronavirus. Mr Anseeuw spoke about forecasting and anticipation of future needs. In my view, today, it is imperative that we focus on the responses to the crisis of coronavirus, VOCID-19. That is what must all of us mobilize on a daily basis. This is my case, that of my teams and of the whole government. As I have just said, certain measures have been taken within the framework of the organisation of work. Telework has become the rule. If telework is not possible, companies must take measures to ensure compliance with health and social distance rules. Follow-up of telework will be done through monitoring. Discussions with the social partners on this subject are under way. As you know, employers' representatives have also been asked to present good practices in teleworking at work in companies. This subject will be discussed with the members of the National Labour Council tomorrow. We also have a desire to better manage telework. Today we are in a kind of legal blur. To answer Mr Anseeuw's questions, it is our will that in the short, but also in the medium and long term, we can better guide this telework and ensure, in particular, that working hours are regulated and that workers are better protected. I will not go back to the generic guide; we referred to it earlier. This guide serves as a basis for sectoral guides. Appropriate measures are also being developed at company level. All this, of course, is done with respect for social dialogue. As I indicated in replying to previous questions, the inspection services have also been asked to ensure compliance with the rules of telework and the health protocol within companies. Moreover, and I come to the heart of your questions, honourable Members, we have tried to clear up time for the first line. We know that one of the challenges in the health care sector – but not only – is absenteeism, which means a lack of staff. Therefore, we must do everything possible to mobilise arms so that they can help this first line. To this end, we have asked occupational physicians to be able to also participate in the fight against coronavirus on the front line, including by issuing quarantine certificates or using rapid tests. We will discuss this with my colleague Vandenbroucke later. This request had been expressed by the social partners in the Higher Council for Prevention and Protection at Work. Of course, other measures are being reviewed by the government and are in the process of being implemented. For example, we are talking about temporary unemployment. I have asked the government to provide workers in temporary unemployment or with career breaks for the most affected sectors. For example, they will be able to work in the health or education sector. Workers from other sectors will also be able to do so. Those workers will be sure that they will be able to return to their previous jobs. We ensured that this was done as quickly and simply as possible through a FAQ (FAQs). The FAQ will be completed and will be published on the website of the FOD by the end of the week. All these measures have been agreed with my regional colleagues, the employment ministers, who are in charge of the VDAB, Actiris and Forem. Of course, as a matter of urgency, these are measures taken in the context of the fight against coronavirus. I am not closed to thinking in the medium and long term, but as I said, this will have to be done with respect for social consultation, with all the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answers. Like all of us, you measure the urgency of the situation. Regardless of the scale at which we operate, our priority as policies is to support key sectors that, for the most part, find themselves in great difficulty in the face of labour shortages. It is obvious that we will support you in all the steps that will be taken in this direction. Finally, Minister, let me raise a concern. The general administrator of Forem spoke in the press this week. She said that 350 qualified people in health care were still in the Forem database – a situation that may be the same in Flanders and Brussels. If these people are always available and available, there is, I think, a path that can be explored to strengthen our health care services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u46	Madam President, Minister, on the heart of the matter, namely the concrete measures you will take to ensure and strengthen labour mobility, you have remained somewhat on the level. You replied that this will be published on the website by the end of the week. We shall then read what specific measures you have in store for us. However, I would like to emphasise very strongly that we are preparing the future today. I understand, of course, that today's focus is on tackling the problems that are now arising. At the same time, however, we must anticipate the future so that today's measures do not mortgage the future. On the contrary, we must seize the opportunities offered today, not only in order to solve the current acute problems, but also in order to enable and shape a modern post-corona labour market policy. Today we must do everything we can to combat COOVID-19, but also to deal with the after-effects that can continue to work for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u47	Mr Minister, your visit to the hospital in Liège yesterday was more than just a minister who is encouraging care workers. You took all of Belgium to that hospital, to see what we knew somewhere, but perhaps we didn't want to know. Seeing something is sometimes much more powerful than just hearing something. The images of the people on the bed have struck me, and all of us, I suppose, deeply. But also, Minister, the distress call of the people at the bed, those who are ready every day to save lives, those who are in danger of drowning. That statue also came hard. About that care staff doctors, nurses, lab workers, other health care staff of our hospitals, general practitioners, home nurses and that's all I want to talk about. How do we give them oxygen? How can we help them? Colleagues, this spring there was applause. Spring, it's been so long, our care staff has been in the weather for a long time. It is still those same people who stand at those beds day and night, both in hospitals and in the people's homes. They were there this spring, they were there this summer and they're still happy now. The sprint has become a marathon and unfortunately they still have to run for a while. Then, ladies and gentlemen, the breath runs out and the burden becomes heavy, too heavy. If we're not careful, we'll have beds later, but not the hands to take care of the people on the beds. Without breathing space for the care staff, we won't get there. We have to give them oxygen. Mr. Secretary, you announced measures. Crying for that from the sp.a. fraction. What concrete measures do you take in the short term to give oxygen to our much-needed care staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u48	Minister, I was here last week to share with you the anger of the nursing staff who had mobilized to release emergency, on-site, means to deal with the situation. You then told me that it was impossible to do overnight. I was pleasantly surprised yesterday when you announced that you were still going to take action and identify additional resources in an emergency. It is, of course, an absolute necessity to deal with the situation, but it is also – and it is important to stress this – a message to all those who are still mobilising today: when you do not stay alone, when you fight, when you see an injustice, you have to get together, you can fight and win. But at the same time you said yesterday on television that you have made money available, but that it will be difficult to find additional nurses in hospitals. I was a little surprised by your statements, because in your measurements, indeed, you are not talking about working conditions or wages. And even today, in Liège, the nursing staff were conducting actions and a person sent me a photo of the staff in front of MontLégia. What are they asking for? For years, they have been making demands – valorisation of wages, recognition of the profession as painful. They want concrete. That is true, at present, 19,000 registered nurses have left the sector. A nurse explained to me that by being divorced with two dependent children, she left this heavy-hearted job, because she could no longer continue to pay so many hours for the salary she received. Some nurses only have a salary of 1,700 euros. My questions are very concrete. Are you also going to raise the wages of these trades today and are you going to grant them the status of a difficult trade so that they can retire at age 60? On this point, we do not find anything in the government's agreement anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u49	Madam President, Minister, you went to the MontLégia Clinic yesterday. We were able to see the emotion that was yours after seeing the working conditions there. It is true that the situation is worrying. It is also for the first line. With the number of hospitalizations, the number of cases in intensive care, it is clear that we need beds, but also staff (care workers, paramedical staff). Several measures can be taken. 4th grade nursing students can be mobilized in collaboration with schools. Medical students can also be mobilized in collaboration with universities. But overall, we also need to rethink how we work, improve flexibility, and provide for a broader management area in order to be able to affect qualified personnel where they are needed. In addition, there is also the White Blouses Fund – Ms. Merckx has just referred to 19 nurses who were no longer in office – as a means of attempting to remobilize nurses who had left the profession. Minister, my questions are simple and clear. Do you have an ambitious personnel plan in the health care sector, both at the hospital level and at the front line level? Do you have contacts with your counterparts to examine the possibility of improving collaborations with universities and colleges? Is it possible to foresee the defiance of overtime, to foresee prolongation of recoveries, the possibility to pay monthly for the overtime worked? What about the activation of the White Blouse Fund to remobilize nurses who have ceased their activity?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u50	Madam President, Minister, you said yesterday that you were shocked and shocked at what you saw in MontLégia. I can understand, but this reality is that of the day-to-day care providers today, but also that of the next few weeks. It's no longer midnight minus one, minister! It's midnight five! How can you accept, in your capacity as Minister of Health, that the measures that should have been taken much earlier and that should have been stronger to avoid what we are living today should have been as much as we should have done? We're clearly at the stage where we have to choose who to treat. It's unimaginable in Belgium, in the 21st century! Caregivers are at the end of the roll at all levels: front line, hospitals – we push the walls of intensive care – but also at the level of rest homes. They're on their knees. They've already given a lot. Some are sick; others have had too many hours of overtime. We've lost valuable time. Today is the time to find urgent solutions. Of course, there will be salary revalorisation. Of course, there is the White Blouses Fund. Of course, it is essential to recognize the profession as painful and to facilitate career ends. But we need immediate arm reinforcement. There are students as well as Defence who could be even more active in logistics. Minister, with a crisis status, we can now mobilize caregivers who are not active in the health sector and who must then be exempted from their professional activity. We also need to challenge overtime, which is 70% taxed at home. It is necessary to move forward with a VOCID bonus to motivate caregivers who are at the front, with service titles at home to help them at the family level, with a carry-over of leave in 2021 or a payment, if they so wish, without impacting them taxably. We must also not forget the psychological support that remains indispensable. You've got your hand! Urgent action can and must be taken. Now it's up to you to act!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u51	Madam President, I think I am speaking very well to the questioners by saying once again what extraordinary respect we really must have for the people who are working today in hospitals, in primary care and in the healthcare sector in general. What happens is a total disruption of their normal routine. In the present situation they go home tired after many hours of work, yet with the feeling that they have not been able to do their job properly. That's terrible. I think it is difficult to imagine how bad it is for nurses, nurses and doctors, not only to have to work hard, to get into such a situation the second time in a row, but also to feel unable to really do what needs to be done. The stakes are huge. I think that we must pay particular respect for what these people are doing. I agree with all the questioners that this respect is not a matter of words alone, because that would be very gratuitous. I would therefore simply like to look briefly at what we are proposing as an approach today. Some decisions have been taken and some elements of strategy are under development. I share this in the realization, as Mrs Fonck says, that the essence is that we can only help hospitals by taking very strict measures and applying them strictly and 100%, perhaps even one hundred and twenty percent, in such a way that the circulation of the virus and the increase in the number of hospitalizations can be completed. Both Mr. Piedboeuf and Ms. Fonck referred to the White Blouse Fund. There, I think we can now say that the White Blouse Fund is fully operational. It has been included in the budget of the hospitals' financial resources. This means that hospitals have the means to recruit the staff they need to complement and improve their supervision structurally – even though it is known that recruitment is difficult. The White Blouse Fund is already a reality on the ground and it can be used. As Ms Fonck also mentioned, one element of this fund is important, namely psychological support for those who work in these extremely difficult circumstances. This fund provides additional resources to hospitals to support the mental health of their caregivers and their ability to continue to work under these conditions. Then, another important element, the advances that have been granted in the past year will be regularized. I signed the royal decree. You have to understand what that means. These were advances. There was an amount of two billion. Regularization does not necessarily apply to the two billion, but the rules have been defined and financial security has been created and a clear horizon has been created for all hospital managers, and therefore for all doctors and for all the staff who are working. This regulation is extremely important because it creates security. At the same time, we know that this is not enough. Some problems are not really solved by this regularisation: for example, the fact that there was a lack of reception of user tickets throughout this period; for example, the fact that patients were not covered by insurers; for example, the fact that doctors made services which were not their normal benefits and which must be remunerated; for example, the fact that there is an additional effort of the health care staff that still has to be tried to value in one way or another. That is why the federal government is currently studying a second major effort, a new tranche – which will certainly not reach two billion – to financially support hospitals. The aim is to reward correctly all the efforts that are being made and also to fill some of the deficits observed in this area. Unfortunately, I cannot give you detailed figures, because we are discussing them within the government. In any case, I hope that our deliberations will continue with a view to reaching very concrete decisions. As far as the first line is concerned, Mr Piedboeuf, I think you have rightly mentioned it. Today, we look above all at the situation of hospitals, which is extremely difficult. We're going straight into the wall! However, the first line is also in great difficulty. In this regard, I believe that two avenues need to be explored. First of all, the administrative burden must be reduced – and important decisions will be taken in this area. As of Monday, a quarantine certificate can be obtained by being downloaded via the Corona app. It will therefore no longer be necessary to go to the general practitioner. Then, if a school doctor or work send you to get tested, you will no longer have to go through a general practitioner. It will also be a reality from Monday. Therefore, we will reduce administrative pressure. At the same time, we are going to increase the financial resources of the generalists by using the simplest method – and, knowing the criticisms, I know that it is not perfect – of substantially revalorising, in the form of one shot, their financing through the global medical file. Remember, and if I'm not mistaken, he's worth thirty-one euros. We will increase this amount by twenty euros. In this way, generalists will have to recruit people who can help them in their secretariats. This one shot effort will reach a total of EUR 162 million. That seems absolutely necessary to me. I would also like to add that we have an agreement in principle within the federal government and also within the Interdepartmental Conference on Health Care to strengthen psychological support and mental health. The idea is to link this to the first line. This also means that we will make support possible for general practitioners, but above all for their patients. With regard to staff mobilization, I now turn to the elements of the strategy that we are deploying to truly optimize the capacity of hospitals to use. Yeah, we're talking right now, and we're maximizing all the leads you mentioned. I say this in the presence of my colleague the Minister of Defence: I am of course thinking of defence solidarity. I can say, and it is not to please my colleague, that Defence solidarity is extremely generous; I believe that our soldiers are doing everything they can and are still going to do, taking into account existing mandates, which cannot be stopped immediately. There is also a desire for solidarity and generosity that I find remarkable. We can call on doctors, nurses and paramedics to help our health care institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u52	Minister, you have already gone far beyond your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u53	Excuse me, I'm almost done. We are currently studying all the other elements that have been mentioned, such as high schools, and the remobilization of people who qualify as caregivers in another sector. We will do our utmost to try to help our institutions and hospitals in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u54	Minister, it is thanks to the work of all those courageous men and women that our care system does not break. So we have to give them oxygen to get through this tough period now, and also over the next few months. Thank you, Minister, for the detailed list of measures. We must support our hospitals quickly and decisively. We need to invest extra in our first line, in the organisation of our general practitioners, in our vital mental health care, in the well-being and well-being of our people and in the care staff. The most important of all: let us follow the necessary rules super strictly. It is simply necessary, for ourselves, for our neighbors, for the care staff, for all of us. Please let us all do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u55	Madam President, Minister, yesterday and today you announced a number of measures which are a first step in the right direction and are necessary. However, I spoke to you on two specific issues, and you did not answer them. However, the nurses are on the street today asking for these things. They can't put applause between their sandwiches. That has often been said, and that is also the reality. It is not normal that you still do not propose any wage increases today. You need to increase these wages in concrete terms. That's a question from the nurses. After all, they are no longer able to survive. The second question was whether you would recognize the profession of nurse as a heavy occupation. You did not answer that question either. Today 19,000 nurses no longer work in the sector in our country, although they had chosen the profession to carry it out with heart and soul. However, due to poor working conditions and low salaries, they have left. If we do not solve this, we will not be able to solve the personnel crisis either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u56	Madam President, Minister, in your reply, we obviously feel that, beyond infrastructure and equipment, you are fully aware that what is fundamental is staff. It's the doctors, it's the nurses, it's the front line, it's the maintenance staff, too, which is really fundamental to our hospitals, our health care, day-to-day. You've set out new directions, goals and objectives. It's essential. It is also important, beyond these objectives to achieve, to ensure that flexibility is a reality in hospitals, that overtime is deflated, that longer recoveries are made possible, and that the necessary flexibility is given to management to organise all this. In any case, the decisions are in the right direction. We hear that budgets are still going to be released. Minister, thank you for your answers. We will of course always be behind you to support these actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u57	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. I note two positive points. First of all, the new tranche of funding for hospitals. It's an important element. Above all, do not do the same thing as the last time, that is, they are not just recoverable advances! Because, anyway, with the deprogramming of non-COVID-19 care, we are already creating a budget hole at the hospital level. Second, support for general practitioners. I plead, once again, for the defiance of overtime and for leave. It's really a little extra bonus for the healthcare staff, who invests, but not to mention. You can't imagine how much nurses and caregivers today are at the front! Do you know that there are two hundred thousand nurses and caregivers in Belgium? One hundred and forty thousand are active in the professional sector. Only one hundred and twenty thousand are active in the health care sector. I am regularly called by caregivers and nurses, who tell me that they want to go back to the front, but they must then be able to be exempted from their other professional activity. Do it! We don't have time to think. We are here today on the brink of the abyss. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u58	Mr De Roover, you are asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u59	Madam President, at the moment there is a meeting of the Social Affairs Committee, because an amendment has been tabled. I am informed that quite a few amendments have been tabled which do not really fit the proposed legislation, probably because the government wants to take some measures very quickly. This does not mean that, if the government wants to take immediate action, it does not mean that we want to interfere by definition, but I would like to ask that the committee's operation be stopped for at least a moment or that the members of the Health Committee, where this subject belongs, should be able to participate in that discussion. Now amendments are being tabled which involve health aspects, to which the colleagues of the Committee on Social Affairs have to respond, a little unexpected, without being able to prepare themselves for that. That does not seem to me to be the right course of action. It seems to me appropriate that the members of the Health Committee should be able to intervene in the debate, because the Social Affairs Committee is being used improperly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u60	Mr De Roover, indeed, there is an amendment that concerns the Health Committee. I could propose that this particular amendment be referred to the Health Committee and that this committee be convened, by Zoom of course. It's 4:20. There is a need to discuss with the services how to proceed in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u61	Madam President, thank you for your constructive proposal. A joint committee may be convened. Since the amendments have been tabled on a legislative proposal to be discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs, it is difficult to transfer it to another committee, but I do think that the committees could act together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u62	Madam President, I understand Mr De Roover's feedback. I think everyone is aware that these are special times and that measures must have a basis. It seems to me to be the most practical solution suggested by Mr De Roover. Please inform the members of the Committee on Health that they can join the Committee on Social Affairs, which may mean a short suspension, and try to continue working on it in the Committee on Social Affairs. Bringing together another committee seems to me to be asking for problems before today's vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u63	Having heard your thoughts, I think the best thing is that colleagues in the Health Committee can connect to the Social Affairs Committee. We're going to make sure to settle this within the next few minutes. The link will be sent to them so that they can follow the current commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u64	Madam President, Minister, first of all I would like to endorse all the evidence of respect that has already been expressed, including by you, but also by many colleagues before me, with regard to the care staff. The situation in hospitals is becoming increasingly dramatic. We are all aware of this: 5,924 corona patients are currently in hospital. Nurses, doctors, everyone in the care: they're on their gums. Now there is also the fear that the maximum capacity of intensive care beds would be reached by the end of this week. A contingency plan has been drawn up for this purpose, Minister, in which only the most seriously ill patients would end up with intensive care. The plan states that people who only need a lot of oxygen or monitoring, for example, end up in some kind of middle department or midcare, where they can be treated and cared for further. It is expected that about one in four patients could end up in that midcare, allowing us to clear 300 to 500 beds. This also requires an adjustment of the hospital infrastructure, for example additional oxygen pipes that need to be built, and it also creates additional stress for the care staff who are already on their gums. Let us not forget that for sure. We are also picking up the signs that in many hospitals there would be a lack of capacity. In Wallonia, among other places, there are hospitals where the Defense Department has been assisted in the meantime. I have a few questions on this, Minister. How feasible is it to set up an intermediate department in a hospital in the very short term, not only in terms of staff, but also, and above all, in terms of infrastructure? Have agreements already been reached with other countries to transfer, for example, the sickest patients to other countries so that they can receive further care there?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you spoke about mid-care or medium-care departments in our hospitals. We probably won't use those names anymore because they're confusing. It's like step-down wards where people can get out of the real intensive care beds. There, the availability of oxygen with a sufficiently high flow rate is particularly important. This is technically called Optiflow of nasal high flow oxygen therapy. This therapy should be available. There is indeed an equipment problem. That's exactly what we're charting right now. Indeed, it is the ambition to transfer a quarter of patients with COVID-19 from intensive care to these less intensive, yet special departments at a relatively good time. That calls for a little planning, and you are quite right to say that. If the staff are collapsed there, this is not only the recipe for poor quality care, but also for a lot of stress. It is indeed one element of the strategy that we have given to the hospitals and that we are investigating further. Infrastructure is a problem here and there, but ultimately the main problem is people and hands. You're well informed. I won't say anything more about that. We absolutely must be able to appeal to European solidarity. I myself contacted the German Federal Minister for Health last week, Mr Spahn. I have also personally contacted my colleagues in two Länder, namely the nearby Nordrhein-Westfalen and Rheinland-Pfalz. I was very gilded with the spontaneous, very generous attitude of our German colleagues. They immediately said that European solidarity plays a role here and that they immediately accept patients when they have available places and we want patients to be cared for. That's what we should do. I also informed the hospitals today that we should do that if that can help. It is a perfectly normal application of European solidarity. That's just about the efficient use of our hospital capacity. In Germany there are very many beds for intensive care. In the meantime, I have also ensured that everything necessary for the financing of residence, care and transport has been done. The hospitals that wish to do so can now call on hospitals in Germany to provide care for patients. That will not necessarily be a large group because it is a matter of delicate decisions that patients have to be looked at per patient. That is absolutely not clear, but there is a possibility. I think it is a good example of self-evident European solidarity and hospitals can apply it from now on.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for the very comprehensive answer. I understand that there is a particular need for extra hands in the care sector, and it reassures me that there is international solidarity. We must hold on to them and ensure that solidarity continues to exist within our own country. I know that you are watching and I hope that everyone will follow that example. I made a suggestion to your predecessor a few weeks ago to use medical students as well. Meanwhile, the UZ Ghent has started working on this and I hope that many other hospitals will follow that example. Perhaps one can also try to convince qualified health care workers to jump into where it is currently burning. I'm sure there's a lot of people out there who want to jump in. In my own municipality we do the same for our home-care center and these people really want to make an effort, if it is only 1 or 2 hours a day. Perhaps this is the way to find solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u67	Madam President, Minister, Minister, 'disaster medicine', 'terrible' and 'war situation' are just some of the words we are hearing today from various chief doctors in Walloon hospitals and we expect them from Flemish hospitals within a few days. The dikes are breaking. The National Crisis Centre warns that by next Friday we will be at the maximum capacity in healthcare. The caregivers deserve our unconditional respect. Untiringly, they strive day in and day out to guarantee our care. In my view, we can best show our respect by ensuring that their burdens do not become heavier. That is why we must respect the rules consistently. Anyone who fails to comply with the rules must be fined. Our policemen must be able to address and punish people safely, without fear of their own health. We must give them the means to do so. The time for warnings is over, it is time for penalties. As politicians, too, we have an important role, the role of clarity. People crave certainty and clarity. It does not matter to them who takes action, as long as they are correct and clear. I would therefore also like to thank our Minister for Security, Annelies Verlinden. Yesterday, with the ministerial decision, she showed that rapid, firm and unambiguous action can be taken. Minister, Minister, how do you see the reconciliation between a coherent policy and the possibility for regional and local authorities to act? How will you use additional resources to enforce the new measures? How will you ensure that the agents can operate safely? Mr Vandenbroucke, to finish, I have a very important question for you. For us, the most important thing is that people in care are optimally supported. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u68	Madam President, I understand that Mr Verlinden is also responding to this. If so, I shall confine myself to two elements which are strictly within my competence. Many questions also require important answers from Mr Verlinden. Mr Demon, you have stressed once again that we must support the care staff. Yeah, that's what we want to do. I will not repeat what I replied to previous questions and what I said last week. Yeah, that's what we want to do. I would like to take this opportunity to say the following about the remuneration of the nursing staff. Also to Mrs Merckx, although it is now gone. A social agreement has been concluded which represents a significant improvement in wages, but this increase in wages cannot yet be achieved tomorrow. We need further negotiations on this first. Those negotiations will take some time. The money's here. I suspect that next week, or two weeks at the latest, I will be able to sign a solemn agreement confirming that the money for that agreement is available. There's no doubt about that. But the joint committees will still have to negotiate exactly what this means to raise wages for all the staff involved. Unfortunately, it takes a little patience. That's annoying, but it is. In the meantime, we are considering the elements mentioned here: the taxation of overtime and others. You asked me: can we live with the differences between the measures taken in the regions, provinces or municipalities? I will give a very general answer, but it is honest. If there are very large differences in the epidemiological situation between one region and another in the same country, different measures must of course be applied. Perhaps even very different measures. But if the epidemiological situation is almost similar, the only difference being that one is ahead of the other or ahead of the other is to do what Mrs Verdeinden has done, namely to define a clear bar for everyone. It must be applied everywhere. That's the only thing people understand. I believe that we policy-makers need to think about what people understand, what they can follow. That is why we have opted for unity in action, because the epidemiological situation is not very different, and to keep it as simple as possible for the people. The fact that there is a local approach in other countries, where there are very large differences, makes sense. But that's not our situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is indeed serious. As Mr Vandenbroucke has already pointed out, our people deserve clarity. To this end, we created a clear federal base yesterday. For me, therefore, the only way forward is to maintain that clarity in the difficult days, weeks and months that are coming, so that everyone knows what the measures are and so that, in particular, the police can follow them in a clear way. As far as your question on enforcement and control is concerned, I said last week that the measures should be maintained and monitored. That was an absolute priority in the last few weeks. The police have taken responsibility for this. That applies to both local and federal police. The latest police reports, which I have received this morning, show that most or most of the infringements detected are failure to comply with the co-operation ban and the night clock. Also not wearing the mouth mask or not wearing it correctly remains a focus of attention. According to the latest figures, 143.124 violations of the various corona measures have so far been detected by our police forces. On the basis of the figures for the last few weeks, I also note that there is an increase in the number of findings, which is a response to the call made here in the Chamber for clearer enforcement action. These figures apply both to Brussels, Flanders and Wallonia, from which we can conclude that there is effective and clear control. In consultation with the Prime Minister, I also took the initiative to send a new ministerial letter, the so-called GPI 94bis, which can be published in the Official Journal at any time. The GPI 94bis is addressed to the police and gives clear instructions to the police regarding the visible presence. There was also a clear demand to show everyone that they are being maintained, which does not mean that we can put an agent on every corner of the street. However, we must send a very clear signal that non-compliance with the measures is being monitored. The letter also deals with the follow-up of available police capacity and raises the question of what capacity is available. If there is a failure or absenteeism due to corona, we want to be able to follow it up, so that the federal police can assist the local police where necessary. Based on all these instructions and the new ministerial circular, the police will organise large-scale, targeted corona actions in Brussels and other cities in the coming days and weeks. The circular underlines, of course, the importance of rigour, coherence and uniformity in enforcement. This makes the joint efforts result-oriented and effective and improves public acceptance and understanding. This circular is on top of the operational guidelines of the Integrated Police Task Force set up in March. That task force is responsible for the uniform police approach to the corona crisis. The operational guidelines drawn up and steered by the Task Force will also be reviewed whenever new measures are announced and should be followed. In this way, the Task Force has already regularly demonstrated that operational guidelines and efforts in the field are being harmonised and coordinated, including with local and federal police. The Task Force shall also closely monitor whether the operational employability of the integrated police and enforcement capacity would be compromised. Policemen, like us, are part of the common fabric, but they come in much more physical contact with other people. They are therefore also susceptible to possible infections. We will therefore continue to focus on priority tests as we agreed with the Minister of Health and this in order to avoid failure as much as possible. The new circular gave the instruction to optimize that flow of information on staff absences related to COVID-19. Enforcement by the police is therefore proceeding with the maximum commitment to compliance with the corona measures. I would like to thank all the police, emergency workers and healthcare providers in particular once again for their enormous efforts in these difficult times.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u70	I would have liked to take advantage of this situation to ask both ministers for two things in the short time we have left before tomorrow's conciliation committee. Let the situation of young people be taken into account. Thousands of young people are losing an important part of their youth today. In early life, a month lasts for eternity. Many suffer from psychological distress and isolation. I'd like to see that taken into account tomorrow. Moreover, our party is also convinced that it is time to make the coronabarometer public. We believe that barometer is a goal in the struggle to give it to the people intelligibly. He can be an incredibly powerful motivational tool, as motivational psychologists have mentioned before. In addition, he shows very visually the seriousness of the situation, which can also contribute to consistent compliance with the rules. In our view, it can help to fight this battle together, united.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u71	Madam President, you are right to watch very closely that Members of Parliament remain within the time limit for asking their question, but I must say that we have just had a minister who replied five minutes while she has two minutes at her disposal and her predecessor has almost doubled his speaking time. Maybe there can be some balance. If you are strict with the Members of Parliament, you must also be strict with the Ministers. After all, the rules of the game apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u72	I fully understand and I believe that the issues are of a gravity that unfortunately allows us to hear the government's response broadly. It is also our role to question him. It's almost 5:00 p.m. and if we go too far, we're going to have a problem coordinating questions and answers. We come to the last question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u73	Madam Secretary, last week you had a first meeting with your NATO colleagues. In the margins of that meeting, you gave the clear message that Belgium remains on the growth path towards the 2% of the GDP standard. Earlier this week, we received the news that an efficiency exercise of 0.89 % on the operation and staff is planned for Defence in 2021, and that is in stark contrast to the 2% that other departments should achieve. It has already been widely said that we are currently experiencing exceptional times, with a huge budgetary impact, but the distinction between 2 and 0.89% is a very important signal. It is now looking forward to your policy paper, the way in which you will do it and the accents you will put on it, but it is very important that we equip Defense and continue to invest so that Defense can take on its important role and offer the most modern and most secure equipment to our military. We owe them that, too. People who work every day for us and our safety deserve the best material. Can you confirm that the investments provided for in the strategic vision 2016-2030 will be maintained so that our Defence and our military will get and keep the most secure, state-of-the-art and state-of-the-art equipment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u74	Mr Pillen, as you know, Defence contributes to the security of the State and plays an important role in the fight against the sanitary crisis. The department will also participate in the efficiency exercise by saving on the budget. Therefore, in 2021, the Ministry of Defence will have a saving of 0.89 % and not of 2 %. Moreover, this saving will not be made on investment appropriations. Defence's strategic vision with a 2030 horizon and the law on military programming provide a solid work base and its implementation will continue. Investment in Defence requires continuity and a long-term vision. However, it is necessary to update it in the light of the complex, uncertain and unpredictable security environment in which we live. Particular attention will be paid to the coherent development of each capacity and sub-capacity in order to avoid unhealthy imbalances in the readiness of Defence and its components. It is still our goal to get 20% of the total expenditure on defence by the end of the legislature, as NATO demands. The coalition agreement stipulates that a growth path will be drawn up to bring the defence effort back into line with the European non-nuclear NATO alliance by 2030. Moreover, in implementing the law on military programming and confirming what I have just said, I will submit a number of investment files to the Council of Ministers for approval between now and the end of December.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u75	Madam Minister, if I understand correctly, we are not only going towards the 2% standard, but we will also achieve the other 20% NATO standard in this legislature with this government, which is very often forgotten. This is also a very important signal, of course to our partners in the European Union and in NATO, but also to all our military. It does not happen often in this Chamber, but I think I speak for everyone if I thank them once again for their commitment and what they are doing today in the context of helping the nation. Our soldiers deserve our support, they deserve our respect and our appreciation, and therefore also the latest and most modern material available.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u76	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u77	The next item is the vote on the nomination of Mr Pieter-Alexander De Brock's second alternate. The next item is the vote on the appointment of Mr Pieter-Alexander De Brock's second alternate. Nominations were announced in plenary on 24 October 2019. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 24 October 2019. On 18 November 2019 and 14 September 2020, the special committee responsible for parliamentary accompaniment of the P and R Committees held a hearing of the candidates. Ms Cécile Thibaut reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 16 September 2020. On 18 November 2019 and 14 September 2020 the candidates were heard by the special committee responsible for the parliamentary supervision of Committees P and I. Mrs Cécile Thibaut reported on this hearing at the Conference of Presidents of 16 September 2020. The document containing the names of the candidates has been distributed to you. (878/2) The piece with the names of the candidates was delivered to you. (878/2)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u78	The next item is the counting of the ballot for the appointment of a francophone female member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority. The next item is the vote on the appointment of a French-speaking female member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority. Nominations were announced in plenary on 17 September 2020. Candidates were announced at the plenary session of 17 September 2020. On 6 October 2020, the Justice Committee held a hearing of the candidates. Kristien Van Vaerenbergh reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 7 October 2020. On 6 October 2020 the candidates were heard by the Justice Commission. Ms Kristien Van Vaerenbergh reported on this hearing at the Conference of Presidents of 7 October 2020. The document containing the names of the candidates has been distributed to you. (1563/01) The piece with the names of the candidates was delivered to you. (1563/1) In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 15 October 2020 and the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 October 2020, members were able to vote from Friday 16 October 2020 to today 4 p.m. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 15 October 2020 and the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 October 2020, members were able to vote from Friday 16 October 2020 until 4 p.m. The two youngest members present are invited to attend the counting of the ballots. This will now take place in Room 3. The two youngest members present are invited to attend the vote. This will now take place in Room 3. The results will therefore be announced at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u79	Madam President, when everyone is present, we know who are the youngest, but today it is difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u80	I do believe, Mr Piedboeuf, that an inquiry is under way to find out who are the two youngest members in the House today. As soon as the two youngest members are 'unmasked', the counting can begin.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u81	With regard to the bill (No. 1365) whose amendments have been referred to the committee (Joint Committee on Social Affairs and Health), we are waiting for the results before we begin the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u82	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, MM. Do Van der Donckt and Laaouej want to speak out?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u83	Madam President, Mr Van der Donkt is still on the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the draft provisional twelfths, I therefore propose that you refer to the written report. Several speakers presented themselves for the general discussion. We'll start with Mr. Loones.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for giving me the floor on provisional appropriations. It is the first time since the start of the new government that we have talked about the budget at a serious level here. That's kind of special, isn't it? Moreover, we are not even talking about a full-fledged budget, which was promised. We are talking about the last instalment of provisional appropriations for this year. That is why I have prepared a statement which I am sure colleagues will be glad to see. I would like to take the floor because I believe that the new government has made a false start. In view of the statements made by the members of the government, it seems to me that purple-green likes beautiful promises. Of course, no politician is more holy than the Pope and in the Chamber and in Parliament slogans and fine words sometimes fly around, when we should all be a little more committed to action instead of words. I also believe that this is the shortest way to restore confidence in one another, in society and in politics. In my opinion, what undermines confidence is the fact that politicians promise everything, but ultimately fail to deliver on their promises, that politicians create expectations, but ultimately they fail to deliver. There is a great contrast with what the purple-green government claims to do, namely restore that confidence. I don't see that. The very first purple-green promise was that there would be a new budget. And when would it come? Very soon, she was supposed to be there on October 15th. At the beginning of this month, in an interview on the radio, the Minister of Finance was asked whether the budget would be available on time. His answer was that the budget had to be left, that the government had committed itself in this area and that it would honour that commitment with a tight path, which had to be followed. According to the Minister, it would fulfil its obligations by 15 October. That's what the Minister of Finance promised, but what happened? That promise was broken and the budget was not here on 15 October, which I find special. If I may take a short step, Madam President, which I find special, it is that even the Secretary of State for the Budget is not here. The government is represented by Mrs Dedonder. I hope the Secretary of State is on his way. Anyway, we've seen the first promise. On 15 October 2020, the budget would be there. She's not here. The promise is broken. The Croo government's first promise is broken. There is no budget on 15 October 2020. What was the promise after that? After the first promise came a second promise. That second promise was that the budget would be there and that it would be there by the end of October 2020, i.e. at the end of this week. We have already discussed this on several occasions in the Committee on Finance and the Budget. What is now apparent from the replies of the Minister for the Budget? Nothing at all. The budget will not be there. It will be a matter of concern to the European Union and to the European Commission. However, there is no guarantee that these tables will also be immediately clicked on to the Chamber. Parliament is not taken seriously. It can't be. The second promise has been broken by the current purple-green government. Of course, there will be a third promise. The date of 15 October 2020 will not work and at the end of October it will not work. Now the government promises that the budget will really be ready by the middle of November 2020. We'll see. In the meantime, I see quite a few Members here in the Chamber looking and wondering what this Loones is all about. I'll keep doing that. I will continue to make a tragedy about it, because you should finally understand that it is not appropriate to promise things that you do not deliver. In this way, you will not restore confidence in politics. That's not the style or shouldn't be the style of our house. Is it so bad that the full budget is still not there and we still have to do it with an emergency budget of provisional appropriations? If I'm being honest, that's not so bad. I'm actually not really grieved about it for three reasons. First of all, things keep running. If we did not have the system of provisional credits at our disposal, we would have been in lockdown for more than a year now, not in a coronalockdown, but in a budgetary lockdown or, in fact, a government shutdown. Hospitals could not stay open; police and justice would not be financed; the people would not get their pension, for which they worked so hard. However, thanks to the emergency budget, Belgium can keep up appearances. Looks like this country's still working. The second reason why I do not really think it is a special absolute disaster is that, in the meantime, I welcome the competent Secretary of State - that we still have to do it with provisional appropriations - is the following: as long as the new purple-green tax budget is not yet in place, the Swedish Government is still alive. The peridoe of the Swedish Government is still not over. Actually, she's still not dead and buried. We are still experiencing the consequences of Swedish policy. The centre-right policy is not quite gone yet. This centre-right policy is the basis for the current provisional appropriations. The 2018 budget is still alive. There are worse things imaginable. The third reason why it's still relatively minor is that I know exactly what's coming and that's much worse. We know what will come when the full purple-green budget will be adopted, namely additional taxes and additional debts. The legacy of the Swedish government, at least as long as the N-VA was in that government, i.e. until December 2018, was that the tax burden had fallen, the government debt had fallen and the budget deficit had fallen. In the future, however, we get purple Tita sorcerers, which is the analysis of almost all experts. The new government is counting on it, you're blowing budgetary bubbles and you're making people crazy. In your ultra-positive figures, you do not even take into account the growth estimated by corona and the fact that the Brexit is coming at us. In your positivism, you simply go for absurdism. Overall, the challenge is that there will be a deficit of around EUR 18 billion in 2024. The ambition of purple-green is to bring that down to EUR 12 billion, an exercise of around EUR 6 billion. You need to look for EUR 6 billion, but that does not stop, because you also want to pursue new policies, for around EUR 4 billion. Moreover, according to the Planbureau, that invoice will be higher. However, you have to find some EUR 10 billion, carefully and positively. According to the coalition agreement, you will find this with a third savings, a third new taxes and a third various measures. These various measures are often just new taxes, we all know that. If EUR 10 billion is to be found, it means that at least EUR 3.5 billion of new taxes, up to possibly EUR 7 billion. If we know that this is coming towards us, then it is actually good news that the budget is still not there. In fact, it is good news that we can still discuss provisional appropriations today and that your tax budget is not yet on the table here. That budget is not yet available, because you are failing to keep your promises because you are working too slowly. I once played the piano and I remember playing the Four Seasons of Vivaldi allegro. My piano teacher said that meant lively, speedy. What we see in Parliament, however, is largo, lento, larghissimo, budgetary inertia. However, that is good news, because the slower you work, the longer the Swedish budget lives. I am therefore very pleased with that. So much for the cynical part of my speech, to come to reality now. Otherwise, one would think that I am going to perform a joy dance here because the Swedish budget is still there and I am glad that purple-green is still not really born. Unfortunately, that is also not true, because what do we see? We find that there is a purple-green virus in the walkways and in this room. That's a highly contagious virus. That is a virus that has also infected the provisional twelfths, which has ensured that the provisional twelfths are no longer the legacy of the Swedish Government. There are things that have crept into it that are at odds with the policy that we have always pursued and that are particularly at odds with the outcome of the elections in Flanders. What was the result in Flanders? There were three conclusions. Firstly, the Flemings expect a more right-wing policy. Secondly, they also expect a Flemish policy. Thirdly, they expect politicians to lead by example and, above all, to save on their own. Then I hear the colleagues of purple-green with the promises. We heard that right. We did that analysis, too. We've seen what the voter wants. We're gonna adapt. We're gonna do it differently. We're making changes. Just on those three points, however, you prove that you are doing it no different. Migration, even with these provisional twelfths, does not get tighter, it becomes laxer. The policy does not become more Flemish, on the contrary, you are pleasing for French-speaking wishes. You do not give the example and you do not save on yourself, on the contrary, you reward yourself with extra budgets, with extra posts. I would like to explain to them: firstly, migration, secondly, the language premiums and thirdly, the Cabinets. First of all, migration. What are the facts? As Secretary of State, Theo Francken has pursued a major policy. He has often been criticised for having just pursued a good, firm and strong policy, but his successor, also here in the Chamber, Mrs De Block, rather opted for a softer approach after the Marrakech Pact, in order to weaken a number of issues in Theo Francken's policy. We've seen the result. There have been fewer funds for return and, above all, many more funds have been allocated to asylum reception. Each of the provisional twelfths we have seen that Mrs De Block was given more resources. In total, it received a budget of EUR 427 million for Fedasil in 2020. That is 165 million euros more than Theo Francken and a 63 percent increase in the reception budget. What does Vivaldi say now? We're gonna do it differently. We're gonna go tighter. At least CD&V promises that. There was an interesting interview in De Standaard on October 3 with Joachim Coens, president of CD&V. The journalist asked Mr Coens whether it was right that Mr Mahdi would succeed only if he could raise the return figures. Mr Coens said: that is correct. In the meantime, we have also heard that Mr Mahdi has expressed the same ambition in many newspaper interviews. He'll be more committed to returning. Well, we want to help Mr Mahdi. Mr Mahdi wants to take a flying start. We want to make it possible. We want to ensure that the means of return are brought back to level so that Mr Mahdi can pursue the policy he, so to speak, wishes to pursue, in any case, according to his promises.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u86	Mr Loones, you have mentioned me twice throughout your speech, so I think I can say something back, especially since what you are saying is not the truth at all. You say that Mrs De Block weakened Theo Francken's policy after Marrakesh. Firstly, it is Mr Francken, along with you, who has abandoned a pact that would not change our policies at all. If you're talking about taking responsibility, that can count. I had to ask for additional resources because our administrations had become so poor to people, to workers, that they needed to be strengthened in order to shorten the long waiting lists that were there and to reduce the lead time of asylum applications. Secondly, the greatest effort I have had to make is to close all the loopholes that were there to get people along collateral roads to come here and make sure that people who deserved it were given asylum, and not just to people you and your party were very fond of. That's what I did, and I'm gonna keep defending it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u87	One of the ambitions of this government is to fight fake news. I note, however, that history is not always correctly reflected in this House, but that new histories are being made. At such a time it is best to always return to the things that are clear to everyone. In this case, these are the figures. The budget for asylum reception has increased by 63% under your policy. That is 165 million more for asylum reception than under Mr Francken's policy. The budget for return has fallen by 33% under your policy. That's 3.5 million less. Also in this disc of provisional twelfths there is 550,000 euro less for return. The figures speak for themselves. There's more funding for shelter, less for return, and not even a little bit. Then nice stories can be told about it. Everyone does, as far as I'm concerned. In this respect, however, the facts may prevail. We are ready to make this right with great pleasure. We have tabled amendments to restore the budget for asylum reception to a reasonable level, but above all to raise the return budget. Of this budget, Mr Mahdi himself announced and promised that he would commit more. To live up to that promise, he'll need money. I don't want him to have to wait till next year. Even now, and in the months of November and December, there must be money to deliver on those promises, in order to want and be able to pursue that bold and humane return policy. Our amendment is there. It's enough to approve it. The amendment was voted down in committee. The promise is made, and voted away. There will be a rematch in plenary today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u88	Normally, Mr Vanbesien has the floor first. Mr Vermeersch, do you have something special to say?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u89	I can only confirm Mr Loones' figures. There was indeed an excess of 63% or 166 million extra for Fedasil. Mr Loones is talking about correct figures. He said just now that he was pleased that the Swedish Government's budget continues to run. I also want to confront him with a correct figure. Before there was a corona there was a gap in the budget of EUR 14 billion. That too is a result of the Swedish budget which you seem to welcome. We have started with a pit for corona and we are now experiencing one of the biggest economic crises since World War II. This country wasn't prepared. We didn't have any reserves to deal with this crisis. That is also a crushing responsibility of the Swedish Government, and that can be said here when we are talking about correct figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u90	Madam President, Mr Loones, I would also like to return to the figures you give. You know it in advance and calculate it in advance, you know what I'm about to say. You keep coming back to the fact that Mrs De Block's budget has increased by 160 to 170 million and that Mr Francken has never received this much budget. You've told this story a dozen times. The answer to this has always been as follows. In the 2018 budget, 112 million was used from the reserves for Fedasil, for the shelter, which is not on that line in the budget. In other words, you compare apples to pears. You are mistakenly suggesting that this is the amount by which the budget would have increased under Mrs de Block's policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u91	Madam President, I am glad to be able to take the floor in this interesting debate on the costs of asylum reception in Belgium. It's not true that I've never been budgeted again. In the 2015-2016 asylum year, during the major crisis, the asylum budget was even higher if we want to be intellectually honest. At one point I had an asylum budget of EUR 600 million, only for bed-bath bread, reception budget for Fedasil. We then opened about 100 reception centres in a short time. That wasn't obvious. That didn't go without a fight. That wasn't all. I have opened a large asylum centre in my own congregation. We have taken responsibility. I'm not going to say that Mrs De Block hasn't taken up her responsibilities. I'm not gonna say that. That is why we in the Swedish Government have worked too well to tackle asylum reception. I do think that we should look at what kind of year the asylum year is 2020. In the field of influx there is a very large nod down, because the border is almost closed since March. Asylum rates have been greatly reduced by the fact that the border is closed and there is very little inflow. September was a high inflow month, with 1,900. October's supposed to be too. It is not normal that so much money is needed in such a year for asylum reception, EUR 400 million. That's a lot. Mr Loones is right to complain about this. In a crisis year, extra budget is needed, because the bed-bath bread supply is an international obligation. However, in a year in which there is no European asylum crisis at all and where there is hardly any inflow, we need EUR 400 to 440 million for asylum reception, which is very much. If this government proposes to ensure that the procedures are shorter, I hope so. Every State Secretary or Minister responsible for Asylum and Migration has the ambition to keep the procedures shorter. However, this is mainly due to the influx. I wish the current government every success. Tomorrow I will have another interesting debate with Mr Mahdi. However, this depends on a number of external factors on which we do not have much influence. However, in 2019 and 2020, Belgium could have been more dissuasive in terms of influx. I'll stick with that. My distress campaigns were taken offline and I cannot support some of the interventions at the time. The current government is taking measures again that I cannot support. Mrs De Block made it very clear in her powers at the time that the electronic procedure would be awaited and that the right of reception would only then be granted, not earlier. The first thing Mr Mahdi says is that he will no longer do so, because we have been convicted of it and he is not appealing against it, but following the condemnation. Within the month, Mr Mahdi announced a solution, but in the meantime he allowed reception back from the electronic notification. That's just really fast, let me put it this way. I find that very strange. That will create a suction effect, which one can see coming from here. The asylum budget will therefore not fall, but increase. We will continue to follow this debate over the next few weeks, and as you know, I will continue to monitor that day on a day-to-day basis, and we will certainly continue to follow it up from the N-VA Group. Apart from the debate on whether EUR 120 million has been raised through the reserves of the LOIs and Fedasil, EUR 400 million for asylum reception is disproportionate for a country like Belgium. Why don't you just admit it? That's a lot in a year when the border was three-quarters of the time closed or almost closed. It's just a lot of money.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u92	Mr Loones, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u93	Madam President, I always find it interesting when there is a debate in this House. That was a very expert explanation from Mr Francken. The point he has not touched upon and to which I would like to draw your explicit attention is your commitment to a stronger commitment to more efficient and humane return. That too will cost money, but what are you doing? You cut the budget for the return policy. You're promising something, but you're doing the opposite. You say to Mr Mahdi that he can honk and tattle whatever he wants, but that you do not give him the money, that he can wait until 1 January and that you will see. We don't think that's normal. If you promise anything, make it happen. That is why we are tabling an amendment to increase the return budget again. Mr Vermeersch, the fact that the Vivaldi parties like to keep up appearances makes sense. After all, the new government is still in its honeymoon. But that the opposition can't count either, I think that's punishment. You refer to the fact that there was a budget deficit of EUR 14 billion at the time of the elections. Mr Vermeersch, you may have missed it, but we have not been part of the government for months. What were the figures when N-VA left the government? At that time, the budget deficit was 0.8 %. Look at the figures from the Planning Bureau and the Monitoring Committee. We came from more than 3% with Di Rupo and at the time we left the government, or pushed it, we had reduced the budget deficit to 0.8 %. This meant a deficit of EUR 3 billion. We wanted to continue that socio-economic course, but the other parties said that we should and would go to Marrakesh. The socio-economic wasn't important, we went to Marrakesh. Those are the facts. On the last day that N-VA was still in the government, the budget deficit was 0.8 % and in a few months it tripled to 2.4 %. Why did that happen? Because the government hasn't kept its promises. Even then, this trend was used. You made a promise and you didn't do it. What did we agree to in the Swedish Government? In the summer of 2018, we had made a job deal, a Summer Agreement, which led to a series of reforms. They would make the budget course even more positive. What happened the first day after N-VA was no longer in government? You kicked out that reform agenda. It was immediately clear who took care of the dash in Swedish policy, who was the strongest force for reform, who made promises and who wanted to keep them. In addition, I should like to conclude by saying that, Madam President, we wanted to keep that promise. Even after the fall of the Michael Government, our group leader in plenary said that we were still available to support the budget, provided that it was the budget that we had promised to the people and that we had agreed to, including the Summer Agreement and including the job deal, but you did not want that. You didn't want that, and we now see the consequences of that. Yes, Mr Vermeersch, the budget deficit has risen tremendously. This is achieved with parties that do not want to reform, but it is also achieved with parties that are not able to compete well, because they cannot count. I advise you to acquire at least the ability and the ability to consult the date on an agenda. Look at 8 December 2018: the fall of the government and then look at May 2019 and then you will see the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u94	Mr Loones, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that they are the last provisional twelfths. I am very happy about that, because in most discussions on the provisional twelfths I experience a nice Latin adage, namely repetitio est mater studioum or repetition, repetition, repetition. I thought that the discussion on a budget and even on provisional twelfths was a debate on tomorrow's expenditure and, as far as the provisional twelfths are concerned, in order to allow us to get paid necessary and unavoidable expenditure. I note that in many of the debates on the provisional twelfths we have had in recent months, this debate, once again, seems to be no exception to the debate on the past. I would like to correct one more thing, Mr Loones. I will continue to defend every budget that I voted with in the last parliamentary term, but I would have liked to defend another one, namely the budget that we approved together in committee at the time, but which you did not then approve in plenary. You are now referring to the degressivity of unemployment benefits, which has not yet been implemented as a stumbling block in the budgetary field, and you say that this degressivity would have resulted in budgetary phenomena, but the degressivity was even budget-neutral. That was the political agreement we made in the summer. You're talking about facts. The facts are that you approved that budget in committee and did not approve it in plenary. The sterile discussion that you left or started walking, which is true, or that we supposedly pushed you out, I find all the discussions of the past. Let's talk about tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u95	Mr Verherstraeten, you are right: a debate on the provisional twelfths should be a neutral debate. That should not be a major political, ideological debate. That should be about just translating the legislation as it is in budgetary tables. It should be, but it's not. Why not? Because you didn't work neutrally with that budget. From the moment when N-VA was no longer in the government, you started to pursue policies that undermined the policies we have pursued years before. You have even worked very actively to do other things from the moment N-VA was no longer there. Degressivity is perhaps one of the best examples. I think that's sincere. The royal decree was literally ready in the drawer of the Minister of Work, Mr. Peeters of CD&V. It was ready. It was agreed, we promised that we would. The text was written, but Mr Peeters never opened that drawer and dared to submit the text. However, that was agreed. That will ensure that this is a political debate, Mr Verherstraeten. This means that what we have been experiencing for a year now is actually a sham democracy. You act as if there is a logical continuation, but with bits and pieces you inject all the promise culture and the purple-green virus into this budget. You are simply satisfied that N-VA is gone and the virus can be inserted into it. We do not think that is a good thing. That is why, Mr Vanbesien, we are constantly revolting against this. You act like you're just running neutral politics here, but you're really making policy choices here. You opt for a laxer migration policy and expect us to approve it. Well, we won't. You opt for a labour market policy that does not reform sufficiently, even if it was agreed. You expect us to approve that, but we do not. We think that if you make promises, you have to keep them, too. That brings me to the next point of my speech, Madam President. First promise: migration and all that has happened. The second point concerns another analysis of the electoral results, namely that it may be a bit more Flemish. A little more respect for Dutch, a little more Flemish policy. I found a nice, pleasant passage in the coalition agreement: there needs to be more appreciation for a better knowledge of the country's languages. You have the ambition to show greater appreciation for this, so also more respect for Dutch, I hope, and then especially in our capital city Brussels. How does one do that? How does one respect the language and especially the Dutch language in Brussels? It is done by rewarding those who make the effort to learn a language, Dutch, and by using a language test to prove that they can speak the other language and obtain a certificate, with a language premium. This was the policy of the Swedish Government, of which we were part. Minister Jambon was the minister responsible at the time. Whoever makes an effort and gets a language certificate, we reward with a premium. What did the Wilmès government do? What's the government doing today? She's doing the opposite. A language attestation is not expected to be obtained. Language premiums are simply awarded to people who cannot submit such a certificate. More than EUR 32 million has been earmarked for this in the past and today. What kind of signal does that send? Is it sending out the message that multilingualism is taken seriously, that it is rewarding people who are trying to learn another language, who are trying to take that test, who are trying to get that certificate? No, you're not giving that signal. You just give the signal: go ahead, say you speak another language and we'll just give you some extra money. If you think that gives an incentive to show more respect for Dutch in our capital, then you live in another world. But don't worry, we have a solution. The amendment is on the table to return to the neutral policy we have pursued, Mr Verherstraeten. In this way, we are making real provisional appropriations out of this, not a political instrument, not a purple instrument, and we are again raising Swedish policy, which is the logic itself. Whoever has a certificate, we shall reward him with a premium. The third signal from the electorate in the elections was that politicians set a good example. Especially in times of crisis, we should first look at ourselves and set a good example. Perfectly means stopping postings for themselves to create. I think that's the most striking part of the speech. What's the logic supposed to be? The logic is that provisional appropriations should continue the Swedish policy and policy of the Wilmès Government, a government composed of 13 Cabinets. What are you doing? You make the political choice to go to 20 cabinets. It can't be on. From 13, hopla, you go to 20 Cabinets, 20 Ministers and Secretary of State. However, there is good news. There's only one budget for 13 cabinets. Mr Verherstraeten, you will agree with me here - a neutral political exercise, which should not contain any ideological choice. We must not change that. There's a budget for 13 cabinets. By 2020, you will have to do it with a budget for 13 cabinets. However, you want to do it with 20 cabinets. I had a very pleasant discussion with Mrs De Bleeker in committee, in which I indicated to her that she would do best with the Prime Minister. After all, there was some unpleasant news to be given to the fellow ministers. At least 40% of them would not be paid or should do so with a smaller budget. Mrs. De Bleeker, I see that you haven't done a cross or a coin with the Prime Minister. You've made mint and mint. What do we see? You are making another political choice. You are not sticking to the provisional appropriations for 13 Cabinets. You're raising that to a budget for 20 Cabinets. Do you know what the most scandalous thing is? You do not do that openly with an amendment, but through a back door. You do that through the back door of the interdepartmental commissions. That's what pisses me off. We've been using these commissions here for months in a row, to fight the war against corona. We are now pumping in a total of EUR 4 billion with the provisional appropriations we have before us to fight against corona. But what do you do with these commissions? You raise the budgets for your own cabinets, to go from 13 to 20 cabinets, to pay extra posts, to pay extra. You do that with the pennies that are actually meant for corona. That's inappropriate. If you do, do it out in the open. Come out for it. Put in an amendment here in Parliament to increase the budget for your cabinets. However, you do not. We need the splendid work of Mr Joy Donné to look it up, because you do not do so openly. Two days ago, Minister of Finance Van Peteghem declared that he would come up with a citizen survey, which is a wonderful project. He motivated this by stating that the government opts for transparency and that it will share information with the citizen as early as possible in the legislative project. Everyone gets the same information at the same time. There will be no more lobby groups. Everyone will be equal. Mrs. De Bleeker, what do we see here? We see a loophole in the way in which our own government appropriations are deliberately increased. After all, I made the point with you in committee. It wasn't settled then. After our speech together with Mr Donné in committee, this was done through the commissions. Coronacents for own political posts, that's the style of Vivaldi. Words, words, words, a thin layer of varnish of vain promises. It's definitely not my style. If you still have the balls to do it open and bare, but you don't even do it. I'm coming to the end of my speech. What are we going to do? I would like to make four specific points, Madam President. Then you can start the countdown. A number of points can be made immediately, and I would also like to give some tips for the future, for the full purple-green budget. What could happen immediately? Quite simply, approve our amendments. These are not major political amendments. These are amendments which do exactly what is appropriate to bring back the policy where it was with provisional twelfths and to re-establish the political ideology, that virus. With our amendments, you will effectively re-establish tighter migration, for more money for return. You will once again ensure respect for Dutch, especially in our capital city. You will take care of content again, instead of continuing your cabinets. This can now be done immediately, but I would also like to mention three tips which should have been on the table by now, but which could certainly be useful for the budgetary discussions that we may be having in the future. Firstly, please start thinking already about measures to control public debt. The public debt in Belgium amounts to 524 billion. It's never been this high. It is more than 115 % of GDP, the highest level since 1999. But in absolute terms: 524 billion is a record, never was the sovereign debt so high. It's true, there's the corona pandemic, there's crisis spending, we have to make investments. That's right. We therefore support the use of the billion for this purpose. You have our support for that. But we must not forget that these debts will have to be repaid in the future. When we were part of the government, we made a point of this. In 2018, Mr Vermeersch, we were still part of the government and we managed to bring public debt below 100 percent. Since then, that debt has gone up, and now really in exploding terms. We really need to get it under control. Those are concerns, I believe, of all of us. A dossier that we would very much like to put back on the table is the sale of non-strategic assets and public participations. A government isn't supposed to do everything. For example, a government should not be a banker. There are real opportunities to pull us back as a government, to be a little more modest and also to get some revenue so that the public debt can be brought back under control. Of course, we shouldn't be naive. We have to do it wisely. It must be about non-strategic matters. It must be sold if the market conditions are favourable. It should also be taken into account that dividends are not already available. Apart from that, there's got to be. I have also referred to this in committee. It is very strange that the sale of non-strategic assets was explicitly provided for in Mr Lachaert and Mr Rousseau's information note. It literally said that this would happen under those conditions. That's not in the coalition agreement anymore. That paragraph just disappeared. I asked the Minister of Finance about this. He replied that it was not in the coalition agreement, but that it did not rule out that it might still be done in the future. That was actually good. Mrs De Bleeker was more explicit and referred to the fact that her children no longer used the swing and that it was put on the market. One should not hold on to something that one does not need. That was actually quite a metaphor. Mrs De Bleeker, I hope that this is also the approach you will take. In committee, I immediately asked whether your children would not have received a much more expensive gift than that swing. You have confirmed that this is not the case. On the contrary, they will have to work for their toys, even though they are still young. That might be babysitting. I thought it was a good metaphor. I hope, but I am actually convinced that you are open to that debate. I expect the same from the Minister of Finance. We all have to look at what the government should be doing and not what it's doing. What is not necessary can be put effectively on the market to bring down public debt. Mrs De Bleeker, I would like to call on you to read the French-speaking press very carefully and to look in particular at what is happening in the French Community. Last week there was an interview in the Walloon media with Mr Dardenne, the Minister for the Budget of the French Community Government. He said literally: 'The budget of the French Community will never be in balance'. He did not say that this applies to this legislature or to the next legislature. He has said that this will never be the case. The budget of the French Community will never be in balance. It was meant to be. The French Community is also working on a purple-green coalition. A government that has no ambition whatsoever to do anything to achieve a sound budget is a danger to all of us. The French Community already has a debt of EUR 7 billion and next year it will be EUR 10 billion. By the end of the legislature, this will even be EUR 14 billion. These are not my figures, they are the figures of the Minister for the Budget, Mr Daerden. We should all be concerned about doubling the debt of the French Community in a single legislative period. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to call on you to keep an eye on this because there is something very wrong there. There is one final point about the budget, namely Brussels. Look not only at the French Community, but also at Brussels. What's going on out there? Brussels has another plan to send the invoices to someone else and have them paid. Now it's actually double bad because they want us to pay their invoices twice, even worse than before. What is the financing of Brussels today? They have their own funding but on top of that there are still resources because Brussels is a capital city and many commuters work from Flanders and Wallonia. The city receives special grants and grants for this purpose, for example an annual donation of EUR 143 million. Since 2012, Brussels has already received more than EUR 1 billion specifically for mobility, as Flemings and Walen work there and thus also use public transport. Every year we give Brussels almost EUR 150 million for mobility in Brussels. On top of that, Brussels also receives a shuttle correction, a typical institutional dossier. This is a compensation for the thousands of commuters who come to Brussels from other Länder. Brussels' reasoning is that commuters are actually a burden, a cost for which they must be compensated. The reality is, of course, different, just walk around Brussels and see how few people are on the streets and how the catering industry is suffering. It is immediately apparent that commuters are not only a burden but also a real blessing for our capital city. Soit, for Brussels, the commuters are a burden. They want to be compensated for this, and so do we. In addition to these 140 million euros for mobility, we also pay a shuttle correction, a total of about 50 million euros each year, some 27 million euros of which come from Flanders. So we are paying huge sums of money every year for the people who come from Flanders and Wallonia to work in Brussels. What's the plan now? We are going to introduce a city toll that will have to pay half a billion euros from 2022. Madam Secretary of State, I am already telling you, I hope that Brussels will not impose its invoices twice on us, that the Flemings will be allowed to pay for a city toll and that we will continue to pay for capital financing, for this shuttle correction, for the mobility contributions that we have been paying to Brussels every year. That would be, and I hope we all agree on that, particularly inappropriate, to compensate taxpayers' money twice for the same case. That leads me to the absolute conclusion of this argument. I like Brussels. Brussels is our capital. It is also the capital of Flanders. It is good that we are financing Brussels. It is good that we like Brussels. However, ladies and gentlemen, I really do wonder if that love is still mutual. I really wonder whether Brussels still wants to be the capital of this country. If that is the case, I hope that the Brussels Government will consult with the other Länder better and more, and also with the federal government. There are limits to everything, including borders on Brussels. That concludes my speech, which has started cynically, but in which some very concrete proposals have been put forward. Our specific amendments, which have been distributed to all of you in the meantime, are not very political, but they are intended to bring the provisional twelfths back into the dimension to which they should actually belong, a neutral political policy instrument. I call on you to read our amendments in detail and to approve them in the vote. Even more, I call on you to reconsider all the purple-green plans that have been agreed and the taxes that are coming towards us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u96	Madam President, I would like to make a point about the diatribe that we have just heard. I have a great deal of respect for Sanders Loones, with whom I am pleased to discuss matters in the Finance Committee, etc. But when I hear this marked attack, I think of a great French biologist called Henri Laborit. He wrote a book from which a film was drawn, My Uncle of America. In his book L'Eloge de la fuche, he describes, on the basis of the observation of rats whose behavior he transposes to society the human, the behaviour which consists, in the face of a difficulty, always to flee in order to try to find an element of different pleasure. When I hear Mr. Loones, I think of the government in which our two parties were involved. At the time, we thought we had worked well, even if our current friends didn't necessarily think so. While we were gone to continue the work started, you found yourself in front of the wall described by Henri Laborit and you decided to leave by pretexting Marrakech. This is a hedonic choice that we can understand. But we must not come back after that by evoking all the things that have had to be done to manage our country. You left, you left. When someone is around the table and decides to leave the room, then he must not ruble about what is decided in the room when he is no longer there. Stop resenting your regrets about the fact that you're gone. I believe, moreover, sincerely that you were wrong to do so. You used a bad excuse. You made a hedonic choice that was right for you. Now we have to stop resassing. As far as we are concerned, we have decided to continue. You don't like it, I can understand it. But we have had to deal with obligations, with increases in expenditure. We did not do so to implement a policy that you now characterize as "new policy Vivaldi", etc., but because we did not have much choice. I have heard again in cauda venenum that you mentioned to the Minister for the Budget the situation in the French Community and the remark made by Minister Dardenne. First, as you know, Wallonia and the French-speaking world have made a choice. One may disagree with this choice, which was to make a Region and a Community. Why? Because there was still a willingness to defend Francophones and the Francophonie in relation to situations that were not always easy. It is clear that having two institutions - the Region and the Community - costs more. It is certain that the Community is not financed to meet all its expenditure, but the Region is there, and the Region is helping the Community. Stigmating budgetary adjustments now and stigmatizing a future budget because the French Community would be in deficit is a bad fight. We know that and we're obviously working on it. It is true that we have the same color as in the current government, but we are still trying to do better, contrary to what you think. You always have the kind of arrogance to think that you are doing everything better than everyone else and above all better than Francophones who are lazy, who are this, who are that! You would have to come to us a little bit more often to realize that the reality is different from what you're talking about. She's totally different. We probably have a mentality that is actually, at times, more permissive and welcoming, but we are proud of that mentality. We have to stop stigmatizing all the time. You're talking about Brussels, but we love Brussels, too. If there's a problem with commuters, you know what? In Wallonia and in the province of Luxembourg which is my province, we have land and it is cheap. We're gonna relocate a lot of things to our house. It will cost less in Brussels and we will have activities at home. We have to stop these reasonings. I would rather actually discuss the budget and how we are going to get out of this crisis than ever hear anti-francophone and anti-government diatribes, a government that has had to assume obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u97	I'd like to join in on this. To put it in French, qui va à la chase, perd sa place. Mr Loones, you wanted to hunt the voices of the Flemish Interest, but the direction indicator was turned in the opposite direction. Translated into Dutch, it would be said that whoever walks away from his responsibilities loses his credibility to teach others the lesson. You are so keen to talk about the past, as Mr Verherstraeten said. You love to talk about respect. I would like to say that we show a great deal of respect by listening patiently to your repetitions and repetitions of past stories, perhaps to deal with the trauma of the unwanted role of opposition. If I may give you a tip, transcend that, your talent deserves better.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u98	Madam President, Mr Loones, honestly, I did not intend to speak specifically. We've already had the debates on social networks. I would like to answer some points in relation to Brussels. You say very regularly that you love Brussels. And I think it's pretty nice to hear. All right! I am not asking for all our citizens to love our capital. You know that I am myself from Brussels and I love this city, this Region, like all the other beautiful regions of the country. We're very federalist. But that's not my point. I just wanted to say that, on the one hand, you are proclaiming your love for Brussels in the press and elsewhere, and, on the other hand, you are making repeated attacks which still reflect a certain contempt, or even a deconsideration, to say so without using too strong words. You say you love Brussels and then you often come out of inaccurate things, clichés, attacks in good order in relation to a capital which, in your remarks, is rather a weight, a ball for you. As far as languages are concerned, I think multilingualism is an absolute wealth. As you know, Brussels has more than 100 nationalities today with almost as many languages and it is an absolute wealth. In addition, Dutch-speaking Brusselsers are particularly well represented politically in Brussels. They're even protected and I'm proud of it. I am proud, as a Francophone, Brussels, Belgian, European, that Brussels accounts for the most protected linguistic minority in the world, or almost. I am proud of this and Ecolo-Groen is a strong advocate of this. At the administrative level, we can always do better at other levels. There is never a bad effort in terms of encouraging bilingualism and multilingualism, moreover. Again, who blocks bilingual schools in Brussels? It's not Ecolo-Groen. They are the nationalists, especially the Flemish, your party. Who blocks bilingual lists, the fact that people who speak different languages are on the same list in Brussels? It's not Ecolo-Groen. It's the nationalists! At some point, multilingualism... really! I would like to debate in Dutch or French and possibly also in English. Let's definitely do that. But then, we must also really, politically, take action to encourage it. And here, really, I expect you at the turning point on bilingual schools, on bilingual lists, on more bilingualism at all levels, at the level of the Brussels Region and not just at the level of administration. The second point is in relation to the urban toll project that you criticize very strongly and that you actually see as a tax, when it is absolutely not that, and you know that. I think you know that. You're someone who keeps up with the news and is smart. So you understand that this measure is related to air quality, traffic jams, better living in a region, in a multinational city – in the sense of several nationalities – of more than one million inhabitants. Stockholm did the same thing, as you know. London, although obviously the scale is much higher than its level. Stockholm is a better example. This is an environmental project. That's the first thing. This is obviously not a tax project. And it is a project that must be carried out within the framework of a federalism of cooperation. Of course, it is not a concept that is dear to you, but for us it is! Indeed, this project will be carried out in consultation with the Flemish and Walloon governments. It is in this spirit that we will work. You're talking about economy and commuters. You are right: commuters are important for Brussels, and no one in Brussels, whom I know in any case, sees commuters as a charge – een last, as you say. It's also a chance. I am happy, as Brussels, that the capital attracts so many people to work, in the case of commuters, but also on the weekend, for cultural and other events, when we are not in the current health period. At the tourist level too, really, it makes me happy. This federalism of cooperation is obviously fundamental, because Brussels is not an island. That is the objective: to be able to make it an environmental measure, positive for the country as a whole. Because at the economic level, do you know how much traffic congestion costs a year? In Brussels alone, it is EUR 1 billion a year. And at the national level, unless I'm mistaken – and these are figures from the FEB, not from the Ecolo study centre – traffic jams cause between €5 billion and €6 billion in losses per year. It's a good project, actually! A project with an environmental approach to reduce the pressure of the car is a good project. That's where I was coming from, too. Please, in Brussels, we can debate for a long time, we will not do it here, I did not intend to do it, but at some point, too much is to be done. Some things still have to be recognized. And I'm waiting for you on bilingual schools, I'm waiting for you on speeches, too, from your party colleagues who highlight Brussels. I am waiting for you on this and then we will have a real, healthy, adult and constructive discussion on the future of Brussels, the capital of our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u99	Mr Leysen, you expressed your surprise that the N-VA has left the government. I understand your surprise, because contrary to what we are now finding, including in the coalition agreement, the N-VA does have a lower limit that it does not go under. The fact that you, as a Vld'er, are telling the opposite story today, even as regards budgetary discipline in your purple-green project, which you mentioned a few weeks ago, makes me suspect that you will not leave this government under any circumstances in the following years, because there will be no lower limit for you. That is indeed the difference with the N-VA. Mr Vanden Burre, I'm getting almost emotional. Fédéralism de coopération, bilingusm en multilingusm, can you tell me against the background of all these beautiful principles why both Ecolo and Groen have a deputy prime minister in this government? If this cooperation is so great, why can't Mrs De Sutter observe the Deputy Prime Minister for you? We would then solve a part of the problem we have just discussed, in particular the huge number of posts you create, because it seems that your Belgian feeling is a lot less when it comes to trusting your green colleagues to represent you in the nuclear cabinet. I find that very special, because when it comes to it, you are simply a confederalist, Mr Vanden Burre.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin and finish with Mr Piedboeuf and address Mr Vanden Burre and Mr Leysen in between. I would like to begin and finish with you, Mr Piedboeuf, because you are one of my most favorite colleagues. You do politics with style and class, based on content as well, and with great honesty. You are the only colleague today - we will see what the rest of the debate brings - who honestly says that after the departure of N-VA you started working with this government, that you had a new policy with Prime Minister Michel and then with Prime Minister Wilmès, which you broke with the Swedish Government's policy. That is the essence of my speech. We are not talking about provisional twelfths here, we are talking about a bogus budget. Provisional twelfths would be the neutral translation of the policy pursued. This isn't it. Policy choices have been made. It is to your credit that you are in favour of this, Mr Piedboeuf. It would also adorn others if they were to defend those choices a little more. Mr Leysen, I will not repeat your comments, I will leave it that way, because I do not want to answer at the same level. Mr Vanden Burre, I like Brussels. I lived in and around Brussels for ten years: in Molenbeek, Jette and then in the Flemish Rand, in Dilbeek. There is indeed a balance in this country, where the Dutch speakers in Brussels are given their equal place, as the French speakers in this House can use all the locks, blocking mechanisms and everything on top of them, such as alarm bells. That balance is indeed there, but what bothers me is the word respect. I hadn't used that word yet, but I'm using it now. Last weekend there was the policy statement in the Brussels Parliament. I have a quote from this policy statement: 'Brussels is an international city and, as an international city, Brussels is, of course, a multilingual city'. The Brussels Government's policy paper therefore states that the language used in Brussels is French and that many other languages are also spoken. The Dutch language is therefore at the same level as the other languages spoken in Brussels. That is the respect we get today in our capital. I don't think that's normal. I don't think it's normal that this is today's situation. You are talking about the city toll and you say that this is a purely ecological project, with an impact on mobility. We can also read the figures. What's the situation today? Today's Brussels entry into service brings in EUR 200 million per year. And what do you want to do? You come up with a proposal to get EUR 500 million out of it every year. Half a billion is more than a doubling. There is no shift in policy, this is just a flat tax increase. It is a flat tax increase, even though all this can be motivated with all kinds of goals. Best thing is, I'm not really against it. I find it pleasurable if Brussels should assume its responsibility, and I think it would be nice if Brussels should pursue its own policy, but at its own responsibility and at its own expense. You cannot expect your own policy, but the invoice will continue to send it to us. I can't, and I'm suing. If Brussels wants to do it itself, I personally agree perfectly, but it is not correct to double invoicing. Why should the federal government continue to provide EUR 150 million in mobility budget and EUR 50 million in commuting, on top of the capital grants, if you take responsibility yourself? That's not correct. Mr. Piedboeuf, that brings me to lock you up. I do like Wallonia. I'll get there myself. The imagery that likes to be performed as if N-VA is of the opinion that Flanders is better than Wallonia, bothers me. We don't think so. Well, we think we're different. We make different policy choices and have other political ground flows. That does not mean that one is better than the other. We are not saying that at all. On the contrary, as far as I am concerned, Wallonia and Brussels can make their own choices perfectly, as I said earlier, but at their own responsibility and at their own expense. That is the way serious people do politics. Ladies and gentlemen, we will certainly continue to put on the table a policy with a vision, but also a policy based on facts. We are right to be concerned about this. After all, we are in the country with a government that will increase its public debt from EUR 7 billion to EUR 14 billion in five years. We don't think that's normal. We are indeed concerned when we see inter-departmental commissions, intended for corona, being used to finance Cabinets, through a back door, in the sneaking. We don't think that's normal. These are truths that may be expressed regularly in the house of democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u101	Madam President, I promise that my speech will be shorter than that of my predecessor. After all, we must bear in mind that there will soon be a curfew in Brussels. I wouldn't want us to stay here until tomorrow morning. Colleagues, a discussion about the provisional twelfths is starting to resemble an episode of FC De Champions, especially those episodes of FC De Champions that you have seen so often that you can cancel the dialogues while the episode is playing. Ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago, at the beginning of the committee meeting in which we were to discuss the provisional twelfths, I noted that the N-VA had not tabled any amendments. I then went to the N-VA committee and asked them if they were not prepared to table amendments. The answer was that they would. They would submit them immediately and we would get a copy five minutes after that. I replied at the time that it was not really necessary. After all, I could write them down myself. I wrote them down. Five minutes later I got the amendments and it was bingo: FC The Champions. I spoke to Mr Loones about this yesterday. Mr Loones promised me that he would try to surprise me today. I must confess that this has not really been done. Mr Loones, in both the amendments you tabled and the speech you gave, I have read or heard few new or pleasantly surprising things. I hope that we will get that surprise later. Colleagues, the first committee meeting to be held during the current legislature was the Finance and Budget Committee in July 2019. The provisional twelfths were on the agenda for August, September and October 2019. At that time, our group decided on its position on the provisional twelfths. Since then, we have consistently maintained this attitude. Mr. Loones, what was that attitude? That attitude was that we are not a fan of the provisional twelfths, which are based on the 2018 budget, which is a budget of the Swedish Government and a budget which at that time did not include a budget for thirteen Cabinets but for eighteen or twenty Cabinets. The original basis for those provisional twelfths therefore contains about the same number of cabinets. At that time, we made an assessment and our sense of responsibility was greater than our disgust with that budget, and that is why we decided that we would support the provisional twelfths on the basis of that budget. That is exactly the opposite attitude as that of the N-VA: the N-VA contributed to the 2018 budget, but the provisional twelfths based on that it did not approve. Mr Loones, you say that thanks to the provisional twelfths our country will continue to run, that thanks to the provisional twelfths we will not go into a shutdown and that thanks to the provisional twelfths the spirit of the Swedish Government will remain in Parliament, but you will not approve the provisional twelfths. Then you tell other colleagues that they create expectations that they do not meet. We have no lessons to learn from you in that regard. You also say, Mr Loones, that the new budget that is to come is not the Swedish budget and that it is therefore a good thing that it is not going to be there for a while. Of course, that is not a Swedish budget, because the Swedish Government and Members of Parliament no longer have a majority. The population did not like your knäckebröd, so no Swedish budget. In our assessment of the provisional twelfths, we said that we would approve them, reluctantly, on the basis of the 2018 budget, and we have always insisted that we have done so, as Mr Verherstraeten and others have always done, that there should be a full government with full powers on the basis of a parliamentary majority as soon as possible. Finally, we have reached this stage, and so for the last time, against our will but with a sense of responsibility, we will approve a 2018 Swedish government budget. However, we are particularly looking forward, Madam Secretary of State, to the first real budget of this new legislature, which is coming soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u102	Mr Vanbesien, I am a little disappointed that I have had to repeat the same speech a number of times, because during months of working with discs, the point had to be made over and over again that these are not provisional twelfths. I regret that you do not show the same honesty as Mr Piedboeuf and that you do not recognise that these are actually not provisional twelfths, but that politics has been done. There has been a policy that was different from that of Swedish policy. We have always come up with the same amendments to get them out again. I am sorry that you did not confirm that in your speech. What I do not regret, but remarkable, is that you say that people no longer like us knäckebröd. It may have escaped you, but the Fleming does not like your knäckebröd either. In any case, there is no majority in favour of this government on the Flemish side. And that will be much less when everyone realizes which tax avalanche is coming towards Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, Friday, the purple-green government must submit its budget to Europe. In the meantime, we in Parliament must give our approval for the provisional twelfths for November and December. A period of provisional twelfths is closed, but certainly not for the last time. As the governor of the National Bank said this summer in an interview in De Tijd: "In Belgium, political instability has become structural, we only have a full government for two or three years." He's right, of course. It was from December 2017 that a full budget was approved here in Parliament. We are paying a huge price for this political instability today. We are aware of this once again now that we have been in one of the biggest crises since the Second World War. The political class in this country has failed badly. It has not been able to stand strong when an unprecedented crisis approaches us. Belgium has started the corona crisis with a huge financial well. This country wasn't prepared. Many people, workers and employers in this country will pay the price for this for many years to come. Countries such as the Netherlands and Germany can do much more today for their businesses and residents, because of course they have the necessary reserves. This provisional appropriation includes an additional 1 billion to offset the effects of the corona crisis. In recent months, we have already released EUR 3 billion. A fourth billion will be added to that. 2 billion have already been spent, but there are still a lot of expenditure on the shelf, including about 860 million in RIZIV expenditure, especially for the reimbursement of the many corona tests. We can understand that, but there is also EUR 300 million reserved for SNCB. Madam Secretary of State, you literally said in committee that it would be mainly about hygiene measures, such as cleaning the carriages. However, for us EUR 300 million seems to be an enormous amount of money for cleaning the carriages, hence my specific question. Madam Secretary of State, can you explain the amount of EUR 300 million for SNCB today? The commission will also be used to finance part of the catering envelope. That's what you said in the Finance Committee last Tuesday. Two weeks ago, the conciliation committee decided that the catering industry in this country should close its doors again for at least four weeks. Immediately, the federal government announced that it would release 500 million euros for the sector, with a crisis envelope. Last Tuesday, you explained to the committee that this money would go to three measures: firstly, a double right of bridging for self-employed workers, secondly, the financing of the end-of-year staff contribution and, thirdly, compensation for the RSZ contributions in the third quarter of 2020. Of course, that will not be enough. It will take much more to drag our heavily affected catering industry through the crisis. This applies equally to many other sectors which are directly affected and also to many forgotten sectors. The Flemish interest will stand for all these sectors. That is also what my colleague Reccino Van Lommel is doing in the Committee on Economic Affairs, where he has held a whole series of interviews. What we lack for the catering industry, Madam Secretary of State, is a clear plan to drag these companies through the crisis. In the short term, we must strengthen the liquidity, the cash position of these companies. In the medium term, we must support and frame the solvency, balance sheets and financial health of these companies. In the long term, of course, we must strengthen the profitability and profitability of the sector. We were therefore surprised that the majority last week welcomed our proposal to permanently and structurally reduce VAT in the hospitality sector to 6%, not to mention in the Finance Committee, let alone to support such a necessary measure for the sector. I mentioned it at the beginning of my speech, just because the gathered political class in the Parliament has failed to prepare for a crisis, there is now supposedly no money to support our people and businesses vigorously. You had no plan to prepare for the crisis, and you have no plan to deal with the crisis today. The Flemish Interest will come up with a catering plan itself, to avoid a social and economic massacre in the sector. Restaurants are an indispensable link in our social life, courtesy supplier of cosiness and home port of countless clubs and associations in our country. Nothing is as Flemish as a brown bar or a cozy bistro. The sector provides 135 000 jobs and they need to be protected. We are on the side of the entrepreneurs in the catering industry, who give the best of themselves day and night. The traditional political class in this country has abandoned them for years. While there is apparently too little money here in Parliament to help and support our own people, to drag our own businesses through an unprecedented crisis, the money on the other hand is being thrown over for asylum seekers. In 2020, half a billion euros went to Fedasil. There's a lot of money being thrown at Fedasil, and for us, it's got to stop. In times of crisis, only one rule should apply to a government, namely to save on asylum, not to our own people. I can't explain it to people today who lose their jobs and to self-employed people who see their business break their dream, that half a billion euros go to asylum. It has to be and can be different. Whoever thought the corona crisis would reduce the cost of Fedasil is for the trouble. Thanks to these provisional appropriations, we can make the final statement for a number of departments, including Fedasil. We see that this year's state treasury paid almost half a billion euros for Fedasil, more than 200 million euros more than originally budgeted. The budget gap is huge and can only be tackled if one dares to name the major cost items, including the cost of migration. The increasing migration bill is one of the many reasons why the budget was derailing long before corona. According to Minister Van Peteghem, the long-awaited study on the cost of migration will be completed in November 2020. In the meantime, however, we know that anyone who thinks that they can calculate the full cost of migration is for the effort. The full cost of migration also remains a taboo for this purple-green government. Neither the coalition agreement nor the statements of the new Secretary of State show any ambition to halt the massive influx. That way, of course, it keeps mopping with the money tap open. Where there is still money being thrown over the bar, it is for its own cabinets. The government promised us a new political culture. What do we see in practice? The new government is no less than a quarter more expensive than the previous government. While the citizens in this country are trying to make ends meet, while the entrepreneurs in this country count every penny, the government has an additional minister, an additional Secretary of State and no less than seven Deputy Prime Ministers, each with a double cabinet. From 13 Cabinets we go to no less than 20 Cabinets. In the meantime, therefore, we know what new political culture means here: more ministers and cabinets for the losers of the elections, and that in times of crisis! We are not going to be able to explain that outside of Parliament either. There's mopping here with the money tap open. The provisional appropriations also provide for 8.5 million euros for cabinet costs, but this commission will be used to cover the last costs of the Wilmès government, such as the redundancy allowance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u104	Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about the balance of social security. Mr Jean-Marie Dedecker is no longer here, but he announced last week in an interview in the newspaper of West Flanders that he will leave Parliament, unfortunately, in the long term. He also mentioned the fact that MEPs were not taken into account. The contempt for Parliament, that's what he called it. During the discussion of provisional appropriations in committee, an amendment for more than EUR 10 billion was tabled at the plenary session to close the gap in social security. The Court of Auditors hasn't even made any effort to advise that amount. With one pin stroke of EUR 10 billion in the middle of a meeting, without the opinion of the Court of Auditors: what a contempt for Parliament and especially Belgian surrealism at the top! For the least opposition bill, many opinions are requested by the majority parties, but a majority amendment of EUR 10 billion is being pushed through Parliament without any financial or democratic control. Let us be clear that the Flemish interest is in favour of strong social security, but the debate must be conducted thoroughly, because there are great efficiency gains to be made. Firstly, through the decisive division of social security, Flemish solidarity in Flemish hands, secondly, through a separate social security for newcomers, Flemish solidarity first for our people. Colleagues, we will not approve of what is going on here. The political class in this country has never prepared this crisis. That is the collective responsibility of the traditional parties. Now that we are in an unprecedented crisis, the government has no clear plan to drag our own people and our own businesses through the crisis. On the other hand, the money is being thrown over for asylum seekers and the cabinets of the electoral losers. As if all this is not enough, these provisional twelfths are being chased by Parliament with contempt for Parliament and without sufficient control. We will therefore not support these provisional twelfths.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u105	Mr President, the CD&V Group will support the draft law for the provisional twelfths. This is the eighth and final version of provisional twelfths. As in the past, we also take responsibility here. We take responsibility because it is absolutely necessary and necessary for the government to be able to function in the coming months, November and December, including important amounts for taking corona measures. We can all agree that these measures are needed today more than ever. These amounts are important for the people, for those who really need them. That's what today's about. The government's plans, the government's agreement and its financial and budgetary translation will be discussed in the coming weeks and months. That promises beautiful and exciting discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a major problem in companies at the moment. Many people face a difficult choice when they get a message that they have to go into quarantine, for example if they have been tested positively or if someone close to them showed risk behaviour. Should they go into quarantine, but with pay losses - this could go up to 30% or 40% - or they won't say anything and try to get out with the resources they have? That's a tough choice. In our country, people should not be the choice. People should only choose health. For sanitary reasons, we need to take political decisions that allow people to think about health and society and decide to go into quarantine for ten days. People shouldn't lose money with that. This is obvious in terms of plumbing. We have already discussed it a number of times in Parliament. We are proposing a concrete solution. We have tabled an amendment aimed at increasing the social security budget for temporary unemployment by 30%. That's a worst case scenario. We do not know how long this crisis will last. EUR 2 billion more was earmarked for temporary unemployment during the first few months of the crisis, during the first wave. We're assuming a two-month scenario here. It could be more or less. There will also be workers who will not need this. Think of the victory of the employees of Delhaize, who have fought for weeks for the right to 100 % wage retention if they have to go into quarantine. The leadership of Delhaize admitted yesterday afternoon. That's good news. Those workers and servants will not need temporary unemployment. In other sectors, however, many people will not be in that case. So for sanitary and social reasons, we have to make this decision today. The amendment we have tabled aims to register EUR 866 million in the provisional twelfths. It is not customary to table amendments in the provisional twelfths. We're only doing this if there's urgency. Last year we did this for the emergency fund of white rage. That was urgent and it was approved. We hope that today we can find the same momentum to adopt this amendment. So, appointment in an hour during the vote, to find a majority together for this constructive proposal from the PVDA.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u107	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in July 2019 Mr Dewael, then President, gave me the floor to start the debate on this series of six provisional twelfths. Today I would like to assume that this is the end of a far too long period without federal government with full authority and without solid parliamentary support. It was a time from running past the facts in current cases. No one can be proud of that. We can't let that happen again. That is also a collective responsibility of this Parliament. We are mandated here, not to blackmail, but to shape a policy. The COVID-19 crisis has led to a further derailment of the public budget. We will probably end up in the direction of EUR 50 billion. This means that there are EUR 50 billion more costs or expenses than revenue. Of these, EUR 20 billion are COOVID-19 related expenditure and EUR 20 billion less revenue due to the indirect effects of the health crisis. Mr Vermeersch, EUR 10 billion can safely be allocated to Parliament's rather generous hand over the last two years, culminated in the absence of a well-considered budgetary policy. The question we will naturally have to ask in due course is whether all this money spent is well spent, including the money for the health crisis. Let us be modest. This is not obvious. I am always surprised that we are holding a meeting with all responsible people, who apparently all know better and would have done better. Let us be honest. The course of this unseen health crisis is, and remains, difficult to assess.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u108	Mr Leysen, Mr Vermeersch wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u109	Mr President, Mr Leysen, we have just been talking about correct figures. I have more faith in the newspaper De Tijd than in the spokesperson of the liberals. On the front page of the newspaper De Tijd is the 50 billion euro. There is a very clear deficit of EUR 13.5 billion prior to the corona crisis. That is the crushing legacy of the Swedish Government. That is exactly what I said in my speech. You've never prepared a crisis. Today we are experiencing one of the biggest crises since the Second World War. Now we cannot tackle this crisis properly and we cannot support our people and businesses, because you have never prepared crises. You must not point to the Flemish interest. After all, it is not our responsibility. It is the responsibility of the assembled political class that has failed to prepare crises.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u110	I'm not preparing for crises. Crisises must be dealt with, crises must be dealt with. We must also have the will to do so or try to make money out of it. The course of any crisis, and certainly of this health crisis, remains difficult to assess. It is understandable that it is criticised, but I wonder who would do better in this hemisphere. As far as the 50 billion expenditure is concerned, that is EUR 4,000 per inhabitant, EUR 10,000 per family, which we are giving as a debt letter to the next generations this year. Many are not concerned and refer to the uninterested lending capacities until further notice. They are blindly confident that we and our children and our grandchildren will repay it tomorrow and the day after tomorrow without blinking and easy. They also say that we can also turn the printing press to create new money and have the illusion that this will never lead to hyperinflation and therefore to the destruction of money. They're wrong. I do not want to discuss the details and the language and the Fleming, but this deficit cannot be repeated. We need to make the transition and re-establish a real budgetary policy as soon as possible. That requires courage, that requires choices and that requires an efficient state. I understand that this is also the ambition of this government. Madam Secretary of State, I am counting on you from now on to spend the money that citizens entrust to the government wisely, as happens in any healthy household. Revenue and expenditure should be in balance as far as possible, unless investment brings about a factor more than they cost. I have no doubt that you will use this as a guide. I am of course aware that the government has had very little time to draw up a new budget and that there will be a great deal of conditionality because of the second wave in which we are now in. The major deficits that we need today conceal the structural need for public finances to be healed. The current low interest rates should not be a guide to unbridled deficit voting. Our group will therefore, for the last time, approve these provisional twelfths, including the additional corona commission and the adjustments for social security, in order to establish a clear, courageous and forward-looking budgetary framework and policy from now on.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u111	Mr Leysen, thank you for your speech. You seem to want to become the new on the one hand in Parliament. That actually amuses me. On the one hand, Open Vld members continue to make their liberal speeches in the Chamber, on the other hand, they hope that none of us will read the texts of the coalition agreement, although they are all available. I have a bit of experience with that. Before I was a Member of Parliament, I was a Member of the European Parliament. In the European Parliament, Guy Verhofstadt has been defending the ultra-launch monetary policy of the European Central Bank, according to which it cannot cope, signed with the greetings of Open Vld. At the same time, you here in the Chamber criticize this ultra-launch liberal policy. That's saying versus doing it on the one hand. One more example. You say that we will really need structural policies to get out of the crisis. Of course, structural measures will have to be taken to get out of the crisis. For example, we go to an employment rate of 80%, according to the government agreement. When we read how that will happen, it turns out to be words in the wind, because there are no concrete actions in the coalition agreement. Unemployment benefits must not be reduced, the labour market must not be made more flexible, the bridge pension must not be abolished. So, Mr Leysen, please do not hesitate to do so. I am even pleased to hear your discourse, because that gives me additional argument to confront it with the actions in the field and the words in your coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u112	Mr President, we in Vooruit are looking forward. We will have some of the discussions that you have now tried to conduct when discussing the 2021 budget, which is being prepared. We shall shortly receive the relevant texts and the tables. Mr Loones, we are moving forward with the coalition agreement and we are going to implement it. You predict that the coalition agreement will only be words in the wind, but you will have to say that if that is the case. I'm going back to today's topic. We help ensure the continuity of our services and the functioning of the government. That is also necessary, which is why we will be happy to approve the draft, even if it is based on something that we did not approve in the past. However, that does not matter, we want to ensure continuity. We want money to be provided for the fight against COVID-19, as you all say. That's what's done in here. We also want strong social security. Of course, we are dealing with a set-off of the two balancing amounts of social security. That's just the implementation of the law, so it's only natural that the government does. Of course, money is provided for the care staff fund, which everyone is screaming for. There is, correctly, money provided for mental health care, as the government must do on the basis of the laws that have been passed. We will therefore approve the adjusted provisional appropriations, which are properly implemented by the government, and we look forward to the real debate we are going to have on the 2021 budget within ten days.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u113	Just as I believed Mr Piedboeuf for his honesty, I would like to do so for Mr Bertels and I will do so for all those in the Chamber who honestly acknowledge that these are not normal provisional twelfths. It is not a technical translation of a budget approved years ago. This is an effective policy. New policies are being introduced here. Politics is being done. It is also to your credit, Mr Bertels, that you acknowledge that. That, of course, justifies our whole argument that amendments are needed to re-suck politics. I would like to hear you say that the sp.a will go forward. When I read the specialists and the economists, I fear that it will, above all, go ahead with the budget deficit, move forward with the level of debt, and move forward with taxes. I believe that this is particularly backward for Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u114	I will no longer go with you, Mr. Loones. Firstly, this is a technical budget to the extent that it is based on the latest approved budget. Secondly, we live in a parliamentary democracy. It is only logical that the government should adapt that technical budget on the basis of legislative proposals adopted by many colleagues in this House. It is a technical adjustment which the government must make in a parliamentary democracy. I hope you can agree with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u115	Mr President, I came here today because I thought that the draft bill for the opening of provisional appropriations was on the agenda and that we would deal with it briefly so that we can get to work on what really matters, namely the 2021 budget. I will briefly answer the specific questions. I've heard a lot of recommendations, suggestions, things I should do. In the time I have, in addition to drawing up the budget, I will look at what I can do about it. However, I shall begin by answering the specific questions. I have already corrected in committee what was said about the grant for SNCB and Infrabel. This concerns EUR 264 million for SNCB and EUR 46.9 million for Infrabel. That amount is intended to offset the impact of the coronapandemic on the public service obligations account, i.e. to fill the deficit resulting from the pandemic. I have already corrected that at the committee meeting on Tuesday. It was then said that no advice had been requested from the Court of Auditors for the EUR 8.5 billion. The Court of Auditors itself recommended in its opinion that the necessary appropriations be provided for this purpose. We have therefore actually added that amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Auditors. I would simply like to conclude that this draft law opening provisional appropriations for months November and December 2020 completes a whole two-year period of provisional appropriations. We are now finally going to be able to present a full budget for this Chamber for 2021. That is what I want to focus on personally. I've heard all the memories of the past and nostalgic reasoning. I have also heard how the word virus was juggled, which is not entirely desirable for me personally in this context. I heard somewhere say there was slow work. I can tell you that the services are working very hard to convert all these notifications into budgetary documents, together with all the Cabinets and all the Ministers, with the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Ministers. We're all working very hard on this. I hope, therefore, to be back here in a few weeks' time with the full budget which will then be under discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u116	Madam Secretary of State, thanks to a question from Mr Van der Donkt in committee, the information on SNCB was indeed already publicly available. However, I would like to take the floor to clarify another point. We have a new government and we are having a budget debate here. In fact, the stands here should be full of journalists and there should be cameras here because it is about the budget, one of the most fundamental debates a parliament can hold. That would also have been the case if the promises had been kept. After all, the Minister of Finance first said that the budget would be there by 15 October and then they were talking about the end of the week. Tomorrow or this weekend, the texts have to go to the European Commission and there is still nothing leaking about them. I assume that this will be delivered to the European Commission in time, because it would be bad if that were not possible. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to close with a specific question. You say that you are disappointed because the debate is not about the essence. You don't want to look at the past, you want to look at the future, you want to focus on what's really important. That is what we want, and that is why we want this specific question. When you send the budget to the European Commission, will you also immediately send to all? In other words, will these tables be delivered to all Members of this House?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u117	The budget is still being worked on so that it can be sent to the European Commission in time. Since you have also asked this question in committee, I have already looked at it with colleagues, and we are effectively planning to share that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u118	Mr Loones, I can't remember how many times we talked about it in the Conference of Presidents. There are procedures and schedules. We will respect them. You can come back to the envi by trying to speed things up, get advanced copies or I don't know what. That's all. We are not going to relaunch the debate every time! You can, Mr. Loones. I have no problem with that. It is better to repeat yourself than not to be heard!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u119	Mr Laaouej, I like the facts a lot. You're right about this. It has always been said in the Conference that the government will respect the time limits of the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry about that. I think that some information could be shared with Parliament more quickly, but well, that is the government's choice. Whatever you say, the Rules of Procedure are respected. But the commitment that is being made here is an additional commitment, on top of what is laid down in parliamentary procedures. We are not talking here about the presentation of the budget according to the Belgian order and form, which, I understand, will happen somewhere in mid-November. We are talking about the tables that are going to go to Europe and which the Secretary of State is now giving us the commitment that they will be shared with the entire Parliament. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for that, because that means that we can take up the serious work and use the autumn recess for that. That is additional information, Mr Laaouej, which would not otherwise be delivered to Parliament, but which will be available thanks to the transparency of Mrs De Bleeker.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u120	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u121	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1532/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1532/5) The bill has 46 articles. The draft law has 46 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u122	Annex V.Part • 14 Wouter Vermeersch cs (1532/6) • 13.. Sander Loones (1532/6) • 10.. Sander Loones (1532/6) • 11.. Sander Loones (1532/6) • 12.. Sander Loones (1532/6) • 15 years Raoul Hedebouw cs (1532/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u123	Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u124	Sustained: the amendments, Article 2 and the attached table.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u125	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 and 3 to 46.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u126	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u127	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Ahmed Laaouej, Gilles Vanden Burre, Benoît Piedboeuf, Servais Verherstraeten, Maggie De Block, Melissa Depraetere.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u128	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u129	Mr President, may I refer to the written report on this urgent proposal in a time of this incredible second corona crisis, out of substitute shame?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u130	I will be brief, because I believe that too much time has been devoted to the proposal before us. It should never have been on the agenda this week. I share Mrs Pas' substitute shame, but with regard to the majority, who will vote in favour with a straight face, and go home with a clear conscience, because I will vote against it with great conviction, together with the entire N-VA Group. How you return is none of my business. It is striking that there is a proposal here about the Management Committee, which worked perfectly. The distribution may not always have been correct, as it should be based on the D'Hondt system in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Although this rule was not strictly enforced, the distribution was fortunately often correct in practice due to circumstances. That is a first point. Secondly, at least the Management Committee worked. There was never a problem with a chairman who couldn't vote. Actually, I don't know if there was a vote. There was almost a vote, but the PS did not agree and could stop it. One and one is two, right? The Chairman of the Management Committee always played an advisory role. That was also important, because the information has to flow through. The chairman certainly has a place there, but he does not vote. In fact, it is considered important that a chairman should be able to maintain neutrality. That has always worked perfectly, until the day when the PS can appoint the President of Parliament in the entire agreement on posts. Mrs Tillieux has absolutely been awarded it, that is not the point. As a result, however, the PS suddenly falls out as voters on the Management Committee. The Management Committee regulates internal affairs in the Chamber and deals with personnel files and sometimes staff. Today, this is happening in a transparent way, while in the past, I have never been fooled by staff. I can only conclude that that is precisely what is happening. By suddenly proposing not only to give the President the right to vote, but also to vote decisively, we are not abandoning the principle of neutrality, but we are actually turning the President into some sort of dictator in the governing committee. That is, in itself, shameful enough, if it were not for the urgency requested in the plenary session of 15 October. I do not allow you to forget that other urgent requests for proposals concerning, among other things, the handling of child abuse in this new era of corona measures moving towards a lockdown were, of course, voted away on 15 October, because they came from the opposition, while the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, which was very urgent, did receive urgent treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u131	As a result, last week, one of the most difficult weeks in the corona context, we had to make time to convene a committee meeting to discuss the absolute right to vote for the PS. We now have to devote some time to this in plenary. You are fortunate that there are still few viewers and that the viewers do not realize that the majority are dealing with such matters, which will allow you to take pride in your new policy tomorrow. You go ahead, you see how you vote about it later; how you feel tonight is on your account. I can't help but call that shameful. Our group will therefore vote against it with great conviction. We will then see how the Management Committee develops further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u132	Madam President, I am very sorry to have to deal with this proposal today in this House in the worst week of the corona crisis, which has even received the urgency of the majority. It has been outlined about the internal cuisine of this Parliament. The internal management committee will be extended from 5 to 6 people. The President of the Chamber shall be added with a decisive vote on urgency. Much has already been said today about the nostalgic view of the past. It is not nostalgic at all, but I would like to frame a few things. Colleagues, a trend has been developed in this House over the past few decades to systematically reduce internal administrative mandates. We have a democratic, objective system of D'Hondt which is applied to many things in this House, such as the distribution of the committee presidency. That system ensures that the election results are respected. Some suffer from democracy. If they do not like that election result, the reflex is not to take into account that election result, but to adjust the system. For example, over the past decades, when the Quaestors were still in existence and also referred to by the D'Hondt system, the numbers were systematically reduced if the Flemish interest grew and were entitled to a quaestor. We have always supported that. If there's any reason to slim down Mexican armies, that's a good thing. Perhaps the government should have taken an example with its excellence. Even though the underlying reason was less honourable, it was a good thing that things were reduced, but at some point there was a problem. In 2007, when I was elected for the first time, I was the youngest in the Chamber, the number of Quaestors was no longer wanted to be reduced. Too many parties would fall out of the boat who also liked a quaestor. It took months for the Bureau of the Chamber to be set up. A colleague of mine, Guy D'Haeseleer, became quaestor. I don't think the Chamber has begun to shake down its foundations. It didn't end here. The Chamber has survived without any problem and since then, when we could no longer be excluded from these functions, we have seen a reverse trend. We are now getting proposals on our plate, such as today's proposal to adjust the scheme purely à la tête du client if certain parties fall out of the boat. Now the PS falls out of the boat, because a certain Tom Van Grieken is on the board committee thanks to the Dhondt system. The system of the Management Committee has been in place in this House since 2013. As far as I know, that has always gone smoothly. I asked in committee if there were any problems with the composition in the last seven years, but none of the authors could give me an example where it was a problem that the President of the Chamber was not on the Management Committee. In the meantime, you have been able to sleep on it for a week, so perhaps you have now found an example to show the opposite? Now it is suddenly urgent that the Steering Committee should be reorganised after seven years. The Committee argued that this is a necessity for a coherent whole. Apparently, it's easier to reach a consensus with six people than to do it with five people. It was also argued that the President of the Chamber should account for irregularities in the personnel files and that this would not be possible if he did not have the right to vote on the Management Committee. Nor have I been given an example of irregularities in the last seven years, and I wonder whether I should estimate the risk of irregularities more or less if the PS were to fall out of the management committee. The government itself has made a major focus of a new political culture in the government declaration. Words are a matter for the government to repeat them sufficiently, in the hope that the people still believe them, but the actions taken by the majority parties of the Vivaldi government point to the opposite. Yesterday I questioned the Prime Minister about the system of employees for former ministers, but he does not seem to have any concrete plans to finally abolish it, even though it has been officially promised since 2011. So this is the second point: one goes all the way with the old political culture and wants to adapt the system completely to the needs of one party, which is in danger of falling out of the boat. It is, of course, a shame that such a thing must pass at urgency. However, you know me and my group. We are always constructive, if we can be. I have read two important arguments in the explanatory statement of your proposal. There was an argument in which you advocated ensuring proportional representation of the political groups in the decision-making process in that internal committee of the Chamber. For the second argument, I should also like to quote from your explanatory statement: 'The aim must remain to achieve the broadest degree of acceptance in decision-making'. I fully agree with that. The previous speaker has already referred to it: the composition of the Management Committee is not entirely proportional representation and does not have that broad support. If the Management Committee is to be designated within the Bureau, each time the discussion arises as to whether the two additional Bureau members, apart from the chairman, who is a member of the D'hondt system, should be designated by vote or according to that objective, fair and democratic system D'hondt. If we have that discussion and ask for the D'dog system to be applied, all the ballot papers will be distributed in the meantime. That's how it's done in practice. If you really want to take up those two points, which you yourself put in the explanatory statement of your proposal, and really want to apply the D'Houndt system as it should be applied, then you should take the opportunity to do something good in the proposal, not to do the indications completely tailored to one party and therefore to apply the D'Houndt system in future for the full composition of the Management Committee. That is why I have also tabled an amendment to the proposal, which also aims to ensure that Bureau members are designated according to the proportional representation laid down in the D'hondt method, which we know in this House. You are all in favour of it orally. I wonder whether that will also reflect in your support for my amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u133	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u134	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1573/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1573/4) The proposal has 2 articles. The proposal contains two articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u135	Art. 1 • 2 – Barbara Pas (1573/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u136	Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u137	Sustained: the amendment and Article 1.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u138	Article adopted by article: Article 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u139	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and article that has been retained and on the whole will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u140	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Patrick Dewael. Not related Without report
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u141	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u142	Madam President, I would just like to say that this is a technical amendment. The legislation on party financing needs to be adapted to the change that has been made in company law. This is a proposal that I have put forward and which is quite urgent, because it also needs to be sent to the Senate. It's bicameral. It was adopted unanimously in the Constitutional Commission. I have nothing else to add. There has been great unanimity, and this can be done occasionally in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u143	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u144	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1556/04) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1556/4) The bill has two articles. The bill has 2 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip066x.u145	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. Ladies and gentlemen, for technical reasons I propose to interrupt the sitting for a few minutes. We're back at 7:15. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, October 29, 2020 at 7:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 29 October 2020 at 7.15 p.m.
