ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic284x.u1	Mrs De Sutter, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you on your new position as Minister of Civil Service. You are always welcome to answer questions in our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic284x.u2	I, for my part, would like to congratulate you, Madam Secretary. I'm glad to meet you on this committee so soon. Your predecessors were not always very happy to come to this committee regularly to answer questions. It is certainly a good start that you do so right away. My interplay is about the fact that the Constitution is not always respected in federal civil service. In particular, Article 10 (2) of the Constitution states that only Belgians can be designated as civil and military ministries, except for exceptions which may be provided for special cases by law. In the event of enlargement, this reservation for Belgians has now been partially extended to citizens of the European Union and to nationals of the European Economic Area. This includes the Swiss Confederation, and also some limited other categories, in accordance with certain legal rulings of the Council of State. However, according to that judicial procedure and the doctrine of justice, as a general rule, the public office remains closed to third country nationals under Article 10 of the Constitution. At the end of last year, I asked all ministers the written question of how many foreigners, broken down according to people from the EU and third country nationals, are employed in the various public administrations. I did not receive an answer from three ministers. In the meantime, I have made another attempt at the new ministers to get an answer. But from all the other answers I've received, it appears that at least 739 people are third-country nationals employed in federal public office. Even if we deduct from this the 638 staff employed through the Foreign Affairs Office, especially staff employed in embassies and so on, there remain at least 101 staff from third countries employed in the Federal Public Service, which is contrary to the Constitution. Third-country nationals were and are unconstitutionally recruited in the federal public office. In my written question to all these ministers, I also asked what legal basis there was for these appointments. In that case, reference is made to Article 16 of the Royal Decree of 2 October 1937 on the Staff Regulations, inserted by the Royal Decree of 18 April 2005 and Article 2 of the Royal Decree of 25 April 2005 on employment in public services. The first KB only opened the public service to nationals of EU Member States and did not receive a negative opinion from the Legislative Department of the Council of State. The second KB, on the other hand, opens the public service to third-country nationals in contractual employment. However, in the opinion on this matter, the Legislative Section of the Council of State was very clear, and I quote: "In order for that provision to continue unchanged, it is necessary to amend the Constitution first." The latter has not yet happened. Article 10 of the Constitution has been declared subject to revision several times, but it has never been amended. At the moment, the article is no longer subject to revision. From this I can only conclude that we have given up any adjustment. In the light of all this, it must be decided that it is flagrantly contrary to the Constitution to open public office to third-country nationals, whether in fixed or contractual employment. Justice and law are clear about this and agree on it, which is far from being the case in all cases. The Royal Decree of 25 April 2005 is in fact a double error: firstly, by opening the public office to third-country nationals; secondly, by regulating that at KB. This can only be done by law, and only in very specific and exceptional cases, which require very thorough justification. The rule should not therefore become the exception. Madam Secretary, do you acknowledge the unconstitutional nature of Article 2 of the Royal Decree of 25 April 2005? Do you find the situation problematic, given that Article 10 of the Constitution has not been declared by the pre-constituent to be subject to revision and that there is no initiative or intention to amend that article? If so, will you take an initiative to adapt that Royal Decree as soon as possible, so that public office is no longer open to third-country nationals? Or, on the other hand, do you think that we do not need to take account of the Constitution? Will you send a letter to the federal administrations to point out that it is unconstitutional to employ third-country nationals? Are measures taken against third-country nationals who have been unconstitutionally employed in the federal public office? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic284x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say how pleased I am to be here in committee. I absolutely intend to work with you and answer all your questions. You have already put a very solid question to me. We will, of course, refer to the same principles of law. Access to public service, as referred to in the Constitution, is governed by Article 10 (2) which provides that all Belgians are equal before the law and that they are only eligible for civil and military service, except for exceptions which may be provided by law in special cases. The condition of nationality which has been formulated applies, of course, to the federal public office. Article 34 of the Constitution provides for the assignment of certain powers to institutions governed by international law, i.e. the priority of international and European standards. That should also apply to that Article 10 (2). In other words, this should be applied in a manner consistent with European law. Therefore, on the basis of the essential principle of non-discrimination on the basis of nationality between nationals of Member States of the European Union, as referred to in the current Article 45 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and on the basis of the principle of free movement of workers, as interpreted by the Court of Justice of the European Union, only functions which involve the exercise of public authority or which contribute to the promotion or defence of the general interest of the Community may be reserved to its own nationals. Other functions should therefore remain open to EU nationals. Consequently, in order to be a national official, the candidate must comply with the general conditions of admissibility, including the nationality requirement. The Royal Decree of 1937 on the Staff Regulations of Officials states that "I quote: "The candidate must be Belgian when the duties to be performed are related to the exercise of public authority and are intended to represent the general interests of the State, or in other cases, be Belgian or citizen of another State which is part of the European Economic Area or of the Swiss Confederation." The second element to which you referred is the Royal Decree of 2005 which states that in order to be recruited on the basis of a contract of employment, the candidate must meet the following nationality requirements, I quote: "The candidate must be Belgian, if the relationship to be exercised involves direct or indirect participation in the exercise of public authority and includes activities aimed at protecting the general interests of the State'. In Houthem's judgment of 31 March 2014, the Council of State also agreed to extend the concept of Article 10 (2) of the Constitution to European citizens, given the priority of European law over our national law. I refer specifically to the arguments in recitals 19 and 20 of this judgment. Nevertheless, the Council of State refuses to go further without a formal legal basis. I would like to clarify that. It can therefore actually be concluded that the appointments of the citizens of the European Union are permitted very clearly and are in line with the Constitution, as it should be interpreted in the light of European law. For the access of non-European citizens to public service, a revision of Article 10 of the Belgian Constitution would be desirable. I noted that in the 2019 Review Declaration, submitted by each branch of the legislature, Article 10 (2) was not mentioned by the government as being revised, unlike Chamber and Senate and also contrary to what had been accepted in previous revision statements. This does not mean that I intend to take measures to restrict access to contractual work to European citizens for two reasons. First, technically, the contested provision of the abovementioned Royal Decree of 2005 has never been annulled by the Constitutional Court. Secondly, because since 1 May 1995 contractual relations have already been open to nationals of all countries. It is therefore not my intention to take a step backwards by restricting access to contractual posts for foreigners. I would like to conclude by adding, for information, that the same conditions and nationality requirements are also applied in Flanders for the status of federal officials.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic284x.u4	Madam Secretary, thank you for your explanation. I am disappointed that you do not wish to take any concrete action. You yourself refer to a judgment of the Council of State of 31 March 2014. It is in that judgment that part of a Flemish decree is annulled, precisely for the very reason I cite today. Your argument not to act is that there is no nullity by the Constitutional Court. That is true, but the Council of State has annulled part of a Flemish decree for that reason. Nor is it surprising that the nullity of the Constitutional Court is not yet there, because it requires being an interested party and a hard-to-recover disadvantage. All this is not so easy to prove. You confirmed that Article 10 (2) of the Constitution will not be amended for the next four years and that there is no such possibility. This means, however, that we are simply in an unconstitutional state, which is not the way things are going. You will not be surprised that I am proposing a motion of recommendation if we would like to support you in drawing up at least a debrief with a number of measures. Thus, the actions of federal administrations can be brought into line with Article 10 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic284x.u5	Madam Minister, on behalf of our group too, I would like to welcome you to this first committee meeting. We are confident that you will turn the government into an emancipating employer and that you will pay close attention to the role of the government as a model for equal opportunities. You will undoubtedly do so in a way that respects the Constitution as much as possible. We have tabled a simple motion after this interplay by Mrs Pass.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic284x.u6	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Civil Service, Public Enterprises, Telecommunications and Post, - having regard to the second paragraph of Article 10 of the Constitution, which reserves public office for Belgians, subject to exceptions provided for by law, - having regard to Article 2 2° of the Royal Decree of 25 April 2005 laying down the conditions for employment by contract of employment in certain public services, - whereas, as regards contractual relations, this royal decree opens the federal public office to foreigners from third countries; - whereas, on this basis, persons without Belgian nationality were and are recruited from third countries by the Federal Public Service; - whereas this is contrary to Article 10 of the Constitution, as is apparent, inter alia, from the opinion of the Council of State (No. 38.002/01) by this Royal Decree, but also by judgments of the Administrative Court Division of the Council of State, which on this ground has already destroyed parts of decisions to this effect, as well as from the doctrine of law; - whereas Article 10 of the Constitution has not been declared eligible for revision and therefore the constituent has no intention of amending that Article; - whereas, in accordance with Article 10 of the Constitution, public service may only be opened to persons who do not have Belgian nationality, than by law, and therefore not by royal decree, and only in special cases; - whereas, in a democratic rule of law, royal decisions must not be contrary to constitutional provisions; asks the government - to adapt Article 2 2° of the Royal Decree of 25 April 2005 laying down the conditions of employment in certain public services in such a way as to comply with Article 10 of the Constitution; - inform the administration of the federal public office that it is contrary to Article 10 of the Constitution to recruit foreign nationals from third countries and to ask them to respect this article of the Constitution in their recruitment policies." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Public Service, Public Enterprises, Telecommunications and Post Office, - having regard to article 10, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, which provides that only Belgians are eligible for employment in the public service, except for exceptions which may be established by law; - having regard to Article 2(2) of the Royal Decree of 25 April 2005 laying down the conditions for employment by contract of employment in certain public services; Whereas the aforementioned Royal Decree opens the Federal Civil Service to foreigners from third countries in respect of contractual employment; Whereas persons from third countries who are not Belgian nationals have been and are engaged on this basis in the Federal Civil Service; - Whereas these undertakings are manifestly contrary to Article 10 of the Constitution, as can be seen in particular from the opinion delivered by the Council of State (Opinion No. 38.002/01) concerning this royal decree, but also from other judgments delivered by the Council of State, section of administrative jurisprudence, which have already, on this basis, annulled parts of the decrees to this effect and as can also be seen from the doctrine; Whereas Article 10 of the Constitution is not open for revision and the Constituent therefore has no intention of amending it; - Whereas, in accordance with Article 10 of the Constitution, the civil service is reserved for persons who do not have Belgian nationality except for exceptions which may be established by law – and therefore not by royal decree – and only in special cases; - Whereas, in a democratic State governed by the rule of law, royal decrees may not be contrary to constitutional provisions; asks the government - to adapt Article 2 (2) of the Royal Decree of 25 April 2005 laying down the conditions for employment by contract of employment in certain public services so that it is in conformity with Article 10 of the Constitution; - to inform the federal civil service administrations that it is contrary to Article 10 of the Constitution to hire foreigners from third countries and to request them to ensure compliance with this Article as part of their recruitment policy." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Jessika Soors. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Jessika Soors. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic284x.u7	Mr President, Minister, in order to meet the needs of parents who need to reconcile private and professional life during the period of the health crisis VOCID, the parental leave corona was introduced by Royal Decree No. 23 of 13 May 2020, a measure recommended until the end of September 2020. A bill was passed in plenary setting up quarantine leave for parents, when the child is no longer able to attend school, class or reception centre for persons with disabilities because of coronavirus. Its adoption offers a solution to workers under contract of employment. However, unlike Corona parental leave, this measure will not apply to statutory civil servants who do not meet the conditions for access to and compensation for temporary unemployment. Minister, do you intend to take steps to provide a solution for statutory public service employees?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic284x.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Thémont. The connection wasn't very good. But I think we got it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic284x.u9	Mr President, taking into account the language of the questioners, I will reply in two languages. Ladies, thank you for all your questions on the same subject. I assure you that I am fully aware of the consequences of the health crisis on the functioning of the federal administrative public service and, above all, of the staff who are making every effort to maintain service on a daily basis. However, I would like to draw the attention of honourable members to the fact that, as federal minister of the public service, I am competent only for the federal administrative public service, not for regional, community and local governments. I can therefore only comment on the measures taken for statutory and contractual staff employed in these federal organizations. Since I took office in early October, I have read all the precautionary measures taken by my predecessor. A total of three circulars and one royal decree have been published in the Belgian Monitor since March 2020 to provide uniform guidelines for all federal services and staff. Circumstances have changed several times during this health crisis and the objective has always been to ensure continuity of service as well as the well-being of civil servants. You rightly refer to the decision to favour telework. Currently, many staff members work almost exclusively at a distance or rarely visit the office. Many services have made considerable efforts to enable as many employees as possible to telework. These services have adapted their organization of work and made equipment available. Of course, it was not always obvious for functions for which teleworking is not possible. But we have always tried to find a solution, especially for museum employees, prison officers, etc. However, I can point out that no application for temporary unemployment in cases of force majeure has been made for these staff members, but they have, however, been exempted from service for periods during which they have not been able to receive a job. This was also the case for staff quarantined by their treating physician because they lived with an infected person. To do so, they had to submit a quarantine certificate, as described in the circular dated 1 September 2020. Staff members who could not work because they were ill remained covered by the regular disease regulations. In the meantime, we have entered a new phase of the health crisis and a new challenge awaits us: the closure of some schools, some nurseries and some reception centres for children with disabilities. Colleagues, I can assure you that I am aware that the closure of certain schools, crèches and centres for children with disabilities affects a large group of federal officials and that this will also have an impact on the functioning of federal public services. My services are currently making every effort to take the necessary measures. These measures must be sufficiently flexible, tailored to each official and in order to ensure continuity of service. Trade unions and senior officials are closely involved, both in the drafting and implementation of the new directives. I will not fail to follow closely any new developments in the health crisis, and I will certainly take the necessary initiatives to support the functioning of federal public services and staff, including by making teleworking even easier. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all our federal officials, because, like so many workers in this country, they have suddenly continued to work in a suboptimal working environment and in times of uncertainty to maintain the service for citizens, at a time when the proper functioning of the State was more important than ever. I also know that a lot of people are asked to be posted to hospitals during this health crisis or in other ways. I thank them for that. Finally, I would just like to say that we are preparing a circular setting out a number of measures which will be submitted to the trade unions in the B Committee on Friday, with the aim of putting this into effect effectively. I will, of course, remain available for other suggestions or questions on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic284x.u10	First of all, thank you, minister. I'm glad to know you're aware of this problem. I had no doubt, and I hear that we are going to focus here on the federal administrations, of course. I am also happy to hear you say that there are solutions for staff members who cannot telework. I am also glad that there is consultation with the unions. This has not always been the case. Trade unions have not always been involved in this process. I am also very pleased to hear that you will take the necessary initiatives and that a circular is being prepared. It would again involve trade unions in the process. All of this is done for the well-being of the public administration workers you manage.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic284x.u11	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I am pleased that a circular is being drawn up, especially since parents are now faced with crèches and schools that close. I would like to echo your words of thanks to the federal officials who have made a huge effort during this corona crisis. To give an example, the RVA has been processing files seven days out of seven, so that people have been paid their temporary unemployment benefit on time. And so there are many examples of civil servants who have been working to receive people. I also welcome the fact that the trade unions will be consulted on this first. That is indeed a change from the previous government. I would like to give you three more principles when that leave is arranged for officials who have to take care of their children when the school or nursery closes. Firstly, telework may be a solution, but you may remember from the first wave that the combination of family and telework can sometimes be difficult for parents. We must ensure that they do not cross their borders. Secondly, a solution must be found for officials who are unable to work telework. I am thinking of guards eof people who work in museums. Thirdly, there must be equal treatment for people who work in public office, regardless of their status. They do the same work in the workplace, while one is statutory and the other is contractual. This sometimes causes differences in treatment, which cannot be resolved immediately. In this crisis, it would be a good thing if both statutory and contractual officials were faced with the closure of a school or crèche, they would receive the same treatment. Another treatment merely creates tensions in the workplace, which does not improve the continuity of public service. Thank you very much for your reply and I will contact my Flemish colleagues for a solution for regional and local officials.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic284x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answers. I agree with what my two colleagues said earlier. Knowing that this circular will come out Friday actually allows us to respond to the numerous inquiries by saying that the information is coming. I am, of course, aware that this is the federal level of power, but in this extremely complex and urgent period at any level of power, I imagine that colleagues in the federated entities will be able to draw inspiration from the measures that will be taken on Friday. Communicating between the federal government and the various federated entities can be beneficial to all. I also go back to what my colleague, Anja Vanrobaeys, said about fairness. I think it's very important. That's what's come back to us. It is important that there is a great deal of clarity on the distinctions between statutes and equity. There are, in fact, many different situations. Whether they are parents in quarantine for their children, whether their children are tested or not, this is already a significant change. Whether they are quarantines for themselves because they are tested or quarantines because a relative has been tested can sometimes lead to differences in interpretation, treatment of presence or not at work or in telework mode, whether positive or not. These are so many different situations that are also very new, both for you and for us. This situation is caused by the crisis. It is probably by declining all these possible cases in a circular that relations at work will be calmed because it is known that, when there is a feeling of inequity in treatment, tensions arise. Finally, I would like to add my thanks to all the workers. I would also like to highlight the work that has been done in recent months, as soon as passed bills or royal orders of special powers were sent. I think that workers have often been subjected to a very steady pace. I would therefore like to associate myself with your thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic284x.u13	Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to join you in thanking all the officials who have already played an incredible role and will do so in the coming months to help keep this country running. I am very pleased that a solution is being found on the basis of a circular which will be submitted to the trade unions and, of course, in close cooperation with the senior officials, in order to resolve the problem that we in the Social Affairs Committee have already solved with the majority parties for the workers. I agree with my previous colleagues. In connection with telework, Mr Vanrobaeys said that sometimes people should be able to be at home, for example to take care of small children. I think it is very important that there is a good solution to this. Madam Secretary, you said it would be a tailor-made solution. I think it's a hugely important thing to be able to work on a bespoke basis. Everyone's situation is different. Sometimes people have to stay in quarantine. In cases where schools close classes, it can be about children in high school, but it can also be about small children. Each time the context differs. That is why I think it is important to have a tailor-made solution, some of which is a decisive factor in what we have done for the workers on the basis of the same principles. I have every confidence in it and wish you every success in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic284x.u14	On 11 March 2019, the Royal Decree determining the conditions for positive actions entered into force. This RB makes it possible for companies to develop an anti-discrimination policy through positive actions. However, previous parliamentary questions, the annual report of Unia and the socio-economic monitoring of Unia and the Employment, Labour and Social Affairs Office, published at the beginning of March, clearly show that Belgium still has a lot of work ahead of it in combating discrimination in the labour market. In its annual report, Unia explicitly asks for an RB to enable positive actions in the public sector. The government agreement shows that the government fully agrees that this sector should reflect as much as possible the composition and diversity of the population. Would you like to take an initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic284x.u15	Mrs Willaert, thank you for this important question. Let me give you the context first. In its present form, the Royal Decree of 11 February 2019 determining the conditions for positive actions does not indeed apply to the federal public office. However, there are a number of specific RBs applicable to the public sector, which allow positive actions, to ensure that the public sector is indeed as much as possible a reflection of the composition and diversity of the population. For the disability target group, the Royal Decree of 6 October 2005 already provides a number of positive actions with various measures relating to comparative recruitment selections and traineeships. I am thinking, for example, of the reasonable adjustment of selection tests, the priority regime for persons with disabilities in the yard reserves and the famous quota of 3%. With regard to gender balance for higher positions, the Royal Decree of 2 June 2012 amending the Royal Decree of 1937 on the status of state staff provides for a quota of at least one third of the under-represented gender from A3 onwards and for mandate functions. You yourself refer to the coalition agreement. That's right. Those points are addressed. The following elements are included in their entirety. Public administrations need to be modernised, digitised, diversified and feminised. Moreover, the government is committed to combating all forms of discrimination, including against women. We make an example of the government in terms of inclusive human resources policy, and we commit ourselves to ensuring that the workforce reflects the diversity of society. The government is making additional efforts to reach its target of at least 3% for the employment of people with disabilities in public services, including recruitment policies and policies around the working environment. We evaluate the way in which monitoring is carried out, with particular attention to the underreporting and the UN-comformity of the definitions used in the framework of a concrete action plan, which the government will develop to make public administrations more inclusive. The government agreement also states that the government will take measures to ensure that both administration and public enterprises are sufficiently gender-balanced at the top. This means that my services will give priority to analysing the extent to which opening up the RB to the public sector or creating a similar RB specifically for the public sector can bring added value compared to what already exists to RBs that apply to the public sector. As far as I am concerned, that will be high on the agenda and will also be reflected in my policy paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic284x.u16	Madam Minister, I am very pleased with your answer and look forward with interest to the research that you are announcing. We can, among other things, consider whether further royal decisions need to be issued in order to operationalise them. I'm expecting in that respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic284x.u17	Mr President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I congratulate you on your duties. For many years now, some SPFs, such as the SPF BOSA, the SPF Economie or the SPF Intérieur, have been working with "functioning" presidents or even executive committees. This situation is obviously problematic, especially since some management committees do not comply with the language laws as to their composition. Minister, are appointment measures planned in the near future? If so, in which entities and according to what timetable? I know that I arrive with my question soon after your appointment, but I had already questioned your predecessors on this subject and my questions remained unanswered.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic284x.u18	Mr President, Mr Senesael, thank you for your question. You know, of course, that as Minister of the Public Service, I am competent to appoint agents for my own services. The same applies to each of the other ministers. Only the appointment of the Chairs of the Steering Committees of the Federal Public Services is subject to a deliberate order of appointment to the Council of Ministers, on the proposal of the Minister concerned, in accordance with the Royal Order of 2001 relating to the designation and performance of management functions in the Federal Public Services and Federal Public Programming Services. The appointment of agents is the responsibility of each minister for his or her area(s) of competence. It takes the initiative and determines the timetable. It is therefore not possible for me to provide a centralized schedule of designations. I think I can speak on behalf of my colleagues by telling you that we all want to stabilize, as soon as possible, the situation regarding the appointment of federal agents in accordance with the language rules. My services ensure that federal organizations are given the necessary support and sequencing to the organization of selection procedures in these critical functions. However, I would also like to add that I have the greatest respect for all the officials and agents who during the day-to-day business performed an ad interim function at this particularly difficult time of dealing with the VOCID-19 crisis. Finally, I would add that for the SPF BOSA, which is my responsibility, we will make a proposal to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible this year in order to solve this problem, which has been going on for far too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic284x.u19	Minister, I would like to thank you for the attention you have given to my question, for your clear willingness to make up for the shortcomings of the past, but also for your willingness to ensure a better and brighter future for the public service.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic284x.u20	I would like to thank the Minister for her presence on our committee. I'll see you soon.
