ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u1	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that everyone is still in good health. Since I have a small cough myself, I didn't want to take any risks, I'll stay home for another week and we'll see after the autumn holiday. Hopefully it's corona, I'll get it over with. I feel excellent for the rest, but I am not taking any risks. Minister, on 6 October the European Court of Justice made firewood of Belgian data retention legislation. The Constitutional Court will have to review that law and partially destroy it. The data retention law requires Belgian telecom providers to keep a preventive record of all their users' data for a year. It concerns data such as who was in contact with whom, when it happened and where the users were, not the content of the communication. The European Court has held that this is contrary to the right to privacy. Philippe Van Linthout, president of the Association of R &amp; D Justices, has raised the alarm, because the trace investigation is the most important tool available to them when they arrive at the scene of the crime. They need to find out immediately who's been near the nearest cell tower. This happens not only in criminal cases but also, for example, in cases where a child is missing. The court leaves an opening for the preservation of the data of specific groups, for example convicts. This does not help us either, because there has been no conviction in the case of the disappearance of children, for example, so that these things should not be kept up to date. Minister, are you considering how we can adapt the rules without making the fight against crime more difficult? What about the pending lawsuit? Will the evidence collected through telecom data still be accepted in the current court cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u2	In fact, Mrs Bury, the European Court of Justice ruled in its judgment of 6 October that the national legislation under which electronic communications providers are obliged to transmit or retain traffic data and location data in general and without distinction for the purpose of combating crime in general and protecting national security in particular is contrary to EU law. Although it is in line with expectations that the Constitutional Court will follow the reasoning of the European Court of Justice, I would like to point out that Belgian legislation has not yet been destroyed. Therefore, there is no impact on ongoing dossiers. In addition to the data retention obligation, Belgian legislation also contains provisions on strictly limited access to retained data. However, we will not wait for the ruling of the Constitutional Court. Our services are in the process of studying the court's ruling and its consequences. It would be premature to give a ruling on the way in which legislation should be adapted and within what time limit. I can already say that it will not be easy to find a solution that meets the view of the court, while at the same time remaining a useful and efficient instrument in the fight against crime. I met Mr Van Linthout on this subject and discussed it in detail with him. It goes without saying that I, as Minister of Justice, must respect judgments of our higher courts, but at the same time I would like to give the security services the tools to fight crime with results. In that sense, of course, I have an ear for the desires of the investigators.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is very good that you have already discussed this with the investigating judge Van Linthout. It's fantastic that you're playing so short on the ball and you're studying the tools to offer alternatives. I am very pleased with your answer that Belgian legislation in this area has not yet been destroyed, so there is no risk for current cases. I have tabled a motion of recommendation asking to see how this is done in other EU countries. The judgment clearly states that three countries are being convicted. The European Union is, of course, a lot bigger than those three countries. Then how are these other countries going to get that information and fight crime? Some kind of comparative legal investigation might be helpful, hence my motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u4	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Katleen Bury and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Katleen Bury and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice with responsibility for the North Sea, - having heard the interview held in public committee on 28 October 2020 concerning the consequences of the judgment of the European Court of Justice of 6 October 2020; - having regard to the 2016 data retention law which obliges Belgian telecom providers to keep a preventive record of the data of all their users for one year; - having regard to the fact that the Constitutional Court has requested clarification from the European Court of Justice; - having regard to the judgment of the Court of Justice of 6 October 2020 in which the Court held that the mass storage of data by the Belgian providers of all their users, referring to the data retention law, is contrary to the right to privacy; - whereas the interim judgment may have particularly significant implications, not least as regards the instruments available for carrying out criminal investigations; - having regard to the ruling of the President of the Research Courts Association that there are almost no cases in which telecom data is not used; - whereas there is also the possibility that the legality of the evidence obtained may be compromised in current criminal proceedings; - whereas waiting for the judgment of the Constitutional Court would be negligent and irresponsible, not only because of the fact that the view of the European Court will be followed in a particularly probable manner, but also because of the importance and possible repercussions of the judgment; asks the government - urgently take the necessary initiatives to adapt the relevant legislation so that, on the one hand, the views of the European Court of Justice can be taken into account, but, on the other hand, the current criminal and ongoing criminal investigations and investigations to be carried out are not compromised; - examine how other EU countries collect this data and conduct criminal investigations." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Katleen Bury and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Katleen Bury and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice, responsible for the North Sea, - having heard the inquiry of Ms Katleen Bury developed on 28 October 2020 at a public meeting of the Committee on Justice on the consequences of the judgment of 6 October 2020 of the Court of Justice of the European Union; - having regard to the Data Retention Act 2016, which obliges Belgian telecommunications service providers to keep the data of all their users as a preventive measure for a period of one year; - in the light of requests for explanations from the Constitutional Court to the Court of Justice of the European Union; - having regard to the judgment of 6 October 2020 of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which, referring to the Data Retention Act, considers that the large-scale storage by Belgian operators of data of all their users violates the right to privacy; Whereas the judgment delivered may have particularly serious implications, in particular as regards the instruments available for conducting criminal investigations; - Considering the statements of the President of the Association of Investigating Judges that few cases are still cases in which telecommunications data are not exploited; Whereas, moreover, the legality of evidence obtained in ongoing criminal cases may be compromised; - Whereas, since the vision of the Court of Justice of the European Union is most likely to be followed and, moreover, given the importance and possible impact of the judgment, it would be imprudent and unjustifiable to await the judgment of the Constitutional Court; asks the government - to take the necessary urgent steps to adapt the relevant legislation in order to comply with the vision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, on the one hand, and not to compromise current and future criminal cases and criminal instructions, on the other; - analyse the steps taken by other EU Member States to collect such data and conduct criminal investigations." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u5	Minister, I would like to congratulate you on your appointment as Minister of Justice. Having said that, Madam President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u6	Mrs Jadin, thank you for your wishes. Your question is about gambling. First of all, the EPIS list – which excludes players – is almost unique in Europe, so that it is not applied in neighbouring countries. Under European law, gambling remains a sovereign matter, which is regulated by each Member State as it sees fit. The Belgian system is the most severe in terms of exclusions. Secondly, the control of excluded persons is a matter for national legislation. For the time being, no exchange between countries is planned. Nevertheless, the gambling commission does not fail to inform interested parties who wish to be banned from playing abroad of the procedures in force in neighbouring countries. This information is also available on the website of the gambling commission. In addition, the EPIS system also allows foreign people to be excluded from current games in our country. This excludes 3,183 persons residing in France and 282 others living in the Netherlands. Your third question relates to the regular exchange of data with our neighbours. Since the exclusion system is typically Belgian, such exchanges do not exist, although European cooperation cannot be totally excluded in the future. Thank you for your suggestion. On the other hand, the gambling commission does not have access to figures from other states – data that do not necessarily exist, for the rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u7	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u8	Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u9	Madam Chair, Ms. Jadin, early release and interruption of sentence were two measures taken under the special powers whose validity expired on June 30th. The suspension of the execution of the sentence as provided for in Article 6 of the Royal Decree referred to above was granted for the duration of the period of validity of the order made within the framework of the special powers. Prior to the end date known at the time of the termination of the sentence, the convicted person had to contact the prison before determining whether the measure was extended or whether to return to the prison. Currently, no inmate benefits from the suspension of the execution of the "VOCID-19 coronavirus" sentence. A Coronavirus law providing for justice measures is now in preparation, with the aim of preventing the spread of the virus in prisons. We will probably have to take a number of steps to temporarily address overcrowding in prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u10	Minister, thank you very much for your very clear answer. We are now waiting to see how things will evolve.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u11	Minister, on 12 October, La Dernière Heure reported that a police judge in Hainaut ruled that the ministerial decision of 23 March 2020, i.e. one of the first ministerial decisions, amended on 3 April, was contrary to the Constitution. According to the judge, it was not the minister, but the legislative authority, which was responsible for adopting such measures. Consequently, the Minister or Government should not have taken any action on the basis of Article 182 of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007, on which the ministerial decisions are based. According to the judge, doing so would be contrary both to the law and to the Belgian Constitution. Minister, the questions were raised several times later by constitutionalists and were also on the agenda this morning to be addressed to the Prime Minister, but were not addressed. I hope that you have consulted with the Prime Minister and that there will be a globally agreed response. What is your view on the judge's verdict? Do you agree to his lecture? Why is that? Why is that? Have other judges, as far as you know, applied such a reading of the law and the Constitution? Were there any similar problems elsewhere? Will the court appeal? In the meantime, I heard that would seem to be the case. Is a change to the current ministerial decision necessary on the basis of the judgment? Why is that? Why is that? Is there a need for a legal and extra-legal basis in order to be able to safely issue the measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u12	Minister, containment measures were taken in a Ministerial Order dated March 23, 2020, last amended on May 30, 2020. On reading the ministerial decree, the Minister relies on three legal bases to impose these obligations and to be able to punish: article 4 of the Civil Protection Act of 31 December 1963, articles 11 and 42 of the Police Function Act of 5 August 1992 and articles 181, 182 and 187 of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007. Article 187 of the Act provides for the punishment of offences against measures ordered by a fine and/or imprisonment. For the so-called corona offences, the fine has been fixed at €750 for traders, operators and those responsible for an activity and €250 for all other offenders. However, if article 187 is read correctly, the Minister of the Interior and the mayors may, on the basis of the 2007 Act, provide for criminal sanctions in respect of the requisition of persons and the prohibition of movement or movement of the population. On the other hand, they are incompetent to impose on this basis the mandatory wearing of the mask, tracing, social distancing or rallies or, more precisely, they are incompetent to accompany these measures with the criminal sanctions provided for by the Law of 2007. On Monday, five students were fined €1250 because they were eating a sandwich together on a bench in the Grand Place of Courtrai. Minister, how do you explain that criminal fines for rallies of more than four people can be imposed without any legal basis? Do these criminal fines not violate the principle of legality? Since when can the executive create new criminal sanctions of its own accord? In the case of the five students, a small offence was clearly severely punished. What do you think of imposing sanctions that are totally disproportionate to the infringement? Do you think that imposing a fine can become an end in itself or do you prefer a preventive approach towards a better understanding of measures to combat coronavirus, measures that are constantly being changed from week to week?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u13	Mr Van Hecke, you ask my view on the judge's ruling, but you understand, of course, that it is not appropriate for me, as Minister of Justice, to comment on a judge's decision. You also asked whether other judges had applied such a reading of the law and the Constitution. As far as I know, and in the context of the development of the still limited case-law in this area, it is an isolated decision, including the district of Charleroi. Indeed, Charleroi's correctional court has already condemned several defendants for non-compliance with COVID-19 measures, without such arguments being raised and, a fortiori, a court ruled on them. The judgment by the correctional court concerned facts that were committed before the legislator handed over the jurisdiction over the COVID-19 infringements to the police court. The Public Prosecutor's Office has already appealed against the judgment on 23 September and the date of the hearing of the correctional court of the court of first instance of Hainaut, Charleroi Division on 20 October. At that hearing on 20 October, Charleroi's correctional court should have been aware of the appeal against the judgment of the police court in question. Since the defendant had a mental disability, the court postponed the case until December 22nd of this year to allow him to elect a counselor to insure his defence. Since the verdict, the same police judge has taken a dozen other decisions based on the same motives. Yesterday, an appeal was also brought by the King's Attorney of Charleroi, who asked his services to record them as soon as possible. For your information, that case law was invoked for the first time by the Bergen Court of Appeal by the counsel of a defendant who had brought an action. The initial jurisdiction of the correctional court and the appeal court is justified here by the date of the facts, which is set for the transfer of jurisdiction from the correctional court to the police court. The court invited the prosecution and counsel of the defendant to exchange their conclusions. The hearing was held on 12 January 2021. Therefore, unless the previous recording of files is considered, the arguments of the Police Justice of Charleroi will not be subject to the examination of a higher case-law before 22 December. You also asked for an amendment to the current ministerial decision. Mr Van Hecke, the judgment of Charleroi does not call for an amendment to the existing ministerial decision, to the extent that it is an isolated legal decision, which is not final. Whatever the final ruling, since it concerns the basis of the Ministerial Decision, namely the Civil Security Act, and not the Ministerial Decision itself, the response to future infringements will not be found in an adaptation of a Ministerial Decision, but in the scope of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007. I now come to your questions, Mr. Boukili. The first concerns the lack of a legal basis for imposing criminal fines for rallies of more than four people. In this regard, I would like to recall that the latest emergency measures to limit the spread of coronavirus are contained in the ministerial decree of 18 October. Article 29 of the Decree provides for penalties for non-compliance with these measures. This ministerial decree and the question of the legal basis fall within the competence of my colleague Minister of the Interior, who will be better able to provide you with an informed answer. With regard to your second question concerning the punishment of the five students and their proportionality, it is not for me to comment on the details of an individual case. However, I can point out that in COL 06 of the College of Attorneys General, non-compliance with one of the measures imposed by the ministerial decree is systematically the subject of a detailed report by the police services, except in cases of manifest good faith of the persons arrested. COL 06 also provides a special chapter on the treatment of offences committed by minors. Finally, you ask me whether imposing a fine can become an end in itself or whether a preventive approach towards a better understanding of measures to combat coronavirus is preferable. In this regard, it is true that the measures continue to evolve from week to week and that it can be difficult for citizens to find themselves there. However, we are trying to make these measures as comprehensible as possible to the population. The Government calls on the citizen's conscience and the mobilization of all to respect the measures adopted. Unfortunately, this is not always enough. A fine is a deterrent that complements the authorities' preventive action against those who refuse to comply with the measures in force. I can tell you again. These measures are not to punish but to protect citizens, to protect nurses, seniors, teachers and the whole population.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u14	Thank you, Minister. I understand it's hard for you to judge a judge's verdict. That is very delicate, given the separation of powers. In substance, it is important that there is a solid legal basis to base all measures already taken and yet to be taken, with sufficient legal certainty. As you pointed out in the chronology, the appeal against the order of the police judge will not be dealt with before the court until 22 December, which means that the judgment may fall a month later, as is often the case. So maybe we won't know until January whether the correctional court accepts the decisions of the police judge or not. That's a long time. Is there no risk that we will be in legal uncertainty for a number of months about the legal basis or not for the measures? That is the important question. It is essential, of course, whether the legal basis used today is Article 182 of the Civil Security Act, whether or not it is a sufficient legal basis. There's a discussion about that at the police judge's office. A number of constitutionalists have also asked questions about this. It is therefore not advisable, pending the judgment of the correctional court in January, to carry out further legal investigations into possible improvements to the legal basis, precisely so that you do not have to wait months for certainty that the court may bring. Shouldn't Parliament make this exercise with the government? If it is necessary to improve the legal basis or if a new legal basis needs to be created, it seems to me that Parliament is prepared to do this work quickly and adequately. We need to consider whether we want to run the risk of waiting until January. Do we have time for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, I have planned to address my question also to the Minister of the Interior. I also planned to put it to the Prime Minister, but the opportunity did not come up. You told me about the royal decrees. One of the elements is the enlargement of administrative sanctions. In this case, it is not an administrative sanction but a criminal sanction. However, it must find its source in a law. It is the principle of a rule of law and that is what makes the difference between a rule of law and an authoritarian State, where the executive acts without a legislative framework. That's why I'm asking you. Is it normal for a rule of law to impose criminal sanctions that do not come from a criminal law? That's my question! You told me about royal decrees, which talk about administrative sanctions. This is not the case with regard to the sanctions imposed on the five young people. These were criminal sanctions!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u16	Madam President, I would like to point out that my first two questions concern the Paifve social defence institution, while the other two are of a more general nature.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u17	I suspect the Minister has prepared a joint response.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u18	Madam President, I would like to put my question to the President-in-Office. 55010165C would like to turn into a written question if the Minister can give me the answer quickly. This could speed up the work of the committee. Minister, you are aware of the report recently prepared by the Central Penitentiary Supervision Board on the Paifve Prison. In particular, it points to the situation and the problems faced by legal psychiatry centres, particularly in Paifve. There is a glaring lack of psychiatrists in relation to the psychiatric needs of some detainees. It also notes the fact that there would be only one psychiatrist able to carry out expertise for approximately 200 patients in custody. Minister, my questions are quite simple. What do you remember from the recent report? Could original solutions be considered to improve the care to be administered in such a facility?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u19	Madam Chair, I will begin by asking my two questions about Paifve and then I will ask the other two.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u20	That is good for me, but I think the Minister will put your questions together in his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u21	Madam President, Mr Boukili, I will answer all the questions at once.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u22	Minister, let us recall that on 7 September 2016, the European Court of Human Rights condemned Belgium because the conditions for the internment of the social defence institution (ESD) in Paifve were contrary to human dignity. Four years later, nothing was done. On 14 October, the Central Penitentiary Supervision Board gave a press conference on the Paifve ESD and the alarming report on the medical care of interned patients who are far from receiving the care required by their condition. The first problem lies in an ultra-restricted medical team. Since December 11, 2019, the lack of psychiatrists has meant that medical presence is, on average, less than two minutes per intern per day. In addition, there are no nurses to follow up on treatments and parameters in the evenings, nights and weekends. Second problem, Paifve's EDS is considered a prison and treated as a prison but they are sick people stuck in the prison environment. Paifve's EDS should be managed by the Ministry of Public Health as they are patients and are entitled to appropriate care. The government statement of La Vivaldi announces that "it will be taken into account that the internees are not in their place in the prison environment". Minister, is Paifve's ESD recognized as a health care facility? Is it subject to the INAMI standards? If not, why this lack of recognition? How soon will you be able to ensure a complete health care team at the Paifve ESD? Is it normal for psychologists to pay for their own accreditation? How is it that the Paifve nurses' scale is less interesting than at the hospital? Will you increase it to facilitate recruitment and set up night, evening and weekend teams? That is my second question. Paifve's EDS is the forgotten of society. Staff do what they can, but they lack support. The state is not very concerned about this institution, and if it is, it is more in a safe approach. Health care is second to none, which threatens the health of internees. I would remind you that the state is committed to caring for the sick. On the ground, however, conditions of internment are observed which are completely contrary to human dignity. Despite Belgium's repeated condemnations by the European Court of Human Rights, the necessary measures were slow to be taken. Since 2008, plans for an expansion of capacity have been on the table. Since 2010, following a hostage taking, plans for a new portico have also been proposed. Currently, it is easier to enter Paifve than in a sugar company. Since 2016, it has been planned to build a legal psychiatry centre on its grounds. What did the Department of Justice do? What did the Régie des Bâtiments do? Nothing. Nothing has progressed. No one is informed of anything, not even management. The government statement Vivaldi stresses that the execution of master plans for prisoners and internees will be continued and updated after evaluation. Mr Minister, what measures have already been taken for internees within the framework of your predecessor's master plans, Mr Koen Geens? How is it possible to dispense with additional accommodation capacity when plans have been in existence for a long time? When will extension work begin? How can we dispense with the most basic security when portico and renovation plans have been in place for a long time? When will the renovation begin? As I said earlier, you are planning to build a legal psychiatry centre on the lands of Paifve prison. When will this work begin? Finally, do you intend to introduce a private guard company, by only implementing a portico for the PLC and the prison? Let me turn to my third question. Paifve's ESD and its internees are completely neglected by the authorities and society. It is thanks to the investment of prison officers that these people are not abandoned. But these agents are not specifically trained in the particular situation of internees (psychiatric, psychotic, dementia, addictions, etc.).). Some internees are particularly dangerous. There are more accidents at work and therefore more absences. However, in addition to not receiving adequate training, staff are understaffed on a constant basis. Minister, are you going to put in place specific training modules on the topic of internment for Paifve staff and the new legal psychiatry centres you plan to create? Will you set up an additional medical contribution in the event of an accident at work? The training on deradicalization modules in prisons, to be given to prison officers by the Deradex cell, is no longer even one. This is a highly recommended e-learning and to follow outside working hours. Minister, do you think this is the most ambitious method of de-radicalizing our prisons? The latest protocol 464 of 2018 provides for a hiring plan of 50 officers per month. Recruitment and training obviously go hand in hand. However, the Marneffe training centre is not a permanent and large institution. Training has steadily decreased in terms of content and quality in recent years. There is no search for a structural solution to extremely difficult working conditions. Minister, are you going to come back to this policy and review upwards and the training hours of prison officers? I come to my last question. In particular, at the establishment of Paifve, successive management notes ask officers not to walk in uniform outside the establishment for several years, for their own safety. However, there is still no locker room in the prison. Therefore, Minister, I wonder. Has this recommendation been addressed to all prison officers in the country? How many establishments can count on separate men's and women's lockers, with lockers for all staff? Regarding uniforms and equipment, we receive many testimonies that the department is unable to provide. Officers from Lantin Prison have been ordering new pants for the past five years. They still haven't received anything. Minister, in concrete terms, what equipment does a prison officer receive when he enters service? How many outfits, sweaters, shirts, pants, pairs of shoes? Is the equipment renewed every year, every two years or every three years? How many orders were not processed in 2019 and 2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your various questions. My particular attention in the Central Council report has been the fact that the recommendations are widely included in the government agreement. As regards the approach to infrastructure to be built to address overcrowding in prisons, this is included in the implementation of the master plan. In the case of interned persons, priority will be given to the construction of new legal psychiatry centres in Alost, Wavre and Paifve. Internees are not in their place in the prison environment. The current social defence facility in Paifve will thus be replaced by a 250-seat forensic psychiatric centre by 2025, which will meet the standards of supervision for the care of forensic psychiatry centres in Ghent and Antwerp. It is not currently possible to determine the start date of the work, with the process of activation of the market still to be initiated. The legal psychiatry centre in Paifve will function as a psychiatric hospital. Security will be provided by a wide range of medical and paramedical personnel. Therefore, there will be no surveillance officers in contact with patients. Surveillance is part of an operating contract awarded but only relates to the outside area, not the treatment of patients. It is perfectly possible to operate two establishments on the same site, which is wide enough to avoid any contact between the two establishments. Pending this, the Régie des Bâtiments will consider improvements to existing facilities. The implementation of a doorman's lodge plan and other renovations is linked to the PLC's construction file. In this way, the Government will increase the level of mental health care for prisoners and internees in the prison administration to that applied in society and will draw on, inter alia, the legal psychiatry centres. He will incorporate this point into the assessment of masterplans. Federal entities and the federal government will work together to prepare for active reintegration at the beginning of incarceration through individual detention plans. With regard to the situation in Paifve, in addition to constructive cooperation with local management, I have noted the following remarks: the lack of health personnel and the shortage of safety personnel due to illness mean that patients must stay in their rooms for long periods of time. Under the previous legislature, the Minister of Justice and his colleague in charge of public health have focused on expanding the external care system, increasing the number of places for internees in outpatient hospitals and providing resources for staff who form a bridge between prisons and outpatient facilities. The objective was and remains to get the internees out of the prisons, where they do not have their place. The provision of additional staff, including psychiatrists, is also integrated into the overall extension of the care framework, as requested. However, there is a shortage of psychiatrists and health workers on the market. Here too, it is difficult to predict deadlines. In addition, an extension of two agreements for the Paifve Social Defence Institution, with the Public Health FPS, aimed at strengthening the provision of care, was decided under the previous legislature. It provides for 2.5 full-time nurses and 2.5 full-time paramedics for a more intensive reintegration preparation section. I would like to point out that the current Paifve SDS is not a healthcare facility in the strict sense of the word. Consequently, it is not subject as such to INAMI standards or to the Health Inspectorate. This is a historic situation, but it is not for the FPS Justice to provide care. This is all the more justification for the creation of new centres for legal psychiatry. As Paifve's ESD is not a hospital, staff are paid in accordance with the salary scale in the federal public service. To the best of my knowledge, there is no fee related to the FPS Public Health visa, nor to the French Community's approval for psychologists. With regard to training issues, I would like to point out that in 2015 a basic training specifically aimed at psychiatric annex agents of the Paifve ESD was introduced. Such a core module is organized every four to five years taking into account the possible rotation of the staff of these annexes and the ESD. In 2016, training on the new law on internment was also organized for surveillance staff of psychiatric annexes and ESD. It should be noted that the staff of the new PLC will not be dependent on the FPS Justice. The four-hour e-learning module on radicalisation has been designed in a very professional way and its content has been validated by the relevant bodies. In addition, the information that this module was to be followed outside of work is incorrect. Access to this e-learning is organised and planned during working hours and within the institutions themselves. It is not a question of deradicalization, but of the detection of radicalism. Disengagement takes place in cooperation with the services of the Communities. In addition, training centres have always been careful to observe the flow of entry into service (even when it is important) and to offer basic training to new staff of good quality, regardless of the number of hours allocated to them. This training includes theoretical parts and other situational exercises within the simulation wing. The current initial training is 350 hours, equivalent to 50 full days spread over the entire year of the internship. However, it must be noted that initial training is regularly put under pressure by the institutions due to structural deficiencies in the number of supervisory staff. I regret that. The recruitment process has been adapted on several occasions, but too few candidates appear. In this area, the prison administration is likely to suffer from competition with the private sector. However, efforts have been made to raise awareness of job vacancies through social media and to promote prison functions in job exchanges. In the case of changing rooms, nine institutions do not have them and nine do not have separate spaces for men and women. On the other hand, all establishments have individual lockers, but three of them are not sufficient. As for the uniform, I confirm that it was again recommended, in April of this year, to all officers to avoid its visible port on the way to work, following a threat assessment carried out by the OCAM. In addition, I refer to the Ministerial Order of 28 October 2009 determining the equipment and equipment made available to security and corrections officers of the Prisons Branch of the Federal Public Service Justice. This order details the clothing that prison officers receive upon entry into service. You will allow me to spare you the enumeration of these articles. Each year, correctional officers can renew their kit using a point system. All major articles were recommended in 2019 and 2020. The last deliveries of trousers will be made again this year and in the first half of 2021. In principle, prison officers will receive the items ordered in the year following the year in which they ordered them. It is true that deliveries of trousers and parkas were delayed for a few years following the bankruptcy of the largest supplier and that the conclusion of a new contract was also delayed due to the cumbersome procedures. This problem is solved and the delay will be caught up in the course of 2021. Finally, I would point out that the comments on the preliminary draft report of the Central Penitentiary Supervision Council, both of the Minister in charge of Public Health and of the Director General of Penitentiary Institutions, are published in the final report. With regard to internment, additional places have also been created in regular psychiatry. For the new PLCs, a consultant will be appointed to accompany the DBFMO procedure. In the government agreement, the construction of CPL is given priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u24	Minister, thank you for these very detailed answers. I am, of course, pleased that the government agreement has been able to identify new avenues for remedying this situation. Recruitment problems persist in the justice system. Perhaps we will need – as is the case in other branches of the public service – to look at the communication aspects in order to make work in a CPS more attractive. In the times that run, it could be useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u25	Minister, thank you for really answering our questions. It's something we're not really used to. Similarly, I appreciate the clarity of your detailed answers. I know that the situation was not pink when you took office. In addition, the workload is high. Unfortunately, the urgency is equally urgent in several cases. Moreover, your findings confirm all the evidence on the ground and the questions put to us by the prison officers. So you recalled the lack of health and surveillance personnel – and in general in prison institutions. If nurses working in institutions such as Paifve receive a lower salary than their colleagues in hospital, it is because they are dependent on the FPS. I agree with you. However, Minister, you will understand that it is not attractive enough to recruit nurses in Paifve, for example. If he is better paid at the hospital, it makes sense that he will work elsewhere than in prison. Consideration should be given to the remuneration of health-care workers if substantial medical assistance is to be provided in this type of institution. As far as the material is concerned, you have given me the conditions for renewing it, but it is a theory. In fact, in the field, some institutions have been waiting for equipment for years. I gave the example of Lantin's prison where we've been waiting for pants for five years now. I can understand that a company has gone bankrupt, but in five years it seems to me that alternatives could have been found, especially in times running. You have confirmed that there is no locker room everywhere in our institutions when there is an obligation for officers not to be in uniform outside the prison. If we impose this on them, how can we change within the prison without changing rooms? This is a problem to be solved, either by amending the directive or by setting up the necessary infrastructure. Minister, these situations are urgent and unfortunately have existed for a long time, long before you arrived. Their importance is amplified especially in a situation of health crisis like the one we are experiencing today. I have also recently learned that, in Antwerp prison, a confinement was being put in place, in particular, as a result of the contamination of an inmate who shares his cell with eight other prisoners. As a result, a whole wing is confined. The issue of safety and health in our prisons requires an urgent solution and must be taken with arms. I count on you, Minister, to deploy as much of your energy as possible to meet the demands of the staff for whom the situation becomes unsustainable. I want proof of the many testimonies we receive.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u26	Madam President, Minister, my question comes from a fact that was reported on 13 October by the press that it was possible that 66 incidents of robberies perpetrated by an organized gang of about ten young people in the region of Liège in 2013 could be prescribed because of the health crisis of the coronavirus. The review of this case, scheduled for May 2020 in the correctional court, was postponed because at the time we were in the middle of a period of VOCID. Last September, it was set a second time to be postponed again, following the measures taken in the context of the health crisis. In fact, since the courts allowed only a dozen people with masks and social distancing in the courtrooms, it was not possible to hold this trial in a face-to-face manner. In view of the number of defendants, civil parties and lawyers, the authorized number was far exceeded. In view of the health situation, it is possible that the case may again be postponed in 2021 with, if appealed, a prescription of the facts to the key and, therefore, impunity. My question, Minister, of course, is not about this particular fact, which is still under way, but about the principle. At present, is this an isolated case or is there a number of such cases? Any discussions with the judicial authorities are under way to find a pragmatic solution to this situation, such as, for example, the provision of a larger room? Are there other similar situations likely to flow? Consider taking steps to avoid any resulting prescriptions specific arrangements for the organization of the courts in the context of the second wave of the VOCID? If measures are planned, what are they?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u27	Mr Bacquelaine, in response to your first question and on the basis of the information provided to me by the Chief of Staff concerning the case you are raising, I can tell you that, during the confinement of the first wave, the limitation periods were suspended by royal decree until 17 June. No extensions were planned after that date. Beyond this, it is true that all cases involving more than 25 persons were postponed from May with the consent of the Public Prosecutor's Office, with the exception of cases involving detainees and cases where the Public Prosecutor's Office considered that there were no special risks such as the prescription of a certain degree of danger. To answer your second question, I can tell you that a large room is available and will be the subject of logistical arrangements. In fact, it was in this room that the trial of the accused in the explosion of Leopold Street was held recently. Many people were involved in this case. In this way, files can be safely processed in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u28	Minister, thank you for these reassuring answers. I would be grateful if you would be careful to avoid impunity during the crisis of the VOCID-19, which would be detrimental to the image of our justice to the citizen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u29	Madam President, Minister, on 16 September I asked your predecessor, Minister Geens, about a new phenomenon in the gambling sector, i.e. simulated reality. After all, the gambling sector is creative and is always looking for new things. The Minister then informed us, I quote: "The phenomenon of simulated reality was investigated by the Gaming Commission. The opinion will be discussed today in the Gaming Commission, after which it will be delivered to me." Today, however, as far as we know, the Gaming Commission has not yet taken a position on the new games. I therefore have a few very specific questions. First of all, was the opinion on simulated reality discussed by the Gaming Commission in the meantime? If not, why not and when will it be discussed? Secondly, was the advice on simulated reality delivered to you in the meantime? If so, what is the conclusion? On the basis of what provisions was this conclusion reached? If not, why not? Thirdly, will the opinion be published on the website of the Gaming Commission? Fourthly, if the Gaming Commission has decided that simulated reality is not allowed, how will this decision be maintained?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u30	Madam President, Mr Van Hecke, thank you for your questions on the Gaming Commission. I have seen that you and other Members are asking a lot of questions about the functioning of the Gaming Commission. This is a difficult problem. I am aware of that. We have also made sure that our cabinet has good staff, in order to make significant improvements together with the members of the Gaming Commission. I'll give you that as an introduction. Firstly, in reply to your questions about the simulated reality, I note that on 16 September 2020 the Gaming Commission did indeed deliver an opinion, which was delivered to my predecessor and I. What's the conclusion? Simulated reality betting is not allowed within the current regulatory framework for two reasons. Firstly, it cannot be guaranteed that the simiulated reality betting is based on uncertain events, which is literally in the definition of betting in Article 2.5 of the Gaming Act. I read for what a bet is: "a game of chance in which each player makes a bet and where profit or loss is generated that is not dependent on an act made by the player, but on the realization of an uncertain event, which occurs without the intervention of the players." It cannot be guaranteed that the simulated reality betting is based on uncertain events and that the games are not based on a real event or an event, because the results are generated by AI or Artificial Intelligence, which is the result of an initial human input or intervention through the use of algorithms. Consequently, that kind of bet does not meet the definition of a bet. Second, they do not meet the conditions of the Royal Decree of 4 May 2018 on virtual sporting events and cannot therefore be considered virtual betting on sporting events. Especially the fact that the simulated matches are based on real competitions and sports teams and the game is not based on a random generator but again on Artificial Intelligence, make sure that they are not in accordance with the Royal Decree. Your third question is whether the opinion will be published. At its meeting, the Gaming Commission decided to write to the operators first. We therefore wish to await the answer to our letter, since it is a completely new phenomenon. We will, of course, inform the public afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u31	Minister, of course I am very pleased with your answer. I didn't know what the decision was, but I think it's a very legitimate decision. You said it in your introduction, it is a very important problem. It has known a huge tree in recent years, because a lot of providers, although we have clear legislation, have tried to look up the borders and sometimes go over them. We have a watchdog, which should be much stricter, namely the Gaming Commission. It must ensure that everything that is offered is indeed in conformity with the law as we know it. You know, Minister, that we have been working for years on much stricter gambling legislation. After all, we must not underestimate it; gambling creates enormous problems in society. There are hundreds of thousands of people who somehow have problems, but they're almost invisible. I am therefore very pleased that the government agreement states that work will be done to tighten up gambling legislation and that the functioning of the Gaming Commission will be looked at in order to improve it. You'll find a partner in us there. I hope for a very good cooperation, in order to do this properly. It is important that today, with the legislation and the royal decrees as they exist today, the Gaming Commission strictly controls and complies with the legislation. That is very important. In a second phase, we must consider whether we can tighten up. Minister, I am very pleased with your answer. I also hope, and that was my fourth question, to which you did not actually answer, that this decision will ensure proper enforcement, that the Gaming Commission will act effectively if that decision is not respected on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u32	Minister, last weekend in Anderlecht, an illegal party with some 200 attendees was shut down in shishabar 'Dubai VIP'. Since last week, a ban on catering has been in force in the Brussels region. That was what the manager of the shishabar wanted to avoid by lowering the shutters so that the case seemed closed, but the police got a call from an anonymous caller who heard suspiciously a lot of noise coming from inside.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u33	Mrs Bury, six minutes were drawn up in connection with this intervention, in particular for non-respect of closure, unarmed rebellion, theft by force of a radio, non-respect for COOVID-19 measures, damage to property and abuse of company property. A judicial arrest was made in the context of rebellion. After interrogation, the parole board decided to release the suspects. No administrative arrests were made. For the small majority who knowingly violate the corona rules, there must be a strict enforcement policy. If you don't want to hear it, feel it. The updated COL 6/2020 of the College of Attorneys General confirms this principle. Over the last few days, my colleague from the Interior has said on several occasions that the police will also maintain this principle in the field. Of course, it is up to the different police forces to enforce strictly. That can't be repeated enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. That is indeed very important, given the second almost lockdown. We do not know what that will lead to. In order for people to comply with the rules, it is important not to work with two sizes and two weights. We see that the five people who eat a sandwich on a couch in your city are all fined, while the 200 people who sit in that bar have only a few minutes written off. I certainly do not see 200 COOVID-19 trial reports there. These issues need to be dealt with consistently. It is only in this way that we will be able to maintain order and that people will not be baloric and say that we are working with two sizes and two weights and that we are no longer dared to act in Brussels and they are. It's not gonna be okay. That's what you're saying. I will keep my finger on the pulse and I hope that will be fulfilled by both ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u35	Two weeks ago, Minister, I asked you about the vigilance we have to exercise at this time. We have all been able to read in the press, and also in various case law, about the conformity with the law and the Constitution of the measures currently being taken. My colleague has already asked questions about this. There is also a series of other disputes. The problem is next. It would appear that, already for several weeks, there has been a very serious difficulty of access to the court. I am told that in many judicial districts, especially in Brussels, cases in which there are requests under Article 19.3 of the Judicial Code would only be settled in several months. For information and anecdote, a case initiated in September would be fixed only in April 2021, on the basis of article 19.3 of the Judicial Code. You'll admit it's intriguing. This applies to all types of litigation, and I am adding an element that is not in my question, but that I am giving for information. I am told that since the last steps taken, in particular by the Brussels government, for the judicial district of Brussels since yesterday, a great deal of hearings have been postponed sine die, including extremely urgent cases. You will agree that when it comes to dealing with urgent measures, such a time limit is unreasonable; especially since it is usually granted a very rapid fixing, in one or two weeks, and a judgment is given just as quickly. However, these difficulties seem to emerge both from the particular period we all know and from the lack of technical and human resources that justice has been experiencing for a very long time, but also from the lack of a standard that would allow the functioning of the courts to be structured since the end of the special powers on 30 June. Minister, in view of this, I have two questions. Are urgent measures under review to ensure that access to the court is provided within a short period of time? Could you please tell me whether any proposals will be submitted to us in order to allow the courts and tribunals to organise themselves during this period, since the previously applicable provisions are no longer so? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u36	"Minister, On 23 October last, the tribunal de l'entreprise francophone de Bruxelles adopted an order to adapt its organisation to the shortage of staff due to the resurgence of the Covid-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u37	•Do you have an emergency strategy to ensure access to the courts and wider access to justice for litigants, in a period as crucial as the one in which we are?"
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, your questions refer to two distinct but also related aspects. First, with regard to the allocation of resources to each jurisdiction according to the workload, the College of Courts and Courts, chaired by Ms. Fabienne Bayard, is working on the implementation of a tool to measure this workload to allocate to each entity, according to the volume and processing time defined by the type of case, the necessary human resources of magistrates and staff. I have already met twice with Mrs Bayard and Vice-President Willockx. A working meeting on this point in my office is also planned on 6 November to allow the College to present me with the progress of this priority project for the College. It is therefore not yet in a position to verify whether the shortage of staff is objective or not. In the meantime, plans for vacant places have been drawn up by the former Minister of Justice on the basis of legal frameworks with a theoretical filling rate of 90 per cent for judges and 87.5 per cent for staff, on the basis of a proposal by the College based on the same criteria and on the taking into account of specific data provided by the heads of bodies. The shortage of judicial candidates and the slow pace of statutory selection procedures explain, at least in part, that some teams are understaffed. As regards the functioning of the courts during the period of VOCID-19 and on the occasion of a common "corona communication" drafted at the beginning of the judicial year 2020-2021, the College has formally stressed that the functioning of the courts and tribunals should remain as normal as possible and that, therefore, all the sittings of the cases should be possible within the framework mentioned. In other words, continuity of service must be guaranteed. The College obviously wishes to ensure the health of all judicial staff and visitors to the judicial buildings. During the summer, the College of Courts followed the situation very closely and, in particular, analysed the decisions taken by the CNS. These decisions in themselves had no impact on the functioning of the courts and tribunals. Now that the pandemic is spreading intensively again, I am in the process of analysing, in consultation with the judicial sectors, what urgent, legal or other measures are required, if any. I am thinking in particular of hearings by videoconference or written procedures. COL 3 of this year also provided that the College of Attorneys General (...), which has the consequence, among other things, that the wearing of the mask in the judicial buildings is mandatory.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u39	Minister, thank you for the answers that have been provided to us. Indeed, the health security of magistrates, collaborators, clerks, etc. the court is essential. You're right to call him back here. This is a concern that I was raising, and I think you share our concern that the courts should operate normally and as soon as possible. There is a factual situation that leads to impossibility. I mean, you're working on the issue of video conferencing and video conferencing to make it easier. I can only invite you to try to go as quickly as possible because having an eight-month processing time for a 19/3 is abnormally long and prevents access to a court. There are sometimes cases of day-to-day affairs (custodial, rental, creditor-debtor cases). The difficulties are added to the difficulties when there is not even this possibility of access to a magistrate only to make his case heard. I know you're sensitive to it. I simply ask you to ensure that this situation is normalized, as you call it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answers. If I asked you in particular about the situation at the court level of the French-speaking company, it is because it is truly symptomatic of the shortage of staff that affects all jurisdictions in the country, with dramatic consequences for those who are litigants. As you have rightly said, unfortunately today we are probably moving towards a new confinement and we cannot imagine that, throughout this time, justice will be totally at a standstill. I understand that steps will be taken precisely to ensure that the continuity of public service and justice is ensured, but that is short-term. Long-term action will also be required. In particular, I am thinking of speeding up the digitisation of our justice system and of filling the legal frameworks of judges. In this regard, I am very concerned about what is provided for in your government agreement. It is in fact a question of finally replacing these legal frameworks with a better distribution of the workload between the courts, except that it is in the long term. Today, therefore, we will not be able to foresee solutions for the courts that are literally overloaded and therefore need reinforcement now. There is also talk of further recruitment of prosecutors without a guarantee of independence specific to a magistrate. That is why I will not fail to ask you further questions as part of your policy brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u41	Minister, the separation between religion and state is one of the most important values in our country. In Belgium, training has long been organized for religions in which these values are endorsed. Recently, an imam training program was started in collaboration with the KUL. This training offers an opportunity to embed our Belgian values enormously in an education for imams and at the same time to prevent radical extremist influences from abroad. In March 2020, I also questioned your predecessor about this training. Today I have the following questions for you. First of all, what's the status of this training today? How many pupils registered and participated in the first year of the training? Was the training successful or not? Have there been any new entries following the start of the new academic year? If yes, how many registrations are involved? Secondly, the curriculum of the theological training was not fully completed in March 2020. Is that even the case today? If yes, what is included? Thirdly, how will it be ensured, with respect for the separation of religion and state, that radical foreign influences are excluded from education? Fourthly, has the FPS Justice already carried out an audit of the AFOR vzw's accounts and the Executive's accounts, as promised? If so, what were the conclusions? I have one more question. In France today they are looking at the organisation of an imam training course in their own country. There would also be a framework for funding training. Any organisation requesting grants for training will have to sign a contract with which it supports the values of the Republic, including equality between men and women and the separation between religion and state. In fact, I believe that France might have gotten the mustard for the idea from us. As a third condition for admission to the KUL training, participants must be familiar with the Belgian fundamental values and principles of law, as it is called. When, in March, I asked Minister None on this matter how he saw the concrete implementation of that condition, I unfortunately did not receive an answer. In that respect, I would like to repeat that question to you. How was that third condition tested with the first participants of the programme? Did any trouble show up here?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u42	Mr Metsu, you asked how many students took part in the training. For the academic year 2019-2020 11 students were enrolled at the KU Leuven. 4 students completed the first year and are now working on the second year. The current statutes of the AFOR association were published in the annex to the Belgian Official Journal on 2 August 2019. There is a protocol between this non-profit organisation and the Muslim executive, which mandates the non-profit organisation AFOR to train the operators of Islamic worship in Belgium and the Islamic religious frameworks in our country. The Royal Decree granting a grant of 192,000 euros for the operation of the training was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 31 March 2020. The curriculum was not finished in March 2020. The preparation of the programme and the budget for theological training is still under way. No traineeships abroad are planned as part of the training organised by AFOR for the servants of the Islamic worship service. You asked a question about the accounts. There must indeed be transparency about these accounts, in the context of the new management of the Grand Mosque in Brussels and the training of imams. As has been said, this training is in progress with the Royal Decree of 20 March 2020. I would like to make sure, together with the services, that this is done in accordance with the spirit of the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry following the attacks on 22 March. The audit of the AFOR vzw's accounts shall be carried out in accordance with Article 3 of the Royal Decree of 18 March 2020. With regard to the audit of the Muslim executive's accounts, the previous government entered into commitments. After the departure of the Islamic and Cultural Centre from the Great Mosque, a concession was concluded between the Government of the Buildings and the Executive, which started on 1 April 2019. However, the Royal Decree of 18 March 2020 was only recently implemented, with part of the mentioned money being deposited. It is therefore too early for conclusions to be drawn, but be sure that we will monitor this strictly. Article 2 of the Royal Decree of 18 March 2020 states its purpose: "In order to organise a study programme in order to ensure the training and awareness-raising of the servants of the Islamic worship service in Belgium, with the aim of familiarising those concerned with the fundamental values of the Belgian State and the resulting legal principles, in cooperation with the Belgian universities KU Leuven and Université catholique de Louvain, aims to provide means of action in the context of prevention, awareness raising and the fight against terrorism and radicalisation." This article shows that being familiar with the Belgian fundamental values and principles of law is an objective of the training but not a condition. Such training shall be subject to the same conditions of access as any other university training. It is not clear whether a candidate accepts the Belgian fundamental values or principles of law. Our intelligence and security services are working on issues relating to terrorism, extremism, espionage and interference, and it is their work that can lead to certain measures. Furthermore, it seems to me to be entirely in line with the objectives of our education to teach students those fundamental values during their training.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for the answers. Let me be clear, we certainly do not underestimate the importance of imam training. Better a well-educated imam than an imam who gets the mustard on dubious websites on the internet or here preach a vision from the mountains of the Berbers. However, it remains important to monitor this imam training so that it will never become a breeding ground for extremism or radicalisation. Good control is essential, and the N-VA is all too aware of this. I'll keep following this up with you. I'm very interested in this. I can't ask another question, but I can make another suggestion. Maybe the Muslim executive could be involved. I think it would be good if the government worked more closely with the Muslim executive to get to know each other better. The Muslim executive is still the representative body of the Muslims in Belgium. I think we often miss the voice of the Muslim executive. Among other things, the debate on the murder of Samuel Paty remained very quiet there. I think that counter-narrative net is crucial. I would also very much like to hear their views in the various debates. Thank you for your answer and I will continue to follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u44	Minister, 41% lower could be our recidivism rates if we put more effort into traffic courses. That's what the Traffic Institute Vias says. The recidivism rates for traffic offences are sky high in our country. Almost half of the road users convicted of a traffic offence again commit an offence and 30% of them are convicted again the same year. It is not the first time that the decision has been taken that, in the case of traffic offences, the imposition of alternative penalties such as a course of traffic can have a greater impact than the more classic fine. However, several police judges do not currently opt for the imposition of a traffic course because they believe that the recidivists will get away too cheaply. They propose to make the course pay, as in our neighbouring countries. My questions are as follows, Minister. How do you evaluate the number of traffic courses required? How do you interpret these numbers? Do you follow the conclusions of this Vias study and are you in favour of more traffic courses? If so, what will you do so that an alternative penalty is chosen more often? If not, why not? Are you in favour of making the courses pay? Why is that? Why is that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u45	Mrs Buyst, I would like to thank you for the interesting questions on road safety, to which I will also refer in my policy statement, even though it is stricto sensu which is a responsibility of the Minister for Mobility. However, it is a shared competence and is also something that has been of particular concern to me as mayor. As far as your first question is concerned, it is unfortunately not possible for me to provide statistics on convictions and the suspension of probation for which the condition is to take a course on road safety, because the conditions of probation are not recorded in the criminal record. As for your second question, the Vias study shows the effectiveness of courses as an alternative punishment for a traditional sanction such as a fine. It is interesting to note that, according to Vias, providing training as an alternative is more effective for those who commit a first offence. That finding calls for the activation of the system of courses as an alternative penalty for immediate collection, as referred to in Article 65 of the Road Traffic Police Act. This type of training could indeed be offered to drivers who receive an initial immediate collection, provided, however, that the Royal Decree laying down the modalities of alternative training is adopted. I'll look into this with my colleague from Mobility. As far as your third question is concerned, the prosecutor's magistrates regularly ask for suspension or postponement, provided that the perpetrator's profile so permits. The criminal record of the offender - which should not be too heavy - should be examined, in particular in order to ascertain whether he or she has not already benefited from such a favor. The assessment is therefore made on a case-by-case basis. It should be noted that in many cases a probationary period is a good alternative to a heavy fine or even a prison sentence, provided that the training can be started quickly after the conviction. As far as your fourth question is concerned, you seem to say that the police courts are becoming less and less inclined to provide training as a condition for a suspension or delay because that training is not to be paid for. That seems doubtful to me. The trend towards more or less probative training should be considered over a period of several years. With regard to your question about the desirability of making these courses pay, that is an interesting idea, but it should not be forgotten that in some cases the convicted person must bear all the costs of examinations. If the costs of probation training are added, it can be difficult for a suspect with little financial resources. Nevertheless, I would like to present this idea to my colleague from Mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u46	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I'm just like you, someone who has a high priority for road safety. It concerns all of us. We're not here yet. I think we all know that it will have to be a collection of measures that will ultimately lead us to more road safety, to fewer people injured and to deaths in traffic. Recidivism is indeed something that prevents people from being deterred sometimes too little by the present chance of being caught and the current measure of punishment. I am therefore pleased to read in the coalition agreement that people will be working on the chance of getting caught. The hearings that we have had on alcohol behind the wheel have also shown that in many cases the chances of being caught are too low and that work needs to be done on this. I believe that everyone in this committee and in the Mobility Committee is convinced of this. In addition, the driving licence with points is also a tool that I believe can provide targeted measures, but that too has been in the law for a long time. The coalition agreement now states that it will be implemented. I am very pleased to hear that you are also in line with the alternative penalties or at least want to examine them together with your colleague in Mobility. I will follow up on this in the future, but I am very pleased with your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u47	Minister, I refer to my written question. As you know, there is a separate language regime in the Brussels arrondissement, and we were talking about it two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u48	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, your question is an interesting one. She has already been mentioned a number of times. The subject also occasionally comes into the media. Your question is based on a feeling that judges in the arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde would be more willing to choose French as a language of procedure because French-speaking judges would be more lax than Dutch-speaking judges. You ask whether it would not be appropriate to have an audit conducted on the difference in case law in similar cases between French-speaking and Dutch-speaking investigative courts, criminal courts and police courts. First of all, it should be noted that the starting point is based on an impression and sense that there is some sort of instrumentalisation of the language of proceedings in order to obtain a less repressive criminal judgment, because it is pronounced by a French-speaking judge. It's a sense, but it's not objectified. It should also be borne in mind that every judge acts completely independently and, in all conscience, decides on the appropriate punishment to be imposed on every suspect, in accordance, of course, with the legal framework. This means that a Dutch-speaking criminal court does not necessarily have the same case law as another Dutch-speaking court of the same court. This also applies to the French-speaking side. Nor should we forget that the Court of Appeal and, where appropriate, the Court of Cassation guarantee a certain unity of justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u49	Mr Minister, my question was indeed prompted by the fact that we discussed it two weeks ago in connection with the question about the judicial district of Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde. That feeling is expressed by both Dutch and French-speaking magistrates. That is why it would indeed be interesting to begin to objectify that feeling. Hence my question as to whether you would ask the Supreme Court of Justice to at least consider whether it can object to that. I did not actually receive an answer from you. I hear, however, that you will not take that initiative unless I am mistaken. Then it remains difficult to prove it, even though both French and Dutch magistrates say so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u50	We now come to questions about the language in minutes for certain crimes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u51	Minister, I understand that you refer my question to the Home Office. I find that rather strange, because I have already asked such questions to the Minister of Justice before, and I believe that the language law still falls within your competence. However, if the Minister of the Interior is prepared to answer, I will ask her the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u52	We received the same question two weeks ago from Mr Pas, not with regard to Halle-Vilvoorde but with regard to Brussels. That was question No. 55009397C and we then referred it to the Home Office. If the Minister of the Interior doesn't want to answer, I will, but strictly speaking, it's about minutes, an instrument of the police. The legislation on the use of languages is actually a competence of the Minister of the Interior. If you don't get an answer there, I'll answer it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u53	Question No 55010165C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question. Question No 55010177C by Mrs Vanessa Matz is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u54	Madam President, Minister, in June 2004, Mr Trabelsi was finally sentenced to ten years' imprisonment by the Brussels Court of Appeal for attempting to commit a suicide attack on the Kleine-Brogel military base as a member of a terrorist criminal association. He served his sentence in Belgium. He was extradited to the United States, despite the ban of the European Court of Human Rights. The exequatur of the US arrest warrant was granted to the exclusion of acts declared against the acts carried out in Belgium in respect of which Mr Trabelsi had already been sentenced definitively. This limitation was confirmed by the Brussels Court of Appeal on 8 August 2019. However, on 13 November 2019, the Ministry of Justice sent a note to the US prosecution suggesting that the Court of Appeal's ruling would be legally incorrect, that the Minister of Justice could deviate from judicial decisions on extradition, and that there would therefore be no obstacle to Mr.Trabelsi being prosecuted and tried a second time for the attempt to attack Kleine-Brogel. My colleague Cogolati asked your predecessor about this in January 2020. He explained that he did not want to answer because an action was pending before the Brussels Court of First Instance. Since then, two new court decisions have sanctioned Belgium's attitude in February and May 2020, without an appropriate response. Mr Trabelsi is therefore in the process of being tried again for the acts of Kleine-Brogel, in clear violation of article 5 of the Belgian-American Convention on Extradition and the principle of non bis in idem, which is a cardinal principle of our criminal law. Minister, it is settled case law that decisions on exequatur in extradition are binding on the Minister of Justice, and the doctrine is unanimous. Can you confirm that you will take into account the judicial decisions taken in this case, in particular those of August 2019, February 2020 and May 2020? I am sorry to come up with this question, but if I may do so, it is good because your predecessor did not follow these decisions. Will you send a new diplomatic note confirming the restriction of Mr Trabelsi's extradition, as required by these decisions? What attitude do you intend to adopt with regard to the attitude of the executive precedent in this matter which involves the responsibility of Belgium, in particular if the acts have contributed to the commission of acts contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u55	Mrs Hugon, in reply to your first question, I can tell you that the judgment of 8 August 2019 – on the civil procedure in interim proceedings – and the judgment of 23 February 2020 – on the substantive procedure – were executed within the time limits provided for and in accordance with the arrangements. In both cases, the court's and court's findings were transmitted to the United States. On 8 August 2019, the Brussels Court of Appeal found a violation of the non bis in idem principle by rejecting the other defence applications. The Court ordered the Belgian State to communicate its findings to the United States authorities, under penalty, within a certain period of time. The Belgian State performed within the time limit prescribed on 9 August 2019. In the meantime, he brought an action for cassation against this judgment. The judgment of the Brussels Court of First Instance of 23 February 2020 was executed within the prescribed time limit. On 5 March, the Belgian State therefore notified the US authorities of the procedure for the judgment. The order of 28 May 2020 of the Civil Court of Brussels (chambre des seizures) concerns only the payment of the penalty imposed by the Court of Appeal in its judgment of 8 August 2019 – in our opinion, wrongly, because the judgment was executed in accordance with the device. The order was, moreover, the subject of an appeal by the Belgian State. In response to your second question, I would like to inform you that I am not going to address this note. In a judgment of 15 July 2020, the Brussels Court of Appeal rejected Mr Trabelsi's request for interim measures. This is a preliminary judgment in an appeal by the defence against the February 26 judgment you cited. One of the interim measures requested by the defence was to require the Belgian State to send a new diplomatic note. The Court of Appeal found applications for interim measures to be inadmissible and, at the very least, unfounded. In its reasoning, it considered: "In view of the legitimacy of the appellant's possible interest, it would at least be contrary, in particular, to procedural loyalty and the principle of the separation of powers to direct the Belgian State to issue a diplomatic note." In this procedure, the Court of Appeal still has to rule on the substantive motion and has set the timetable for the exchange of findings until 30 June 2021. The hearing is scheduled at a later date. In answer to your third question, I can tell you that the judgment of 4 September 2014 did not find a violation of the principle of non bis in idem. I refer to the Court, which concluded that, in any event, the Ministerial Order granting the extradition of the complainant explains that American law makes a clear distinction between the offences themselves, for which extradition is sought, and the acts declared, which are only supporting elements. The Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe also adopted a resolution on 6 December 2018 stating that the judgment of the Court had been executed. As mentioned above, the judgment of the Brussels Court of Appeal of 8 August 2019 has been executed and is the subject of an appeal in cassation. On the merits, the Court of Appeal has not yet decided the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answers. As you may know, I am not completely satisfied, but I thank you for having responded in detail. You referred to the decision of the seizing judge of May 2020. I would like to refer to point 24 of that decision, which states that the Belgian State has indeed enforced the order to transmit the judgment of the Court of Appeal to the United States authorities. However, it also mentions the comments that the Minister of Justice added to this transmission: "In so doing, the Belgian State has worked to annihilate the effect that the order of the Brussels Court of Appeal should normally have had on it, namely to remove any ambiguity as to the analysis of the law prevailing in Belgian law with regard to the possibility of judging Mr Trabelsi in the United States for the facts relating to the attempted attack at the Kleine-Brogel military base." I understand that there has been an appeal and I will follow closely the development of the case. For the moment, the seizing judge has confirmed that the penalty payment of 50 000 euros was due by the Belgian State. My question, therefore, was also intended to confirm the validity of the principle of non bis in idem, which nevertheless seems to apply to facts which have already been the subject of a judgment in our country. It seems to me that the opposite cannot be supported in our bilateral relations with the United States. I will remain attentive to the follow-up to this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u57	Madam President, Minister, in recent years I have repeatedly questioned your predecessor on a number of issues relating to Ladbrokes and the Gaming Commission. When the new government took office, a number of these matters remained unclear. I am therefore happy to present them to you now. Firstly, the European Commission has opened an in-depth investigation into, and I quote: 'the exclusive right to virtual gambling matches enjoyed by Ladbrokes in our country'. The Commission's investigation follows a complaint about unfair State aid from two competitors. As you know, the court in our country has previously held that, I quote again, the Gaming Commission has made every effort not to interfere with Ladbrokes for a long period of time." Surely that is a very tough play from the court to the role of the Gaming Commission at the time. Do you agree with the complaint lodged with the European Commission? Why is that? Why is that? How will the government react to this? What position will be taken? Second, on 25 May 2018, a procedure for the suspension and annulment of the Royal Decree of 4 May 2018 was submitted to the Council of State. An advocacy date would originally be set for the past summer recess. However, it is unclear what the status of this procedure is. What is the status of this procedure for the Council of State? Thirdly, the above mentioned KB refers to a protocol to be adopted by the Gaming Commission. The Gaming Commission would not want to issue this protocol until the Council of State has given a ruling on the application for annulment of that royal decree. In the meantime, Ladbrokes argues that until such time as that protocol has been adopted, it must not comply with the rules of the Royal Decree. Do you agree with the decision of the Gaming Commission not to issue a protocol? If so, why? Doesn't that create a legal gap, because the royal decree has still not been destroyed and still exists at the moment? If not, why not? How are you gonna make sure it gets there? Ladbrokes states that it should not comply with the rules of the Royal Decree, as long as that protocol is not there. Do you agree with that lecture? If so, why? What kind of regulation does it apply to virtual bets? If not, why not? Is the KB maintained, and how will that happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u58	Mr Van Hecke, it is primarily up to the European Commission to conduct the investigation in all objectivity and independence. I can tell you that the Gaming Commission will fully cooperate in that investigation. You also asked about the Council of State's date of advocacy. According to my information, it hasn't been recorded yet. As far as the protocol is concerned, the Gaming Commission will not wait for the decision of the Council of State to issue the protocol. The new Chairman and the Ad interim Director have made Class 4 of this Protocol a priority. On 1 July this year, the draft protocol was published on the website of the Gaming Commission and the operators were able to provide feedback until the end of August. In September, the secretariat analysed this feedback and then the draft protocol was submitted for advice to an independent international laboratory for certification of gaming equipment. This lab recently issued an opinion that is currently being analysed by the Gaming Commission. This Protocol is intended to be published before the end of the year. It should be clarified that the Protocol is a purely technical translation of the Royal Decree and that the absence of this Protocol cannot prevent the implementation of the Decision. The Royal Decree already contains sufficient measures to enforce the rules governing these games. For example, the rules governing the stakes, profits and the use of eID apply to such games of chance. The Royal Decree itself already provides for specific rules for virtual gambling. Indeed, the Royal Decree still provides for the adaptation of the existing Class 4 protocol as regards some technical specifications for the virtual events. It is therefore not the case that games of chance for virtual sporting events would not in the meantime be subject to technical rules. The judgment of the Brussels Appeal Court of 9 August 2019 also explicitly confirms this principle. There is today a series of strict controls on the application of the existing rules. If infringements are detected by any operator, the Gaming Commission will respond to them. On 19 September 2019, checks were organised at Ladbrokes. It was established that the maximum wager and the maximum profit were adapted to the provisions of the Royal Decree. Additional checks were carried out in March of this year. The necessary findings were made and infringements were detected by two different operators. In the meantime, operators have taken the necessary measures to re-use the aircraft in accordance with the provisions of the Royal Decree of 4 May 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u59	Minister, I am partially reassured about the protocol. It is important that the Gaming Commission does not wait for the outcome of the process for the Council of State and that it continues to work on the protocol, for which you have outlined the procedure. That is a good thing. I am also reassured that further checks are being carried out on Ladbrokes. It is important that the Gaming Commission continues to follow the matter closely. I understand that it may be delicate to take a position on the procedure for the European Commission. It seems logical to me that the Gaming Commission should cooperate fully. In any case, I look forward to the decision that the European Commission will take, because I have previously quoted a previous ruling from a Belgian court, it seems that some things have gone wrong in the past and there are indications that a firm has been favoured. We will await the decision of the European Commission, but at least there is work to be done on games of chance and their follow-up, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u60	Minister, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u61	Madam President, telework is currently a factual fact within the court for which there is no legal framework and is therefore subject to local organisation and insights within each jurisdiction. In the context of the health crisis, teleworking was forced to expand, taking steps to reduce the COOVID-19 pandemic and using telework as far as possible. For example, in a recent recommendation of 21 October, the College of Courts and Courts reiterated that working at home in all companies and associations is the rule for all staff whose duties are appropriate to the extent that continuity of service allows it. Apart from this recent evolution, however, the option has already been taken to integrate the possibility of regular teleworking into the status of legal staff in the context of the further modernisation of human resources policy. Therefore, in cooperation with the College of Courts and Courts, my administration has already prepared a draft royal decree on teleworking for staff of the services assisting the judiciary. In this process of approval, there is, of course, also a trade-union consultation. As for your question on digitisation, I visited the Antwerp Court yesterday and met a lot of people there. I visited, among other things, the people of the Antwerp Registry and found that two sympathetic staff who were present were unable to telework because they do not have a laptop. Your question is therefore very pertinent. In order to be able to work telework, the most important thing is to have a laptop. This is more and more the case for magistrates and clerks, but that is certainly not the case for everyone, which is why we will make serious efforts in the years to come to demonstrate this in our policy paper on investment in computer equipment. For administrative staff at levels C and D, who have a desktop by default, the possibilities are of course more limited today, so that further roll-out of laptops will be necessary. As far as your question on employment registration is concerned, practices vary within the jurisdictions. In order to provide a more detailed framework for the services, a draft working time regime was developed in cooperation with the College of Courts and Courts, which, as in several federal administrations, provides the option for the Management Committee to enter into a time registration or flat-rate compensation scheme. This arrangement should also now continue to be submitted to the trade-union consultations. This dossier is an opportunity for me to turn justice into a more attractive employer, an ambition that you naturally share.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u62	Minister, that is indeed an ambition that we share, and that was also the point I want to go to. At the moment, of course, teleworking is the norm, but we must of course be able to work telework and we know that the Justice Department is lagging behind in this respect. It is also important to make the work of the judiciary more attractive, because we note that it is very difficult at the moment to obtain job vacancies for both clerks and magistrates. So I look forward to seeing how that will evolve in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u63	I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u64	Mrs De Wit, you asked if there was a roadmap in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. We look at each situation separately and in the event of a shortage of staff, the operation of the facility is reorganised. It should also be stressed that the pandemic measures taken have already suspended several activities, which already offers a certain scope for dealing with necessary activities with fewer staff. For example, visits are allowed much less than usual, while other activities are not limited. However, should the staff be of such a nature that the minimum activity cannot be carried out, civil protection may be called upon to provide support. That happened today in the prison of Saint Gillis. Assistance from the police can only be provided if the staff are under the norm, in the context of the strike, which was committed several years ago. Where appropriate, police officers shall only be responsible for the security tasks. There was no need for that so far. In the prisons of Berkendael, Beveren, Dendermonde, Dinant, Oudenaarde, Paifve, Ruislede and Root no prisoners were tested positive until today. As far as staff are concerned, no staff member was tested positively only in Leuven's auxiliary prison. I'll give you the numbers. Since March 174 prisoners have been tested positively, of which 74 have since been cured and 14 have left prison. If I can count correctly, there are 86 more infected. Also since March, 257 staff were tested positively, of which 143 are still absent. At the beginning of the pandemic, a prisoner was transferred to AZ Sint Jan in Bruges, where he was not ventilated but was given respiratory support. Since yesterday, another inmate has been admitted to an external hospital. Most prisoners are asymptomatic; some have mild symptoms.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u65	Minister, I am pleased to hear that the situation is still fairly good in a number of prisons; let us keep it that way. In other institutions this is more difficult, not only for the prisoners, but also for the guards, because there must be quarantine or sick. I note that civil protection can provide support, if necessary. I hope that will succeed, because in the coming days and weeks many sectors of society will need help. The police, who are being used for enforcement, do not know what to do first. Hopefully it should not be used too often. Above all, let us keep our fingers crossed that the fireplaces are not getting bigger and that we can control the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u66	Madam President, Minister, during the previous legislature, a legislative proposal amending the external legal position was adopted. Mrs Van Cauter strongly supported the proposal at that time. The proposal was very specific, and it was really intended that the power to enforce penalties of less than three years would now lie with the criminal justice system. That has always been the intention of this legislation, but it has not yet been implemented. Implementation has been postponed. Where is the execution taking place today? Who's gonna take care of that today? You're actually doing that by means of a debriefing letter. Nor do I have to explain to you that in practice the penalties of less than three years are still dead letter. The amendment of the law would also effectively implement the penalties of less than three years, which we have been waiting for a long time. I remember that Mrs Van Cauter was also very firm on this point. A lick-on-piece policy, which you are now announcing, must ensure that smaller criminals do not become heavier criminals, because they find that there is impunity and there are no consequences for their actions. The amendment would enter into force on 1 October 2020. However, that date is already over. The entry into force was subsequently postponed to 1 January 2021. In the end, it moved even further forward until 1 April 2021. Mr. Secretary, please don't make it a April joke. I would like to avoid you having to ask Parliament again to postpone its entry into force. That is why I have the following questions. How are you getting on with your preparations? Do you believe that the date of 1 April 2021 at the latest will remain feasible or can it be faster? Has an overarching working group been set up in which all relevant levels of government are represented? Your predecessor, Mr Geens, had committed himself to this because, of course, it is necessary to prepare for the entry into force. Are there any buttons or bottlenecks that need to be cleared before entry into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u67	Madam President, Ms De Wit, the entry into force of that famous law was originally decided on 1 October 2020. This date was considered feasible at that time by all the actors concerned, but this assessment was brutally interrupted by the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, which also resulted in exceptional measures being taken in criminal execution with a significant impact on the entry and exit of detainees. Therefore, in order to ensure optimal preparation of the entry into force, it was decided with the relevant actors to move the entry into force until 1 April 2021. Meanwhile, we're in the middle of a second wave. A faster entry into force, as you cite in your question, seems illusory. The date of 1 April 2021 seems feasible to me at the moment, but it must of course be assessed in the light of the sanitary situation. You ask whether the overall working group has met. It did indeed meet through videoconference, given the exceptional measures. A number of issues related to the entry into force of the law, ICT adjustments, reform staff frameworks and impact on communities have already been discussed. The legal framework itself also appears to give rise to problems which make practical implementation difficult. I am referring here, among other things, to the possibility of applying for sanctions on grounds of freedom. Preparations for entry into force should be monitored on a permanent basis, taking into account the multitude of actors involved and the many issues that need to be taken into account in different areas. I also intend to continue the appreciated commitment of my predecessor and to take rapid steps to enable the multidisciplinary working group to continue its work and to find solutions to the problems that arise, both for the implementation of the law and for the formulation of proposals for optimisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm glad you're continuing the engagements. I'm delighted to hear that. That is something that both your party and mine have called for in the previous legislature. I hope you make it. Do not let the crisis stop the preparations. I think it is necessary to find a solution to this. As I said earlier, it would be nice if this could enter into force on 1 April. It could do something about impunity if we could implement the lick-on-piece policy, which you also mention in the government statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u69	Madam President, Minister, I had already asked your predecessor about Hussein Ablu Abla's presence in Belgium? One of the leaders of the National Defence Forces (formerly Shabiha), a Syrian paramilitary group organized by the regime of Bashar al-Assad and Iran, involved in several war crimes, notably in Salamiyeh. On 24 October, the newspaper De Morgen confirmed the presence of this individual in Belgium since 2016.The article even spoke of several testimonies that were really cold on his back about the participation of this individual in several war crimes in Syria. On 13 October, the Syrian Observer published another article about another Syrian individual, Youssef Saleh Khalaf, who allegedly participated in the massacre in Homs in 2012 and is now also a refugee in Belgium. Is the Public Prosecutor's Office aware of information published by the press about the presence of Syrian war criminals in our territory? It seems vital to me that Belgium should be able to investigate and prosecute war crimes, which constitute violations of international law and its peremptive names. As such, it is logical that Belgium should be able to investigate these very serious crimes. Moreover, these individuals would continue to monitor (as informants) and threaten other Syrian refugees present in our territory, on behalf of the intelligence services of the Bashar al-Assad regime, among others? How do our intelligence services respond and monitor these individuals to protect the physical integrity of our nationals and refugees on our territory? How many complaints have been lodged about them so far in Belgium? Is Belgian justice actively investigating them?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u70	Madam President, Minister, I refer to my extensive written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u71	Madam President, Minister, Mr Cogolati is right. According to the newspaper, a recognised refugee named Hossin A. has been living in our country for years, who was the leader of a terrorist-sorting Syrian militia. We, as well as his compatriots, fear for our safety here. Belgium should be able to bring him to justice or to prove him. Hossin A. was part of the so-called shabiha in Syria and had a leading role in the Syrian city of Salamiyah. He is also responsible for violence against demonstrators, numerous disappearances and an overall reign of terror, which he allowed to blow into this city. He is considered one of the most prominent criminals in Salamiyah. This person is therefore in Belgium. He is associated with those gross crimes of the level of war crimes and crimes against humanity. At the Belgian Foreign Affairs Office, the security services and the prosecutors' offices, no one seems to be aware of the suspicions of this war criminal. A number of witnesses confirm this and are prepared to speak to the Justice Department. Are you aware of this? If so, is there a criminal investigation into this man? If no, will you start a criminal investigation? Will witnesses be heard, whether or not in the context of a criminal investigation? Are you prepared to seek information about this man from your foreign colleagues in the Justice Department?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u72	Madam President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Public Prosecutor's Office has taken note of the various information published in the press in recent months about the presence in Belgium of persons considered to be Syrian war criminals. With regard to the possibility of prosecution in Belgium, several connecting criteria referred to in articles 6 and 10 of the Preliminary Title of the Code of Criminal Procedure grant Belgian judicial authorities jurisdiction to try serious violations of international humanitarian law committed outside the territory of the Kingdom. These include war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. The first criterion is the so-called active personality principle and concerns the suspect. According to Article 6, 1a of the preceding Title of the Code of Criminal Procedure, any Belgian or any person who has his principal place of residence in Belgium may be prosecuted for such offences. The second criterion called "passive personal competence" concerns the alleged victim of these facts. According to Article 10 of the Preliminary Title of the Code of Criminal Procedure, proceedings may be instituted in Belgium for serious violations of international humanitarian law when they have been committed against a person who, at the time of the act, was a Belgian national or a recognized refugee habitually resident in Belgium or a person who, for at least three years, has actually, usually, resided legally in Belgium. In the context of this criterion of passive personal jurisdiction, proceedings may be instituted only at the request of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, which shall assess, possibly under the supervision of the Indictments Chamber, the basis and admissibility of the complaint and the correct characterization of the facts. According to Article 144c of the Civil Code, the federal court has exclusive jurisdiction for the criminal proceedings in such cases. The federal prosecutor can initiate criminal proceedings on various grounds, for example on the basis of a victim's complaint, a witness's complaint, an international arrest warrant or other a priori credible information including press articles. The Federal Public Prosecutor's Office also opens cases on the basis of the denunciations of the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons when the latter takes a decision to refuse refugee status against a person on the basis of Article 1F of the Geneva Convention. This article provides for the exclusion of refugee status where there are substantial grounds for believing that the refugee candidate has committed a crime under international humanitarian law. To date, no complaints have been filed against the individuals reported in the press. Victims or witnesses can, of course, make themselves known to a police service or the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office if they wish their testimony to be taken into account. The federal court cannot at this stage rule on current cases. However, any information that is a priori credible is checked in the context of the judicial investigation, which may lead to the investigation of the case depending on the information collected. With regard to the number of staff available to deal with cases of international humanitarian law, there is a capacity problem, both in the federal prosecutor's office and in the police services. These are complex and sensitive dossiers, which require research or preparatory work abroad in particular. The department in charge of these files at the federal prosecutor's office consists of four magistrates, including the department chief who is also Deputy Federal Prosecutor. The magistrates are assisted by a lawyer. The department also deals with other matters other than matters of international humanitarian law. These are cases of sea-sailing, international corruption in the European Union and cases of offences committed by Belgian military abroad. The files of international humanitarian law therefore represent only part of the section's working time. At police level, the vast majority of the files are entrusted to a specialised department of the seven research departments of the FGP in Brussels. That department of International Humanitarian Law consists of seven researchers, including the head of the department. A capacity problem must also be reported at the headquarters level. On the one hand, there are no investigating judges specifically assigned to cases relating to international humanitarian law, although it should be pointed out that the vast majority of such cases which are being investigated are dealt with by three investigating judges of the Brussels Court of First Instance. However, they also deal with ordinary law cases. On the other hand, in the case of proceedings before the Court of Assizes, the sessions often last for several weeks or months, causing problems in the organization of the hearings and in the availability of the magistrate of the seat. This lack of capacity should not, however, lead to minimizing the work done. With regard to questions relating to statistics on international humanitarian law cases classified or under way in Belgium, it is recalled that this specific information is not given in response to oral questions. However, it may be noted that the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and the Federal Police are currently dealing with just over 100 pending cases. Several cases of serious violations of international humanitarian law have also led to prosecutions in recent years. In 2017, an investigation was finalized against a person suspected of an international humanitarian crime committed in Sierra Leone, but the case was closed following the death of the accused by suicide in prison. In 2018, four people were referred to the Assize Court for charges of genocide and war crimes. In December 2019, one of those suspects was sentenced by the Court of Assistes in Brussels to 25 years in prison for genocide and war crimes. Two other trials, concerning three other suspects, for which the date should be set at the court of assists probably waited already in 2019. With regard to Mr Cogolati's more specific questions, I can tell you that the State Security is aware that some nationals of foreign powers are engaged in intelligence activities in the service of these regimes. This also applies to Syrian nationals. With regard to the individual cases referred to in the article, the State Security cannot, as always, confirm or invalidate whether they are the subject of an ongoing investigation. With regard to the question of how the Belgian intelligence services protect civilians who are reportedly threatened in Belgium, I can tell you that the State Security collects information on threats, as described in the 1998 Act. Where information gathered in this context points to the existence of potentially concrete threats against persons, this information is always shared with the police and judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u74	Minister, thank you for this particularly long and comprehensive answer. It is indeed important to state that Belgium is not only competent in its Judicial Code for these crimes under international law, but also has a certain duty to prosecute the most serious crimes under international humanitarian law. I believe that it was Germany that initiated this type of prosecution in the judicial system of Koblenz. I really believe that our Belgian judicial system must also, at some point, send a very strong signal to the international community, saying: "We cannot serve as a refuge for the worst Syrian war criminals who have actively participated in the persecutions of the Bashar al-Assad regime." Mr Minister, I therefore welcome your response and the work of the State Security Service and the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. They must be able to take control of this kind of war criminals who could end up in nature within the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u75	Minister, I have not received any answers to some of my questions, but I understand that these were not so obvious. I asked, among other things, whether you know how many Syrians who were on the side of Assad in militias or the army live at least in our country, but also whether we can somehow proactively look for witnesses, with guarantees of their safety, and prepare a trial, as in Germany. I have also asked you in particular for statistics on cases of international humanitarian law relating to Syria and Iraq, just because I understand that there would be very little of them. I didn't hear you say that either. I also asked whether there have been situations such as the one in De Morgen's article through the Kucam system. In particular, I asked whether there were similar cases among the persons who could come to Belgium via the Kucam system. You have not yet answered those questions. Is that because that information isn't available yet? Does it make sense for me to repeat my question so that you have a little more time to have that checked?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u76	Madam President, Minister, I have the same comment as Mr Segers. I feel like reposing my questions, although it will be very tiring. You have answered very comprehensively the questions of your coalition partner, Mr Cogolati. I was talking very specifically about Hossin A's case. My decision in the case of Hossin A. is that it is a very clear answer to the question of the return lobby, which very much wants to bring the people from Syria back here, because we could supposedly better control them here. We know, however, that this is not the case. The case in question shows that again. We don't know everything and we can't follow everything. Our security services have absolutely no means of doing this. That's not their fault at all. You've been in office for a few weeks now. I particularly like you as a person and have faith in you in your capacity as Minister. However, I would like to ask you to answer our questions pertinently. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u77	Madam President, Minister, the additional information requested by Mr Segers is certainly necessary to obtain. I also understand the cases. Mr Metsu also pointed out that not everything could be checked. The security services can't keep an eye on everything. However, we do not want that answer. There must be more resources for this. Citizens must feel safe here. We have also begun our discourse by pointing out that the person concerned has been here for years. People feel unsafe. The answer that cannot be checked is therefore not the answer for which we were elected and which we can give to the citizens in the street. It will therefore have to be worked on.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u78	Madam President, Mr Segers, I will verify this. To the extent that I can give specific answers, I will also deliver them to you and to all the other members of the committee. So I apologize for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u79	Thank you, Minister, for the supplement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u80	Madam President, Minister, I am sorry that I cannot physically meet you here. You're in the neighborhood, in Brussels. I thought ministers were physically present because this is always the case in Home Affairs and Defence, but apparently there is a directive that you can remain safe and sound in your cabinet. I regret that, but apparently that is how it is agreed. I think the physical encounter is more interesting than the digital encounter. You've been working on digitization for years. I have also had the opportunity to deal with administrative simplification and the digitisation of the government. That is certainly important, and you have been more successful in this than I have. I've been working on other things. You had the Kafka meter, which I thought was a fantastic initiative. You hung it out to your cabinet. I was a successor to that cabinet. We can talk for hours, but that's not what this is about. My question is whether it would be possible to speak physically after all. I think this is better if we are to have a political exchange of views. Anyway, it's what it is, it's special times. Personally, I wish you every success in your mandate. This is a very important portfolio. I hope that you will try to deal with the Justice Department, which is probably the hardest thing to do in this country, together with the Department of Asylum and Migration. I know your energy and your drive, which I also have. We will have many exchanges of views, and I wish you every success. With Mr Geens we had a very strong Minister of Justice and I hope you can be too. I have one question for you, Minister. Last week, you responded rather fiercely to a question from Koen Metsu. You wanted to make a statement. I expected that statement from the Prime Minister. I saw the President of the Chamber make a statement about Samuel Paty's decapitation and I expected the government to make a statement as well. Apparently that wasn't a good deal, so it seemed a little amateurish. I protested against it, without asking for the micro, and then the Prime Minister finally made a brief statement on dehumanisation. It was not quite clear to me what he meant, but that statement was made. However, he did not want to answer the questions that were put to him and wanted them answered by the trade ministers, including you and Mrs Verlinden. You were well prepared and you made a firm statement. You wanted, a little Macronally, to make a statement against extremism as well. As is happening nowadays via the social media, in which I am also well known, that was streamed almost live on the Open Vld-page. The subtitles were quite strong, in direct terms. I've been there, too, with the Prime Minister's kindergarten incident. 15 minutes later, it was online. I was the big toddler who couldn't read the budget, but that was something else. That's not what this is about. In any case, I read that you said that extremists do not belong in Belgium and that you would arrest them, prosecute them and expel them. I hope we're indeed going to arrest them and prosecute them, we'll see about that. The penalty of up to 5 years for many Syrian fighters is a joke, and you have already made statements about this before. You said it was painful that they could not be punished more severely because the evidence is so difficult. However, if you are talking about deporting people, I am particularly interested because I know some of them. After all, I have spent many years working day and night trying to expel extremists from the country. Sometimes they did, but in other cases they didn't. I had some informational questions earlier, namely how many prisoners you released and how many illegals were there. How many extremists have you released in the last year and how many have you sent back? I will put those questions in writing because your cabinet has informed me that you think they should be written questions. You are right, moreover, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. However, I wanted to keep my essential question, namely how you will expel extremists from every possible battle and genre. That is something I am particularly interested in.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u81	Madam President, Mr Francken, I meet you physically once in a while, but you understand that this is now a little more difficult for the sake of corona. I have heard from the chairman of the committee that, under the Rules of Procedure, we can also discuss at a distance in these circumstances. However, the fieryness of the debate does not have to suffer, don't worry. I would also like to thank you for your congratulations and I am very aware that this is a very difficult department. However, there are also opportunities and I meet a lot of talent within Justice, also driven magistrates. With the extra resources we're going to get, a lot of things will be possible. Mr Francken, I have indeed given you a strong answer, and I hope you would have expected it. We must stand shoulder to shoulder with France. That should not be the subject of any discussion. I've spoken very clearly. I repeat my words: 'We are going to prosecute, condemn and expel people who are coming to sow terror in our country'. You're just a little bit pecked by that last thing, like I can't say. I find it strange that you say this, because you yourself have always made such statements. One can then ask whether I can make that happen and whether I will also realize it. Well, the expulsion of convicted terrorists is based on foreign law. For this purpose, the DVZ can use information from, among other things, the common database established in the meantime, which includes foreign terrorist fighters. With the law of February 24, 2017 you know that law we have made expulsions easier. People who are in our country and threaten our public order and national security can be deported. Anyone from outside who has been convicted of terrorism and has come here to sow terror naturally meets the conditions. You also refer to Article 3 of the ECHR and ask if I can make that happen, but I would like to point out that the law that you have created and which we have supported has been challenged before the Constitutional Court by a number of NGOs and that, fortunately, that law is currently in force, subject to some of the elements that remain before the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg. In other words, that consideration has been made, but of course, like you and all other political colleagues, I have to abide by the European human rights treaties and I have no doubt that you will do so, as I will do, together with the entire government. However, the ambition must be to tackle and deactivate those people who come here to spread terror. If I can't say that anymore, I don't quite understand what you've been doing over the past few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u82	Minister, I fully agree that we must send a clear and clear signal to support President Macron and the French people in that particularly serious incident, in which a teacher's beheading is an attempt to kill the essence of us as Westerners and the free West. Minister, I will always give and offer that shoulder. Let there be no doubt about that. I don't really do anything else. It is also one of my great passions, which makes me rise up every day. After all, we must fight much harder for the free West and for the values we stand and go for. We must also be able to pass this on to our young people in a healthy and not extremist way. That's what I'm really working on. It's also the core of a part of my drive. However, that is not the point at all. It's about the fact that the praxis is between dream and deed. It's about you throwing up that you shouldn't be able to explain some of my stuff. In particular, I would like to inform you that, if you explain this, there will be consequences. If you want to expel someone from the country, it will mean that I will ask you to prove how you will do it. After all, the praxis stands between dream and deed. The daily praxis teaches me, among other things, that Mrs De Block has been released, among other things, the black widow. I picked them up. She's been locked up for months in a closed center for illegals. This is a very serious terrorist, one of the toughest we have ever known on Belgian territory. We were supposed to remove her. Her nationality has been revoked by a Belgian court. I have withdrawn her right of residence in my capacity as Secretary of State. She went back to Morocco. But Mrs. De Block didn't do anything about the file. Mr. Secretary, that's the praxis under an Open Vld Minister. Then there is also the fact that Friday fell on a cold stone. The agreement with Morocco, to which Mr Jambon, I, Mr Reynders and Mr Michel have worked so hard in the Swedish Government, with the MOU on return policy and electronic exchange of fingerprints, was unilaterally denounced by Morocco in January of this year. I fell off my chair when I heard that. Mrs De Block has not taken any initiative to at least enter into diplomatic consultations and ask why, whether we can still remedy it. From the middle of last year to January, signals came to the administration. That didn't happen. In that sense I am very critical and indeed a bit emotional. Four years I worked hard in that Swedish team on that policy to be stricter, among other things, with new legislation. The whole NGO world said it was going to be destroyed, that it was going to be chopped up. It passed the test before the Constitutional Court. That legislation was referred to as Francken's deportation law. We did that and continued to do so with the Swedes. We made it. Because of circumstances, we are no longer in that government. We can talk a lot about that. When I see that people are going back to the country for a long time now, I am indeed disturbed by a Minister of Justice of the same party who says that he is going to expel them and that he is going to tackle the extremists hard. Then I think that the policy I wanted to draw up is being dishonored. That is what I mean by that, Minister. I'm going to file those questions in writing. I'm also gonna follow up on what you do with it all the time. I find that particularly interesting. I have also addressed the same questions to Mr Mahdi with regard to the illegals. You are mainly concerned with the people in the prisons and the convicts. I am also interested in the people without a right of residence, and that is with Asylum and Migration. I hope that you will be able to deliver on what you promised in plenary. I'm not just looking at you. This isn't a political game for me. President Macron has announced that he will deport 232 radicalised illegals in the coming months. I don't believe any of that. I've already had a big debate with Sammy Mahdi on Article 3. I hope you can address him for the next few hours and days, because he has to answer Friday. He refuses to answer the journalists' questions about the condemnation that Belgium received yesterday at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. The European Court has said that we should not have removed these Sudanese people. That's total bullshit. I can get you more information. I hope we will appeal, because this is about difficult removals, this is about the Article 3 procedure. This is what you will experience with every terrorist or every radicalized terrorist in the next few years. I'm just warning you, I've been through four years of how hard that is. Appeal, protest, go to the Grand Chamber of the Court in Strasbourg to make your point. We'll make it. Spain has made it, we have made it in the past. You've got to get that. I can only hope that we can continue to pursue this return policy, especially with regard to difficult profiles, such as radicalised aliens, as we have done with Swedish government. We've done groundbreaking work. You know that, Minister. I've always had your support. We've been on the phone regularly, including from your position as mayor. We've always done our best. You know how difficult and frustrating it is sometimes on the premises. I call on you, together with Mr Mahdi, to see how you can maintain that line and how you can continue to achieve the results we have achieved with the Swedish Government over the coming months and years. I'll keep you at your word.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u83	Madam President, I had also asked this question in the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs, to Mr Mahdi. He referred me to you for the answers to this question. I was talking about an incident in the Kempen on the night of July 13th to 14th in which nearly 40 cars were damaged in Turnhout. According to the newspapers, the unsub was identified the next day. It turned out to be a 27-year-old illegally from Tunisia. The police had it recorded that the man had been arrested and that he had also been ordered to leave the territory. When reading the newspaper, there were some questions. Who should compensate for the damage if an illegal damage is caused to private property? In what way? You may not be able to say this about this individual case, but perhaps in a broader context. How exactly is that dealt with? In such a case, do you always make every effort to ensure that the illegal person in question has to pay for the damage and in any way? Will the court do its job, if repatriation cannot or cannot be carried out, so that the illegal person in question is punished anyway? I do not know whether you can say that in this particular case, but perhaps in a broader context. What steps has the court taken in this particular case to correct and adequately punish the illegality in question for the serious damage it has caused? Can you confirm that this person has also been deported?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u84	Miss Van Camp, you know I can't go into an individual file, but in dealing with the damage, no distinction is made between someone who has the right to stay and someone who doesn't. That distinction is not in any of our laws, so that damage must be compensated. There's a criminal investigation going on right now. If a prison sentence is pronounced, it will have to be carried out. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u85	Minister, I am pleased that you say that the damage will have to be compensated anyway, but I do wonder how that happens in such cases. Most of them are people who are not capital-intensive. It is also a pity that you cannot go into the case in question or simply say in a general context that there is no place for such people, who have no right of residence and who are staying illegally here. Moreover, they have damaged almost 40 cars and I would have expected you and Secretary of State Mahdi to send a more severe signal that you strongly condemn such practices and do everything possible to remove such illegals, with priority being given to criminal illegals. Your colleague, Mr Mahdi, has already pointed out that this is not a priority for him, which is a pity. I would have expected that from you. We will certainly follow up the figures on this. We differ fundamentally on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u86	Madam President, Minister, we learn that a new femicide was committed this Saturday, October 24, in Molenbeek. Salwa was stabbed by her ex-husband. It turns out that this lady had repeatedly reported that she was threatened with death. The police then stated that voice messages were not sufficient evidence. Salwa had changed her phone number three times as a result of harassment. She lived in fear. His aunt had met the person responsible for the events who had told him that he would one day come and stab her "to show him who the man is". Every femicide is a femicide of too many. The victim's family and all women have the right to know why, despite several complaints, this new femicide could not be prevented. Minister, how many reports of complaints of violence against women have been received by the Public Prosecutor's Office in the last three months? How many removal orders were issued during this period? Is there an increase in removal measures issued in 2020 compared to 2019? At the beginning of the confinement, the Brussels-North police zone had decided to proactively call all the women who had filed complaints to see how they were doing. At the regional level, it had been promised that this good practice would become rigorous in all areas. Has the Prosecutor's Office received any new minutes as a result of this initiative? Has this led to the collection of new information on the situation of women at risk? Are the services providing assistance to victims of violence informed of each complaint? How is communication between these services, the police and the prosecutor's office going? The Vivaldi Declaration mentions new investments for justice. What part of the Justice budget will be used to respond to the imperatives of rapid intervention, protection and prevention of violence against women?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u87	Minister, like my colleague, I wanted to go back to the tragedy that took place this weekend in Molenbeek, where a woman was stabbed on the street before she died of her wounds. Named Salwa, however, this woman had repeatedly reported that she was threatened with death. The suspect, his ex-husband, was placed under arrest. This femicide, which could and should have been avoided, recalls others, especially Louise's: in 2017, this student was stabbed and killed by her neighbour, despite several harassment complaints. Last week, the Liège Public Prosecutor's Office charged three police officers with manslaughter in default of foresight or precaution, since the man against whom the young woman had filed a complaint had already been convicted of rape. He was even on parole at that time. These femicides follow one another, and each time they are the same incomprehension among the victims' relatives and the population. Finally, there seems to be a political will to respond to this scourge, including through the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Women's Rights, which has been mobilizing against such violence for almost a year. Similarly, on 11 June Parliament voted on our motion for a resolution calling on Justice and the police to generalize good practices in this area. Finally, your government agreement intends to make the fight against gender violence a priority, but in fact nothing changes. Minister, are you in favour of the inclusion of femicide in the Criminal Code or the creation of specialized courts as is the case in Spain? Do you consider that this would be part of the effort to identify femicides called for by the Istanbul Convention, which Belgium has ratified? What are the conclusions of the working group on the continuation component of the Interdepartmental Conference that you are leading, and which should have been presented this Wednesday at this same Interdepartmental Conference? Do you consult with your internal counterpart regarding the receipt of complaints at police stations? Your working group does, in particular, deal with all matters relating to the reception of victims of violence and the basic training of judges and police on gender violence. Can the recent indictment of the three police officers in the case of Louise's femicide be seen as the realization of a more serious attention now paid by all prosecutors to violence against women? Finally, has Committee P ever considered cases of police negligence that do not take complaints of violence and/or harassment sufficiently seriously? If so, on what occasions and, above all, with what conclusions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u88	Madam President, Mr Boukili, for the time being, I am not in a position to give you the information you are asking for because I do not have it. However, foreseeing that in the future computer systems will be designed in such a way that such a breakdown of data is possible is a point of action for me. This is also a point that I am defending in the Interministerial Conference on Women's Rights. With regard to your question on victim services, I can state that Circular COL 4, which determines the criminal policy to combat violence in the couple, provides for systematic referral to the victim service in all cases of making available to the prosecutor's office of the suspect and in all cases of investigation. In other cases, this approach is left to the judge's discretion in the circumstances and communication with the service takes place according to local circumstances and specificities. We are now allocating the additional budgets referred to in the government agreement and, of course, we are going to invest in the fight against sexual violence, which will be a priority. I am referring to my policy statement which I will normally present to your committee on 10 November 2020. Mrs Rohonyi, with regard to your question on femicides, I would like to point out that the government agreement clearly provides for the establishment of a working group to examine how the inclusion of femicide as a crime in the Criminal Code could contribute to solving the problem. On the basis of this opinion, we will assess the appropriateness of this. With regard to your question on the Prosecution Working Group, I can inform you that my predecessor has already carried out important studies. We wish to continue in this direction, but also to take a number of initiatives ourselves. In this context, what is important is the new COL 15 circular of the College of Attorneys General to generalize the use of a front-line risk assessment tool on partner violence at the level of the police and prosecutors' offices. This new tool will enter into force on 1 January and aims precisely to better identify facts which may seem less serious at first sight but which, once put in context, reveal a risk of transition to the major act. The period prior to the entry into force of this COL is used to train the actors in the field in the use of this tool, in particular through a bilingual videoconference accessible to all magistrates and police officers in the country. This training is scheduled for tomorrow, 29 October. As far as questions relating to individual files are concerned, you will understand that it is not up to me to provide information on an individual file in progress. I can only confirm that the three policemen are the subject of a dismissal order from the prosecution in the case concerning the young Louise you have spoken about. Finally, with respect to the matter of complaints to Committee P, I must refer you back to the Speaker of the House, since this service depends on the federal Parliament, as you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u89	Thank you for your answers, minister, but as you said yourself, you did not answer some of my questions. I will introduce them in the form of written questions, hoping that your services will be able to provide us with these figures. I think it would be important to have them. It is clear that the measures in place today are insufficient to deal with the situation. Indeed, femicides are still being committed and the number of cases of aggression is still increasing. This can't go on! Today, in the 21st century, in our country, we cannot die because we are a woman. That's not acceptable. We have to do something. This issue must be taken seriously. As I have just said, I will table the various questions that I have asked you here in the form of written questions and ask your services to provide me with these answers. We need to know what is happening in our departments in the face of this situation, which must be stopped.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u90	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answers – I must admit. As far as the victim reception and assistance service is concerned, the victim must be immediately seized when the police stations have access to it. In fact, I myself will also ask you a written question as to whether all police areas have this service. I see that, when I talk to the victims' associations, this does not seem to be the case. With regard to the inclusion of femicides in the Criminal Code, I understand that a working group has been set up. I think that's a good thing. Indeed, I understand that you are much less categorical and closed on the issue than was, for example, your predecessor, Mr. Geens. As regards the reception of victims in police stations, you therefore chair this working group in the Interministerial Conference on Women's Rights. I really expect more concrete commitments in relation to this. I am still on my hunger with regard to this more specific point. For the rest, I am pleased to see that you are aware of this problem. This violence against women is a structural problem, requiring strong measures ranging from the filing of the complaint to the trial and execution of the sentence. It is throughout this chain that we must work. But, as my colleague has said, I am also concerned, despite everything, especially as we are moving towards containment, which by definition is a time for domestic violence in particular, either to make them appear or to make them even worse. The risk of femicide, which is already very present in our society, will increase significantly in the coming weeks. It is for these reasons that I invite you to redouble your efforts, because working groups are very good, but concrete actions are better. There's an emergency, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u91	Minister, my questions are in line with the questions I addressed to the Prime Minister in plenary last Thursday, but he had referred them to you. You replied. The question was what are we going to do about the horrific murder of Samuel Paty? There was a reference to what the Swedish Government has already initiated. I would like to thank you for demonstrating that commitment once again. I wanted to question the Prime Minister again this morning, but those questions were also referred to another committee. I shouldn't bother you with that. I will put that question to the Prime Minister himself at the appropriate time. Following the horrific murder of Samuel Paty, President Macron announced severe measures. Two hundred illegal criminals will be deported and 51 dubious non-profit organisations and associations will be dissolved. He also has the social media check who has made statements of support and they too may be prosecuted. This is not yet being discussed in our country. I endorse what you said last Thursday: 'The French struggle is also our struggle. We stand shoulder to shoulder." We are also part of your shoulder in that area. Minister, I really want to ask the Prime Minister about the vision of President Macron's approach. You can answer it if you want. Will you implement the same measures in our country? Will you take action to prohibit or prosecute Belgian Islamic organisations inciting hatred, violence or discrimination? Are these organisations also being mapped out? What ad hoc actions will you take? How do you plan to map them and at what time? Why wouldn't you do this if you did? Do you know of any support for this act of terror on social media in our country? Will this issue also be investigated and those who place such statements of support and hate messages on social media will be prosecuted? I myself am very much in favour of freedom or speech, but if one encourages hatred and the glorification of acts of terror, then, as far as I am concerned, the border has really been crossed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u92	Mr Metsu, I am pleased that you welcome the answer I gave in plenary. I have just heard your colleague, Mr Francken, who felt that I should not have said that. I suggest you tell each other what the right response is. I believe that we should be shoulder-to-shoulder with France, and there should be no ambiguity about that. After all, this is about preserving our Western values and freedoms. I know that you have always been very consistent in the past. The recent attacks in France show that the fight against terrorism and extremism is still very topical. We must also show that calls for hatred and violence are not gratuitous, that they do not belong to freedom of expression and that they can have serious consequences. We must therefore continue to pursue a policy that detects and tackles hate propaganda. I believe that we have come a long way in this area in recent years. I refer once again to the common database, which is managed by the OCAD and which includes all known extremists and terrorists. That list will be followed closely and will also have serious consequences for the people concerned. All services that are closely or remotely involved in the fight against terrorism and extremism have access to and feed the database. In addition to the name of the terrorists, the database includes hate propagandaists and potentially violent extremists. Names can be presented from both bottom-up, from the local task forces, and top-down, from the central services. Our aim is to pick up signs of extremism as soon as possible and to take action against extremists who call for hatred and violence. If there is an acute threat, a repressive and disruptive approach will of course be central, driven by the police, the police or the intelligence services. If there is serious evidence that terrorist activities are taking place, the mayor may, of course, also close those facilities. I refer to Article 134f of the new municipal law. It is important that measures are always taken that are tailor-made as much as possible, tailored to the threat that each individual or group represents. These include measures that are more social, supportive or creative at the level of the local integrated safety cells. You know that, as mayor. Our policy goes beyond purely repressive and relies on active cooperation with the Regions, the Communities, cities and municipalities and civil society. In other words, it is a multiagency approach at all levels of government. So we have systems in our country that allow us to intervene against hate propagandaists, from whatever angle they come from, and from soft union they belong. I know that it was a form of extremism in France, which I, of course, condemn, but you know that there are other forms of extremism in our country as well. In fact, we are seeing them more and more, the visu. Like you, of course, we will not distinguish between the forms of extremism. That's obvious. It is true that many of the perpetrators are radicalising online, via the Internet and social media. While a lot of efforts are being made to reduce and track extremist content online, those propagandists of course continue to seek new ways to spread their message. It is therefore permanent adaptation and investment to ensure that we can tackle those forms of extremism. That does not, of course, mean that there would be impunity for online hate propagandaists. With the regularity of the clock, hate propagandaists who are active online are persecuted in our country. This has already led to multiple convictions. Any hate reactions or calls for violence via social media are closely monitored after the recent attack in France. You will understand that I cannot deal specifically with the cases, given the recovery capacity that we need in the investigation, but it is clear that we are very alert and vigilant, as I said to you in plenary last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u93	Thank you very much, Minister, for this is a satisfactory answer. I think you can say that you repeat the measures taken by the Swedish Government at the time. That's nothing new. Please continue, but let us also evolve, because the opponent is also evolving from whatever extremist camp he comes from. As far as your comment on Mr Francken is concerned, we are saying exactly the same thing. We condemn violent extremism which incites hatred and terror. That is why we are both in favour of what Mr Macron has said and of the initiatives he is taking now. I shouldn't tell you that, because I'm sure you're at home there, too. I would simply like to conclude with the fact that I have heard a very positive response from you. I sincerely hope that you will be able to convince everyone of this and that we can continue on this path. As you yourself have said, freedom of speech is very important, but when it triggers hatred and violence, let alone terror, we must be very bold about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u94	Mr President, I would like to refer to the question put in writing. 550010368C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u95	Madam President, Mr Segers, I will now be able to give you a full answer. The Royal Decree of 2016 fixing the rate of performance of translators and interpreters in criminal matters provides for an article that, when two interpreters use an interpreter's suitcase for a daily performance of two interpreters, the hourly performance of the interpreters is increased by 65%. It is therefore not right that there should be no compensation for this. During that period, however, large processes were organised with multiple persons and at least one foreign language on top of the procedural language. It is true that there are few such processes that allow such techniques to be used frequently. So it is true that few interpreters have invested in this. In the COVID-19 period we are now undergoing, it is difficult to guarantee social distancing in the courts for interpreters and clients without interfering in the course of justice. Distance requires a louder intervention which, especially with multiple interpreters for multiple parties, makes the progress of debates and interrogation more difficult. An interpreter's case simply allows the interpreter to perform a high-quality intervention at a distance in silence. That's why interpreters' suitcases were rented. An evaluation has certainly confirmed the positive effect. The courts that promoted and maintained the instrument, such as disinfection and battery charging, are unanimously positive about it. The rented sets comprised twenty headphones, which were not fully used, as on average only four to five people used them. In addition, we note that the instrument is certainly not yet in place. Several courts did not offer the instrument and parties still choose an individual interpreter. Many alternatives to guarantee social distancing are not available. The use of a plastic screen between interpreter and client or an existing professional interpretation booth in the courtroom are not real alternatives, as the screen prevents comprehensibility and professional installations in the courtrooms do not exist. In the current exceptional situation, therefore, we must call on the interpreters' suitcases. At the evaluation meeting of 15 September 2020, in the presence of several professional associations and the colleges of headquarters and prosecutors, the choice was made to promote the whisper sets among the professional interpreters and, on the other hand, to provide a limited number of interpreting cases to the larger courts. In order to make this possible, a market investigation was launched which can be completed shortly. This shows that the reimbursed rental formula is more expensive if the instrument has to serve for several months during the current difficult period. The college of the seat is therefore keen to promote the instrument so that it can succeed. In reply to your last question, I will propose to the government that, within the framework of the corona measures, the procedures for using the interpreter's interpreter's suitcase should be as flexible as possible. A fee will then no longer be bound by the terms of the tariff decision, but can be used for each individual performance, as long as the social distancing is and will remain necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic295x.u96	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your information and for your commitment.
