ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u1	Hello everyone, I propose to recall the practical arrangements agreed last time. If you have a question, you have two minutes to ask it. If you have more than one question, you have three minutes to formulate a synthesis. We had considered referring systematically to written questions. Simply say that you refer to the written question; the time you did not use to ask the questions is then referred to the reply. We thus have more time to reply. Sometimes a minute is not enough to replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u2	Madam Secretary, workers who pose a risk of contagion for corona can be placed on temporary unemployment because of force majeure for medical reasons. The Frequently Asked Questions document: Temporary unemployment corona on the website of the RVA clarifies that workers showing effective symptoms of disease cannot be placed on temporary unemployment due to force majeure for medical reasons, in which case the disability rules apply and the employee is entitled to a guaranteed wage paid by the employer during the first month. In the case of temporary unemployment, workers receive an unemployment benefit from the RVA of 70% of their gross wage and with a wage ceiling. There is therefore a very substantial difference between the two. However, the current situation with the difference between the risk of infection and the effective symptoms of disease may give rise to confusion and even misuse of the temporary unemployment scheme. Some employers may not give their sick workers a guaranteed wage, but place them on temporary unemployment due to medical force majeure. Sometimes they do so because they are not fully aware of the complex arrangements, but sometimes they do so because employers may find it more financially advantageous to place their workers on temporary unemployment because of medical force majeure, because they do not have to pay guaranteed wages. At least we have heard a number of reports of such cases, hence the following questions, Madam Minister. Do you know of cases where people who are entitled to a guaranteed wage due to illness are placed on temporary unemployment? What measures do you intend to take to ensure that, in the current circumstances which are somewhat confusing, the improper use of temporary unemployment is avoided? Have you agreed with the Minister of Work on this? What steps do you recommend to employees if they have not received a guaranteed wage, when they are actually entitled to it? Do they wish to become members of the sickness fund, the Administrative Control Office or even the Labour Court? Finally, do you think it is necessary to draw up additional, clear guidelines in order to eliminate the possible confusion between the two systems?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u3	The first of my three questions deals with doctors-specialists in training. Some doctors-trained specialists are "unemployed" but, because of a lack of social status, they do not have a replacement income. Madam Secretary, what do you think about the fact that doctors-specialists in training during the corona crisis are placed on inactive and therefore have no income? Don't you think it's time we had a full, normal social status for the doctors-specialists in training? I believe that this is an urgent matter. Some of them have become unemployed and now have nothing. My second question concerns the financing of social security. Social security is an important buffer, which is now doing its full job in this crisis. It is both a social and an economic buffer. Social security is faced with additional costs, especially through temporary unemployment. Madam Secretary, how do you ensure that the social security thesauri, both at the RSZ and the RSVZ, stay in order? Which credit lines should they use? Should they or should they not address their financial buffers? Can they rely on the credit lines they have with different banks or with the Treasury? In this situation, is it not demonstrated that the balancing dose is fundamental and absolutely necessary to extend beyond 2020, and that a guaranteed mechanism is needed to provide adequate income for social security? My final question concerns an appeal concerning incapacity for work, especially with regard to primary incapacity for work. A unanimous appeal was made by the social partners to align the first year of incapacity for work with temporary unemployment, which was raised to 70% before the invalidity came into effect. This is a good thing to protect the income position and purchasing power of the unemployed and therefore has a good economic effect. There is now also a similar demand to increase primary incapacity benefits to 70%, by analogy with temporary unemployment, and to set a minimum amount for the first six months of incapacity for work. Madam Secretary, will you respond to this urgent, joint and unanimous appeal from the social partners? If so, what is the state of implementation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u4	Madam President, two colleagues, Mrs Tillieux and Mrs Thémont, have contacted me to tell me that they are unable to connect. They're told it's a bad connection number. And since I see that few people are connected, maybe there's a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u5	Is there no confusion with the link this morning? We'll check it out. Looks like a new e-mail was sent. Mrs Dedonder, I suggest that you turn to your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u6	Madam President, Minister, VOCID-19 has been placed on the closed list of occupational diseases for health care workers who are in contact with coronavirus, which facilitates recognition, accelerates procedures and promotes better compensation. This is obviously a very good thing. However, other workers are also exposed daily to VOCID-19. These include, for example, staff in food stores, shopkeepers, factors, etc. These workers are also on the front line and take risks in order to perform so-called essential and crucial functions. Minister, why are these professions not included in the closed list of occupational diseases? Are you considering extending this list? If so, what trades? How will you involve the social partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u7	Question No 55004955C by Mrs Karin Jiroflée has become moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u8	Madam President, Madam Minister, I will briefly explain my question. It is about the wage agreement in the service sector that was postponed at the time because there was still an interpretation problem with the target group collective reduction of working time for part-time workers. I will not explain this technically, but the agreement was postponed at the time and was then submitted to the management committee of the RSZ. That committee would examine what additional measures were needed to ensure that the provision could be interpreted correctly. In this way, the wage agreement for the services sector could be signed. The question is very important, especially since cleaning aid has continued to work even during the corona crisis, sometimes in very difficult circumstances. It is therefore important for us to be able to show our appreciation to them and to implement the 0.8 percent increase as soon as possible as well as the other framework measures. Madam Minister, was the question already discussed at the RSZ Management Committee? What was the outcome of the consultation? If there is an agreement on the management committee of the RSZ, how and when will you implement the agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u9	I propose that Mrs Moscufo intervene. Either you refer to the written question to be included in the report, or you synthesize in three minutes. Since you only have two, it may be feasible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u10	Madam Chair, I had several questions to ask. Tell me if I understood the procedure correctly. That's what I wanted to do. I would like to turn one of my questions into written questions. It is the decision of the Constitutional Court. For the other two, I refer to my written questions. So I'll get a longer line.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u11	That's a good note. That's right. Your reply will then be three minutes. You're telling me about the other two, but I can only see one.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u12	I'm sorry. We are not in the same debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u13	Madam President, perhaps I will not respond in the prescribed order. I'll start with Mr Spooren's question. The Men's Agreement of the Group of 10 has been concluded, containing three main elements: a new generic certificate of incapacity for work, the equalization of incapacity for work and temporary unemployment so that there could be no competition between these two, and the notification of temporary unemployment. The new certificate of incapacity for work can be used from yesterday. Of course, all this has been discussed with Mrs Muylle. The technical work must be carried out jointly. The Men's Agreement aims to prevent any abuse of temporary unemployment. More specifically, this is the question put by Mr Spoorten. We have also heard rumours about sick workers being put on temporary unemployment in order to prevent employers from having to pay the guaranteed wage. So far we have no proven cases in this area. Of course, this has been in contact with Mrs Muylle. Its responsibility is to monitor this. If there is more evidence of this, I will take action in this matter with Minister Muylle. The control services are currently within its domain. Mr Bertels asked questions about the status of doctors-specialists in training. This is indeed a special moment for them. No figures are available on the number of doctors-specialists in training who were put on non-active activity during the corona crisis. When these messages arose, the communication was also sent out that these doctors-specialists in training could be used very well in hospitals. In the meantime, a number of new initiatives have been taken to enable them to be involved in one way or another. It was thus agreed that, if they were on a service temporarily interrupted, they could be deployed on other services, provided that appropriate supervision was required. A scheme has also been established whereby doctors in training can, under certain conditions, include COOVID-19 placements in their internship plan. This concerns the time they may have worked on other services. That is not a lost internship for them either. It looks at the possibility of using specific and rotational placements or assimilation stages, if this is not possible. It is up to the accreditation committees, which fall within the competence of the Communities, to approve the traineeships. The Communities have already indicated by letter that they will deal with these traineeships with some flexibility and understand that changes to traineeship plans will take place only after the period. I think it is a good thing that the doctors in training have been deployed in a different way, but have been able to obtain their reward and have had a lot of other experiences. In future, the National Joint Committee on Doctors-Hospitals will examine the waiting allowance, including the allowance for opt-out for these doctors-hospitals in training. The Corona crisis has delayed the question of advice, but will be dealt with. The National Agreement on Medical Funds 2020 also stresses the need to pay greater attention to social rights, in particular on pensions and unemployment. This can no longer be carried out by the current government. In the meantime, for the 2020 premium year, the National Committee on Medical and Medical Funds has granted an increase of EUR 1,250 in the amount of the social benefit. In this legislature, we have made a start on the statute and I will support further initiatives to progressively improve the social status of doctors in training. It has now become clear that, among other things, our doctors in training are not eligible for the system of temporary unemployment, but this was hardly discussed at the time, as pension rights have been discussed in particular. That is why I believe that temporary unemployment should also be discussed further in the womb of the RIZIV, in particular in the National Committee on Medical and Medical Funds. Since 2016, I have provided a concession for the educational efforts made by internships. It is a budget of EUR 61 million for doctors and specialists in training in all hospitals. I think that the available liquidity through the financial injection into hospitals should be used more for the payment of the doctors in training. However, the current crisis has once again confronted us with some of the other problems that are emerging from the doctors in training. What about the funding of social security? There is no doubt that Mr Bertels will ask that question a number of times. I have worked out a new funding for social security until the end of this legislature and that was actually until the end of 2019. For the time being, that decision is being extended, but it is up to the next government, as I have always said, to take a decision in it. The equilibrium dose is now being stopped. It is clear that there will have to be a follow-up to this and that this will lead to a whole debate on questions such as how much this amount should be, as much as necessary - and what about the responsive factors. As far as the other questions are concerned, we have taken measures on five axes in the context of the COVID-19 crisis. The measures for the first axis, the preservation of our economic fabric, must ensure that healthy businesses can survive and resume their activities as soon as possible in the context of relance. The measures on the second axis are aimed at ensuring a minimum income for the socially insured, employees and self-employed and thus also at ensuring purchasing power. Those on the third axis should ensure the continuity of the critical sectors. The measures on the fourth axis are aimed at providing additional security for people driving in the front line, while those on the fifth axis should prevent and protect vulnerable groups from poverty. The measures taken in social security are part of that policy. For the first axis, the system of deferred social security contributions has been developed and already applied. The idea is simple: let companies keep track of their capital for the time being for payment of social security, so that they have a buffer, which they can use to bridge the most difficult period. This measure has a very large impact on cash flow, but ESA-wise it is a neutral measure. The employer must pay no later than 15 December 2020, i.e. within the same financial year. Even if he subsequently asks for a payment plan or if that is already in progress, the measure is still budget-neutral. ESA-based work must be done on the basis of the allocation of rights. Social security rights will be created in 2020 and can therefore also be booked in 2020. Three groups of companies receive deferred payment. An undertaking which is obliged by the State to close is automatically entitled to delay. After registration with the RSZ, delays are also granted to undertakings closing on their own initiative in view of the economic measures taken or in view of the fact that they are not able to comply with the sanitary measures. If companies see their wages or turnover reduced by at least 65%, they may also be delayed. For the determination of the mass of wages, it is the mass of wages declared quarterly to the RSZ via the multifunctional declaration. It is possible to call for a 65% reduction by now, because companies register for the postponement on the basis of forecasts. There are no guidelines yet on how the forecasts are to be drawn up. There are several factors involved and account must be taken of the sector and the individual circumstances of the company. Companies that have registered in good faith for the postponement need not fear that they will be punished for this later. They shall retain the deferment of payment in so far as there is no abuse. No additional costs shall be charged for the amounts subject to the special deferral during the period of the delay. There's no interest during that period either. The companies themselves do not have to take action for this, which is automatically regulated. Companies that are obliged to close will, of course, be automatically delayed. It is awarded without prior examination of the employer's background. At the moment 64.594 employers have been automatically delayed. In addition, 9.349 employers also obtained deferred payment on the basis of a certificate of honour. Through the application Coronacrisis - Check delay of due payments to the RSZ, companies can easily check whether they are eligible for this. The application has already been used 90,000 times. So there is definitely a need for that. Not all amounts are automatically deferred. Deferral of payment does not apply to amounts due on the basis of an automatic declaration made by the RSZ, for example with regard to undeclared work, i.e. a kind of fine. The Council of Ministers stated on 6 March that RSZ COVID-19 should accept as an argument with economic disruption. In other words, the government sees non-payment on this basis as force majeure, and that is why these elements prevail. What happens if companies do not have sufficient liquid resources by 15 December 2020 to make up for the first and second quarter's social contributions? They can apply for a corona payment plan at that time. It is certainly not yet on the agenda to postpone the date from 15 December to later. Companies which do not fall within the scope of one of the three groups may also apply for a corona payment plan from the National Social Security Office. The difference with the traditional payment plans is that no contributions, premiums, flat-rate fees and interest on late payment are due for the corona payment plans, in so far as the company complies with the payment plan. The corona payment plans shall be awarded in accordance with the same procedure as the traditional payment plans. This means that applications are always assessed on the basis of the employer's payment capacity, taking into account any history, such as employment of persons without a valid residence permit or the identification of undeclared work. As part of the second axis, we have focused primarily on a replacement income, in particular temporary unemployment and the right to bridge the gap between self-employed workers. In this context, we have chosen not to extend the system of prophylactic leave. Existing compensation schemes provide adequate protection in the event of incapacity for work. The person infected with VOCID-19 is initially entitled to the guaranteed wage. After the guaranteed period of pay, the persons concerned receive sickness benefit from the sickness insurance. In the case of compulsory quarantine, the worker is entitled to temporary unemployment benefits, the amount of which has been temporarily increased. I explained the gentlemen's agreement in response to Mr Spoorten's question. Within this axis, there is also the extension of meal cheques, ecocheques, etc. in view of the purchasing power that employees risk losing because they cannot spend these cheques. Following the communication of Opinion No. 2161 of the National Labour Council of 8 April I also asked my administration to prepare a draft of KB, with the aim of extending the validity of meal cheques, ecocheques, gift cheques, sports and culture cheques, which are due to expire. They cannot or should not be used until the emergency measures taken to prevent the spread of the coronavirus have been lifted. When the place is closed, you can't buy anything. This means that meal cheques, ecocheques and gift cheques which expire in March, April, May and June of this year will be extended for a further period of six months. The sports and culture cheques with an expiry date of 30 September shall be extended until 31 December 2020. We have also contacted the publishers of such cheques. They plan campaigns and notifications to traders and beneficiaries. A communication to employers is also planned to enable them to answer the questions they receive from their staff. No questions were asked about the third axis, employment measures in the critical sectors. I take it everything is clear in there. The fourth axis focuses on extending the system of occupational diseases to victims of COOVID-19. At the beginning of this crisis, the Management Committee of Comeos COVID-19 recognised occupational diseases in certain cases. Through various schemes, we have ensured that almost everyone working in the front line falls within the occupational disease scheme. The following arrangements apply: a basic system of recognition of COVID-19 which applies, inter alia, to employees and trainees in the private sector and to federal government officials and staff of provincial and local administrations. For the federal officials, the practical handling is done via Medex, but the scheme is the same as for the employees. At KB we have extended the system of occupational diseases to the voluntary ambulances and firefighters of the relief zones. With the KB we set up a fund that provides for a death allowance for the survivors of the volunteers. This scheme also applies to job students. Mrs Dedonder, the extension of the system of occupational diseases applies to people who have been diagnosed positive for VOCID-19 during a test, who work in the health care sector and who, in doing so, have a greater risk of being infected with the virus. For the time being, staff in food stores, for example, are not included. In addition, there is a closed list and an open list of activities. It is estimated that the risk is acute for some personnel. It concerns staff responsible for transporting people who may be infected with COOVID. These are the people with new symptoms of acute upper or lower respiratory infection or with worsening of chronic respiratory symptoms. These include staff from the triage posts specifically designed to investigate patients and staff who perform diagnostic tests or take clinical samples in people who may be infected. It also concerns the labs carrying out manipulations of clinical samples of suspected or confirmed cases for analysis of a COVID infection in the open phase. In addition, the closed system also applies to staff from hospitals and care institutions. In particular, it concerns staff working in emergency services and intensive care services, in lung and infectious disease services and in other services which include COVID-positive people. Thus, if your case falls under the orthopaedic department because you have broken your leg, but at the same time you have a VOCID pathology, the personnel specialized in this field will also intervene. Staff who have carried out diagnostic or therapeutic activities in patients infected or potentially infected with COVID-19, personnel employed in other hospitals and in care institutions where an outbreak of COVID-19 has occurred. That outbreak shall be defined by two or more cases within a maximum period of two weeks. Living and care centres, rest centres and all forms of collective housing for the sick and disabled are treated in the same way as those institutions. The above services and institutions cover medical and paramedical staff treating or caring for patients and logistics and cleaning staff responsible for the maintenance or cleaning of contaminated appliances or premises. For the rest of the workers, the open system applies and it is therefore necessary to provide proof that they have acquired COOVID-19 as part of their professional activities. I have again sought Fedris's opinion on the open system. I have also asked to examine whether the closed system should be extended to other professional positions. In this respect, discussions are currently under way in the Fedris Management Committee. I've already talked about the paramedics and the exemption. This is not only about the ambulances connected to a relief zone, but also about other voluntary ambulances working for private institutions. They are also covered by that provision. It is legally two different statutes. That is why we have had to work out two different arrangements. However, they are now being caught in the same way. The fifth and perhaps most difficult axis is the prevention of poverty and the protection of vulnerable groups. A special task force 'vulnerable groups' has been set up within the government to make proposals on a number of concrete phases in which there is a risk of rising poverty or inequality. The proposals will clearly be of a temporary nature, but they can, of course, form a basis for further discussions in the framework of a government negotiation. We are also looking at the situation of the people living together. While the impact of cohabitant status on women is extremely important, it is also important for other groups of citizens, often in complex and difficult situations. I am very much in favour of an in-depth multidisciplinary analysis of this subject with a view to the formulation of the "proposal for reform", which we could discuss politically. However, the government's commitment is to limit its action outside the subject of managing the coronavirus crisis by managing the other aspects in a framework similar to that of current affairs. I am therefore not in a position to develop a new policy on a subject as sensitive as that of the status of the cohabitant. It is also within that axis that the question of the protection of sex workers lies. As you know, sex workers only have social protection through the status they occupy. They may be declared as self-employed. These workers, as well as other self-employed workers, can benefit from the measures taken in the context of the crisis related to VOCID-19, such as, for example, bridge law. As far as the status of employee is concerned, the latter requires the engagement in a connection of an employment contract, which implies a link of subordination of the worker vis-à-vis his employer. However, the recruitment of persons for prostitution is criminally prohibited. Nevertheless, it is well known that many sex workers are declared to the ONSS as wage-earners for the activities carried out, for example within the Horeca or "aesthetic and care lounges" or for artistic performances. In view of the above, these workers, as well as other salaried workers, can also benefit from the measures taken in the context of the crisis, linked to VOCID, such as temporary unemployment. In addition to these five axes, there was also a question from Mrs Thémont about the introduction of a possible robotic tax. Mrs. Thémont, our economy is particularly affected by coronavirus. In the years ahead, we will need to focus more than ever on economic growth to maintain our health care and social model. Introducing a robot tax would mean introducing a tax on technological innovation and slowing down our economic growth. So I don't think it's a good idea, but we can discuss it if other ideas come to you about it. I know that digitizing the economy is a huge challenge, but I do not think we should be afraid of it. On the contrary, we should see opportunities, as well as new forms of trade developed when we were previously limited in our purchasing methods. Will this revolution contribute to job losses? As always, some jobs will be abandoned, while others will grow. As with other upheavals, a large number of jobs are being created. When we went from horse to machine, many people believed that everyone would lose their job and that mass unemployment would develop. But this was not the case; the opposite was the case. In the past, there were typographs, lacemakers and millers – all of which have disappeared and have been replaced by a multitude of more interesting ones. Today, we must take the digitalisation train in motion, not try to prevent progress by means of new taxes. To do this, we must provide people with the means to keep up with technological developments. How do we do this? More than ever, we need to build on continuing training and ensure that workers – and our young people, through education – are prepared for tomorrow's jobs. When employment disappears in certain sectors, workers must be able to move quickly towards those sectors which lack labour. Without going through a period of unemployment, they must be able to be hired by a new employer, with whom they can be trained for a new job. We need to think proactively. By enabling people to develop their skills and opportunities, we prevent them from becoming unemployed. Last year, as part of my vision for the future of social security, I launched the "capuccino model" which implies that training continues throughout working life. Training plays an important role in this model. It is worth a debate, but we have never conducted it. In any case, we must ensure that everyone is involved in a rapidly changing world. It's a collective responsibility. On the other hand, this issue was not directly related to VOCID-19. Questions were also asked about the destruction of the non-taxable additional income scheme as of 1 January 2021 by the Constitutional Court. I have already replied to that in the context of an oral question. This is particularly unfortunate for those who rightly use it. First of all, I find this very regrettable for the sports sector, which accounts for about 70% of the use of the system of voluntary work, but also, and I find this even more regrettable, for those who need help and who could use, at a reasonable price, additional assistance through the services of citizens to citizens. Indeed, a quarter of the services provided in this system were in the context of assistance and assistance to people in need of care. It's twice as much as the small maintenance work, which has been so criticized. We have seen this system play a really good role in a number of sectors and the scheme is still running until 31 December 2020. For the sports sector, but also for those in need, and perhaps even for the cultural sector, I hope that there will still be a settlement after that date. There are still debates to be held, and it is the new government that has to take the initiative. In the absence of a new government, Parliament may take the initiative to draw up a regulation. Mrs Vanrobaeys had a question about reducing the target population. We have asked for the opinion of the Management Committee on this matter, but that is not really related to corona.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u14	Minister, Ms. Moscufo referred her question to the Constitutional Court in writing. Can we therefore consider that it has been answered? You keep the time you want to answer. All right. Thank you, Mrs. Moscufo. We will take a look at the answers, beginning with Mr.Anseeuw, who had referred to his written questions and who has four minutes to answer the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u15	Madam Minister, I have asked two oral questions and you have provided a great deal of clarity on both questions. My first question was about postponing the payment of the RSZ employers' contributions as a result of the corona crisis. My concern is that it is extremely important that sufficient breathing space, at least temporarily, is created for those employers who are in a very difficult situation today, including the start-up of the economy, which hopefully is getting a bit underway, will still be particularly challenging for employers without people who act in bad faith or have acted, using the corona crisis as a back door to escape their obligations. In this respect, I am extremely satisfied with the clarity and, above all, with what you have said, because I fully agree with your approach in this regard. My second oral question dealt with the financial impact of the corona crisis on social security. You have also been very clear about this, but I am just a little less happy with that answer, because you were very brief: you actually replied rather laconically that the government is only there to deal with the corona crisis and that it is not intended to pursue new policies. However, this is about taking care of the shop and that is the task of every government, whether there is a government with full power, by a majority or without a majority in Parliament. The store must always look after, and my questions are there to look for, because we may suspect that the financial impact will not be less, but it is difficult to estimate. There are many factors that indicate a bad outcome at the end of this year. Over the next few years, we will still have some work to do to correct this: less income, less economy, more expenditure, for example in temporary unemployment, etc. We can also expect less healthy years, which will also result in additional expenditure in health care. I can go on like this for a while. My question will certainly come back more often. You say that you have drawn up a multiannual estimate until the end of 2019 and that it will then be up to the next government. It is not a small detail to look after the store, so I am disappointed that I can only derive that from your answer, namely that the shop is not being looked after today. I am very concerned about that, and I would like to call on you to do what is necessary to look after that store and to see what estimates you can make. I know that it is not easy to assess this in the short term, but we must at least make a commendable effort. The bill for the future and, above all, the affordability of social security in the short and long term must be safeguarded. That assessment is therefore important to look after the store of our oh so dear social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u16	Madam Secretary, thank you for the partial answers. With regard to doctors-trainers, initiatives have been taken to involve them elsewhere and to have their internship recognised in the cases where they have taken a different placement, including on covid-19 treatments. That's good business. However, even if you do not have any figures, you know that this has not been done everywhere on the ground. Some doctors-specialists in training are in the lead or were literally told that they no longer had to show up or were not allowed to fill in. As in many areas, the shortcomings in the Statute are clearly demonstrated in this crisis. You yourself referred to the allowances previously given to the internships. Actually, the doctors-specialists in training have no statute. They are sometimes used, sometimes well and sometimes improperly. Their social status must therefore be improved. To that end, you refer to the medicomut. You are represented in this through the Government Commissioner. I believe that you must send a clear signal from the government that it must be done so that the social status of doctors-specialists in training is finally achieved after years. These include pensions and unemployment, but also temporary unemployment and sickness benefits. It must go forward now, and I urge you to give the signal to do so. With regard to the financing of social security, you did not address the question of the lines of credit. I think I can implicitly deduce that social security, RSZ and RSVZ, can use a credit line from the treasury if necessary. In this way, they should not rely on the credit line of the banks with which they have agreements, thus avoiding interest. It is good to give breathing space to the employers or the self-employed, to which Mr Anseeeuw refers, and also to the workers and the self-employed in terms of social protection. This requires financial resources. I assume that we can continue to use the credit line of the treasury. The financing of our precious social security must be guaranteed. It is no good to the social security system that the government is or is not in the process of being extended. One simply needs to provide for guaranteed insurance. Everyone now praises our social security for economic stabilisers. Let us therefore provide for this stable funding. If it is no longer possible for the government to do so, then you will continue to meet me in Parliament. Then we will continue to take initiatives to provide for this stable guaranteed and solidarity financing of social security. Get according to needs, contributions according to ability, including with regard to the financing of our social security systems. Madam Secretary, I did not hear you say anything about increasing disability benefits, Madam Secretary. This was also a unanimous question from the social partners to go to 70%. I think we should do this exercise in view of the crisis situation, but also more generally in the context of the revaluation of certain minimum benefits in our social security system. We need this in the context of the fifth axis: prevent poverty and protect the most vulnerable. We must do the same for disability benefits and invalidity benefits. You have work to do there, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear that a door is still open and negotiations are still taking place within Fedris to see if this closed system could be opened to other trades. As far as I am concerned, I hope that this will be the case and I look forward to it. For my group, it is important that workers in key sectors who are forced to work during the crisis period should also be recognised on the basis of the closed list of occupational diseases if they have potentially been brought into contact with contaminated persons and if their place of work or the way in which their work is organised poses a risk. Madam Minister, I am counting on you to open this list.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u18	Madam Secretary, many self-employed people are running the risk. The series of measures taken is certainly a good start to bridge the coming period, but I fear that we need to look further anyway, well beyond 15 December of this year. I understand from your reply that there would be a possibility of a corona-payment plan for social contributions and others, but that this is not yet on the agenda. It's, of course, We will only be able to assess the financial impact of the corona crisis in the coming months. Purchasing power will also fall, as many workers will have to do less and certain expenditure will therefore no longer do so. The catering industry is one of the most affected sectors. Hotels only had to close their restaurant, but due to the domestic travel ban, which still applies, they obviously do not see any customers. Restaurants may open on 8 June at the latest, but that date is subject to reservation. For cafés and bars no date has yet been announced. Additional measures will also have to be taken for the catering sector in the coming months. The sector continues to press for the cancellation of social security contributions for the first quarter of 2020. This would help several entrepreneurs to survive this crisis and thus save many jobs. You did not answer my question about the premium for those who stayed on, for example in the transport sector or in the department stores, and my question about the coronabonus for the caregivers. However, the idea was launched at the beginning of April to grant a premium to health care workers and workers from other sectors who remained at work and who had to perform far more than usual. I continue to hope that this measure will be implemented. This measure must be implemented. Those who have remained at work for us, those who have kept the economy running, and especially those who are still in the line of fire for our health, deserve a premium, deserve a bonus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u19	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I will allow myself a little bit, Madam Chair, because the minister was kind enough to answer a whole series of questions that were not on the agenda of this meeting. I am thinking of robotization, the status of cohabitants, service titles. These were questions that we had been asked to remove because they were not related to the VOCID-19. I would like to see that before this session is interrupted, we can have a discussion about the organization because that is not the case. I didn't have those questions in front of me because they weren't planned. In my reply, I will therefore simply stick to the situation of sex workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u20	Madam Chair, we have not been warned that questions have been removed. I asked my collaborator. Since we didn't know, I answered all the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u21	We will indeed have to discuss the management of the issues again because there have been small coracs for two days in the exchanges. We're going to have to discuss this with ministers and cabinets. We're going to try to settle this for next week and for Friday as far as Mrs Muylle is concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u22	Minister, I was just thanking you for answering those questions that were not on the agenda. As for my reply on sex workers, I am not teaching you anything, we are currently experiencing a crisis and sex workers have to deal with it and demand immediate answers. Let us remember here that some must continue their activity despite the ban! For some, it's a matter of survival. Is it normal to put your life in danger to survive? That is the question. Sex workers who have decided to temporarily stop their work now find themselves in extreme situations. It is not I who say so since the Alias association, which offers psycho-medical and social accompaniment specifically aimed at male prostitutes especially in Brussels, for example, denounces the fact that these people who have suspended their activity find themselves "in situations never seen in such extreme ways in 25 years of work". Minister, we're talking about how we can shelter or feed ourselves. I hope you hear the distress of these people. In addition, the status of sex workers is varied, as you said. This diversity should therefore be taken into account in order to help each of them. In this context, one cannot accept that a single claim means setting aside a whole series of people. I understand that workers who are self-employed or wage earners are mostly helped, but there are still many other workers who are not taken into account today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u23	Ms. Thémont, for the encoding of questions, do you consider that you have received an answer to your question No. 55004123C?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u24	Yes. And as I have just said, the minister has answered other questions that I have asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u25	This issue in particular is on the agenda. She was officially sent to the firm.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u26	If it's easier for you, keep it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u27	What about the others? Can we turn them into written questions? We will conduct an audit of the pre-corona issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u28	I have the same problem, Madam President. My question was raised, but apparently it is not COOVID-related. I believe that unanimity has already been achieved in the management committee. Just because the cleaning aid has been deployed, sometimes in difficult circumstances, I would like to insist that they receive the appreciation they deserve and that the agreement is effectively implemented. I might as well turn that question into a written question, Madam Minister, but I would like to point out that I have a number of questions about figures, for example on the work of associations, which have not been answered after four or five months. We cannot allow cleaning aid to wait so long for any progress to be made on their dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. With respect to the recognition of VOCID-19 as an occupational disease, we have received information from you that discussions would be held to determine whether or not the number of occupational diseases in the closed system would be considered. If I understand correctly, we are happy about it, but we will also keep an eye on it. Indeed, this morning we introduced a bill that we discussed with our colleagues here, just to explain the need to expand this list. In my question, I also asked you your opinion on the National Academy of Medicine, but you did not answer. The Academy has already argued on 3 April 2020 that, beyond the essential sectors, this concept of occupational disease should be extended to other workers who, although not directly linked to health care, still take many risks. This institute found it important. This morning, we had the opportunity to discuss the fact that, for the time being, strict measures on social distancing in the private sphere continued and were fully justified. We support them. But these measures really contrast strongly with a number of situations that workers experience in their workplace. At the break between two committees, we saw construction workers before Parliament. Just look at them for a few minutes to realize that they are not workers who are unaware of the problem of the pandemic. They want to work, and within the concrete framework of their work, they find themselves unable to respect social distancing on the basis of the very nature of their work. Another argument is to say something else. Among other things, we heard the FEB representative say that workplaces would be the safest places at the moment. I didn't know if I should laugh or cry. It is known that 85 per cent of the companies that were audited were not in accordance with the rules. I thought I heard all your answers, but your position is not clear to me. What is your position on this as a minister? Do you think this is a necessity for the health and purchasing power of these workers? It is known that when they are recognized as victims of an occupational disease, they will be able to receive a higher compensation than at present and that medical expenses may also be reimbursed. I would not say that I am not counting on you, but we will continue the debates at Parliament level to try to find a parliamentary majority to expand this list. This idea was supported by the FGTB, which launched an online petition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u30	Minister, this morning we debated the recognition of VOCID-19 as an occupational disease since a bill was tabled. It is therefore interesting that this afternoon you answered questions that we asked ourselves this morning. I would like to go back to something you mentioned, namely the question of contact. You said that in health care spaces, and you expanded to transport people and laboratories, there is the question of frequency and contact. I totally agree with that. I would also like to add that there is also the question of mastering the contact protocol. In fact, it is known that there is clearly an increased risk of contamination in health care. It's indisputable. But we also know that there is training and capacity to manage this risk, which, for example, in large distribution, is not necessarily the case. Have people who work in the retail sector today been trained to be able to adequately protect themselves from risks, whether at the level of social distancing or contact? You talked about lab tubes, etc. The people who do the tests and tests know how to master these protocols. On the other hand, in the large distribution, there is not only no training but, moreover, there is no very clear protocol. This applies to the criteria for recognition of an occupational disease. On the one hand, there is a more or less significant risk and, on the other hand, there is the inevitable aspect of this contamination. However, Ecolo-Groen considers that, from the outset, there has been a significant risk both in the front lines of health care and in the front lines of large-scale distribution, which necessarily had to continue to work since they met the vital needs of the population. This risk was not only present but also inevitable. We have not yet taken a position because we would first like to hear Fedris on the matter. But I really think that, when we work on this issue of recognition of the occupational disease of this pandemic and the possible future pandemics – as has unfortunately been mentioned but we must be realistic – it is imperative that the criteria for recognition be more equitable and less discriminating. Minister, this is more of an appeal that I am making so that we can quickly have discussions on these issues in the coming days or weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u31	I think we have taken a look at the questions to the minister. Do other colleagues still wish to speak, as we are in a topical debate? If that is not the case, I thank the minister for her presence today. No objection, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u32	Madam President, I still have some answers to give.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u33	We're listening.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u34	Mr Anseuw, you are asking how the situation can be assessed and what the impact will be on social security. There is indeed a reduction in RSZ, more expenditure in health insurance now, but probably also in the following years, and the amount for temporary unemployment is still rising. Indeed, a first meeting of the Finance and Budget Committee (CFB) has already taken place. Last week, the Committee attempted to assess this and concluded that the figures available at present do not allow an estimate to be made. So we're actually working on it, but it's too early according to the CFB. Mr Bertels, the first steps have been taken with regard to the asos. A wider and well-developed proposal was also presented in consultation with the training assistants. This proposal went up to and including retirement. There are still some sums to be found. The proposal can be implemented. The credit line runs not through the banks, but through the treasury. I, for my part, cannot now take a decision on current cases or put forward a proposal on the financing of social security for the following years. The preparatory work for the 2021 budget will be done in the same way. However, this work will not be facilitated by the impact of this corona crisis. In doing so, the equilibrium dose may need to be adjusted. The same applies to the alternative financing of health care. That exercise will be done at the end of June, when the accounts are closed. Once again, this will be done in the same way. However, if there is another government at that time, it will be my successor. As far as Fedris is concerned, we had a great deal of discussion and I asked them for an opinion. Within the Fedris Management Committee are the social partners who have some experience and who can provide input for the discussion. If we have to extend the compensation to Mr. and Mrs. everyone, then this is no longer a fund for occupational diseases. Indeed, to be recognized as an occupational disease, the disease must be linked to your profession! For example, if I'm sitting here at my office and I'm infected with someone passing through, it's not an occupational disease. Even though I was infected at the place where I practiced my profession, it is not related to my profession as such. We'll take that. That is where a major enlargement is taking place. The cost of this occupational disease fund will then increase exponentially. The social partners are also concerned with this issue. As I said, I asked for an opinion. Mrs Thémont, as far as sex workers are concerned, they are self-employed or wage-earners. You say they kept working, but I think it was dangerous. This was not necessary because they have the opportunity to benefit from income, albeit less than usual. I think they really took unnecessary risks, which I regret. When we say that the virus is spreading, when we do everything we can to prevent its spread, it really does not help us! Mrs Vanrobaeys, you asked why I did not answer your question on the opinion of the Management Committee. The simple reason is that we have not yet received that advice. We have heard that it is there, but we have not yet received that advice. It is not yet possible for us to fully examine that advice. It is a late opinion, because it has been with the management committee for more than two years, but this has probably speeded it up a bit. We will look at that from the moment it is delivered to us, but I cannot anticipate it on the basis of what I am told. Madam President, I think we will still have the opportunity to have a discussion about Fedris, but I already had a few comments to make about the possible consequences for Fedris.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u35	Thank you, Minister. Indeed, an opinion was asked of Fedris this morning. It will therefore always be possible to come back and have a debate, to which you will be cordially invited. This could be interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u36	Madam President, there must be clarity as to which questions are being addressed, which are being passed on to the Minister and which are on the agenda. If we are here, we would like an answer. I understand that these are special times, but we need to take a closer look at them and organise them better.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u37	Yes, we'll check this out. There was a series of elements. We did not have access to the e-meeting for several days and it was therefore not easy to verify the smooth running of the question-session. This is a series of small, problematic elements. We will see if Friday's meeting with Minister Muylle will work better. We will thus be able to take stock of the weekend to avoid being taken short or that ministers do not have an answer to questions that we believe we have asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u38	Before Friday, I can't withdraw some outdated questions, though I'd like to.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u39	Madam Minister, thank you for the small clarification on the financial impact on social security, which is only part of my question. I can assume that it may be a little early to assess the impact, but I am curious when the committee will be able to make a first assessment worthy of that name. So I would very much appreciate it if you could answer that. Apart from that, I asked you how you now fit in with the measures taken in the context of the corona crisis. After all, you must limit the negative impact on social security as much as possible. You did not answer that part of my question, but I do not want to turn it into a ping-pong contest. For the record, I conclude that there is still some margin for growth when it comes to looking after the social security store. We will certainly come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u40	I told you that the Committee on Finance and the Budget, the CFB, the social security system, is a good example of this, and it follows every month. At its previous meeting, it noted that there were not enough figures available to make a calculation of the impact. Perhaps that will become clearer next month. The CFB was created precisely to assess the impact on social security expenditure and income as soon as possible, if problems arise. The committee shall meet monthly and shall work on the basis of the figures available at that time. There may be some delay in these figures if one has to compare months and weeks with weeks. That committee is thorough and if it says that it cannot yet make an assessment, then I cannot oblige it to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u41	Madam Secretary, that's not what I meant. I suppose it's too soon to get the full picture. It's only natural that it's too early for that. I did not contradict you on that point either. I merely pointed out that my question was also about the measures you and the government are taking and have taken in the context of corona itself. How will these measures take account of the negative impact and try to minimise that negative impact? There is no doubt that, in the middle of the coronastorm and after six to seven weeks of action, it is far too early to know what the overall picture is and will be. I understand that, of course. I do not, therefore, prejudice what you have explained.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u42	Mr Anseuw, I thought you knew that it is obvious that every measure we propose comes with an opinion from the Treasury Inspectorate. We must present the impact of the measure to be taken on social security. This is always taken into account. I thought it was obvious that we cannot simply take measures out of the loose wrist.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u43	Madam Minister, I am aware of the operation of the Treasury Inspection and of the role of that service, of course. Policy-wise, however, this advice should always follow something. For the sake of clarity, that was the thrust of my question. However, on another occasion, I will certainly come back to it in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u44	Thank you, Madam Minister. We can move on to the questions addressed to Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u45	Mr. De Vuyst being absent, his question no. 55005296C is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u46	My questions for you are therefore the following: 1. Disability fraud has long been one of your top priorities. What control measures have you taken in consultation with the SIOD, the Social Intelligence and Investigation Service, to detect such violations? 2. What sanctions do you provide for for companies that put their staff to temporary unemployment? 3. In how many cases have your services intervened since 18 March?"
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u47	Minister, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u48	I got some questions about the operation of the social inspection services. As a minister, I am doing everything in my power to protect and monitor the safety and workload of social inspectors, through the SIOD, which is developing new and adequate procedures to address the various concerns of social inspectors. In this way we offer support and guidance, in close consultation with the SIOD. It goes without saying that the COVID-19 crisis has an impact on the tasks of the various social inspection services. Several sectors of the economy were closed as a result of measures to combat COOVID-19, which prevented controls. Many companies also let their employees work telework. The inspectors themselves have also had to adapt their working methods. This does not mean that controls will no longer be carried out, but that the tasks of the inspection services will be adapted to the current crisis situation. The priorities were commemorated, taking into account the current social situation. For example, remote checks are carried out, where possible, by telephone or e-mail. The provision of services to visitors with requests for information or complaints was also further guaranteed, although only by appointment. The stock of investigations already carried out was further handled administratively, which allowed it to be reduced. Data analyses, evaluations and the completion of closed field investigations also continue to continue. Apart from their usual control tasks, the inspectors of the various departments also contributed to different tasks within their own organisation, by providing information and answering many questions from employers, self-employed workers, employees and social secretariats. All these cases were followed up, for example at the level of the call centre of the RVA. The RVA also dealt with a very large number of temporary unemployment dossiers in the context of the pandemic. Many self-employed people are also heavily affected by the crisis. Therefore, the mission of the RSVZ was also modified. Over the last few weeks, the auditors and inspectors of the RSVZ have contributed to the guidance of the self-employed, including in the call centre, by answering questions. The RIZIV has decided to temporarily postpone all interviews of the inspectors of the RIZIV and the DGSC with healthcare professionals and insured persons and all clinical studies of insured persons in order not to burden the caregivers themselves further. However, sometimes on-the-spot checks are still necessary. For example, the RVA carries out checks to detect and stop abuse and fraud in temporary unemployment. These checks are carried out in compliance with the preventive measures proposed by Empreva, the joint internal prevention service of the federal government. This involves exempting on-the-spot inspections by inspectors belonging to risk groups from different hygiene measures. It was also decided, in consultation with the various social inspection services, the SIOD and the labour auditors, to limit the so-called joint checks, the SIOD checks, to urgent and necessary checks, in particular checks in the event of highly organised fraud, at the request of the labour auditors or at the request of the police. In the Ministry of Welfare at Work, the way in which work is carried out has not fundamentally changed because their mission also includes protection against biological agents. This is important in the context of COOVID-19. A specific checklist was developed which was also useful for employers and employees. It was also posted on the FPS Employment website. Many inspections can also be done by telephone. Complaints by employees can be dealt with by telephone. Every day about a hundred questions for information were handled via email or telephone, which also brought with it a lot of work. The various services therefore remain operational, albeit in a modified form, and also help to guide and inform employers and to explain to workers the necessary preventive measures and to clarify what they need to apply in order to enable them to reboot their activities safely. As regards the monitoring of crisis measures, a regulation is currently being drawn up which extends the powers of social inspectors to the measures taken in the MB of 23 March. This should ensure that the said inspection services have their own competence to monitor corona measures at employers' level. In this way, the social inspectors can contribute to the safety and social disruption of workplaces. So there has been a lot of consultation and a lot of adjustments have been made in recent weeks. At the start of the corona crisis on 13 March, I asked SIOD, in consultation with the five social inspection services, to draw up a directive on how to deal with the corona crisis and the forced closure of companies. Several services are still active today to advise companies on the corona measures but also to carry out controls. The focus of these services remains on the well-known priorities: heavy social dumping, undeclared work, benefit fraud. I have not imposed any additional actions to achieve the 2020 targets. In order to answer questions concerning the controls of the Social Inspectorate of Technically Unemployed Persons, you need to know that many workers are entitled to this system. According to information from the field, checks are carried out at the level of Outlook, Internet history, etc., but this is, in fact, not the case. However, controls are needed to avoid abuse. These controls, which are carried out in collaboration with the Social Information and Research Service (SIRS), focus on the implementation of the regulation on technical unemployment. They are made on the basis of contacts with workers on the employment of this system. Joint controls are also organised at the request of the auditorates. There are also checks on the monitoring of corona measures (compulsory closure, telework, etc.).). With the inspection services, we are really trying to detect abuses. In order to carry out the checks, we call on the Banque Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale. We have also put in place potential fraud trails to detect and control more effectively. In addition, we follow up on reports to the Contact Point for fair competition. What can be checked? The inspector may check all information carriers. The employer must give him access so that he can check that there is no combination of temporary unemployment and telework. So the social inspector will not stop by to check the employee's laptop, but there must be clear and readable data available to avoid fraud. Many of the socio-economic measures relating to workers and employers are currently law-making in the country. Therefore, account will be taken, for example, of the precarious financial situation in which an undertaking or an employee is located. Of course, we must tackle the deliberate abuse of temporary unemployment and the unlawful acquisition of benefits. The punishments are diverse. They are described in the Social Criminal Code. There is a specific question concerning the safety of inspectors. I have already explained that we have taken action with SIRS and the Centre for Workplace Prevention at the federal level, with clear instructions for social inspectors. This means measures of social distancing, the types of checks that can be carried out, the administrative preparation necessary to carry out the on-the-spot checks and strict rules for the checks carried out on the ground, again in compliance with the social distancing with the persons present. We have given clear guidelines. The RVA does not yet have exact figures. The investigations carried out since the beginning of the crisis have been followed, but I cannot yet give you the figures on the number of days of unemployment checked, the number of days withdrawn or the reason for withdrawal. Those figures are still being processed. I think I have answered most of the questions. Should I have forgotten anything else, I would like to reply in the second round.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your very detailed and comprehensive answer. You have replied very comprehensively. It is now clear to me how the social inspectors can organise their work with a view to their own well-being, their own health and their own safety. On the other hand, the changing circumstances, for example closing sectors, do not make it so easy to check and inspect things in the classic way. Are new phenomena emerging in this corona age? Is it now more common for certain phenomena to be identified than before in the field of controls and inspections? Or is it still coffee-diving to see what the near future will bring?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answers. My line will be short. I do not yet know the details of everything you include in the inspection, but according to the information available to me, the number of people available to carry out these checks is relatively small. So I don't see very well how you're going to organize these checks with so few staff or I didn't understand you well. The government is expected to put in place the necessary controls. Even Minister Muylle said it was not acceptable for some employers to use workers during their temporary unemployment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u51	Minister, I would like, if possible, to have a little idea of what clear, visible and legible telework data mean. Indeed, we have come back with information and questions about being able to control an e-mail sent on a day when we are supposed to be unemployed, which would lead to the loss of the right to unemployment for a day. It seemed a bit difficult to imagine in concrete terms. Could we have a more concrete explanation? How do these officials work remotely? It would be interesting to get one day a report on these inspection firsts for telework because it is clear that the crisis has brought a new way of working. In this context, it might be interesting to already draw initial conclusions on what is possible and how to control remote work. Thank you, anyway, for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u52	I do think it would be an interesting exercise to see how the change in rules and the current situation have an impact on the new phenomena. We have to do this analysis. I hope we never have to end up in this confinement situation again, but we never know. It is therefore important, in our view, to examine whether new phenomena have arisen and whether we therefore need to change our controls further. Telework for inspectors is carried out through, for example, the crossing of data to enable them to carry out checks and to detect abuses and fraud mechanisms. We continue to use this tool. There are also complaints lodged via the point of contact for fair competition. Here too, there is a follow-up that can be done by telephone. The worker who filed the complaint or the company is contacted again. Here too, we are able to monitor certain phenomena. The number of staff has never been so high: more than 1,000 people work in the inspection services. During the reform of the social inspection services, we added staff. We are organizing collaborations between departments to improve fraud detection. For example, it is necessary to be able to detect persons who have temporary unemployment status but who do telework at the same time. So we need to list a number of things, such as new phenomena and controls that are being carried out. There will also need to be an adjustment so that inspections can continue effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for the additional explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u54	Madam Chair, the minister responded to some of my questions that were not on the agenda. How should we do this? Are they considered to have been taken into consideration and will I receive a written response? Or do I have to ask them at a next meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u55	Would you have the number of the questions, when they were not on the list?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u56	It was all the issues that were removed, because they had no relation to VOCID-19. These are questions No 55003365C, No 55003212C, No 55003489C, No 55003550C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u57	Mrs. Thémont, do you consider that you have received an answer to your questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u58	I didn't have the questions in front of me, but I heard that at some point the minister had mentioned the robot problem without me being able to react.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u59	We will consider that you have requested their postponement. At the next meeting, the Minister will respond again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u60	Maybe it's boring for her.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u61	I think it'll be all right. I could see that she was ready to respond and that she had control of the subject. I guess it won't be the opposite. We're trying to make up for the little quiucs. We will propose it to her and check with her that the postponement of the subject is not a problem. She'll explain it again next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u62	If it does not wish to do so, please include my text so that it can be taken into account in the reports. Otherwise my questions will not be included.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u63	The answer will be in any case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u64	But not my questions. So it's better to report them?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u65	I think so, too. Mrs. Moscufo, do you have the same problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u66	I don't know if that's a problem. It's just that at some point, I was turning a specific question into a written question. I think you understand that. Then the minister started talking.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u67	She said she didn't hear.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u68	I understand that. So you wanted to intervene and, by correction, I signaled to you that I didn't. But it was more by correction for her than for anything else. I therefore do not know whether it is still possible to keep this question as a written question for a written answer at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u69	You're gonna get the answer. As she mentioned, it will be included in tomorrow's report. The answer, anyway, you'll get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u70	All right. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u71	It's nothing. You did not reply, but the answer, you will receive it tomorrow or after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u72	In the transcript, okay!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u73	Yes. The question was therefore answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u74	Yes. So it's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-05-55-commissie-ic169x.u75	Questions Nos 55005296C and 55005296C. From Vuyst No. 55004588C from Ms. Willaert to Mr. From Backer are removed.
