ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u2	Madam Prime Minister, yesterday the National Security Council announced a number of relaxations for our country. Markets can be partially reopened, contact professions such as hairdressers and many people need to go back to work. And when the Rue de la Loi is open, one can expect zoos to open. [[Hilarity]] In all seriousness, we carry out the proposed exit plan step by step. Some have claimed that there was no clear plan. I think that there is and that you manage to maintain the timing that was set a few weeks ago. However, it remains crucial to monitor the reproduction rate of the coronavirus. That's 0.6, and it's up slightly now. We must follow that up and ensure that the virus does not spread further. The measures do weigh heavily. People can see limited friends now, but not that much, children have been at home for two months, playgrounds and schools remain largely closed. Some sectors, such as the catering industry, are still waiting for more clarity. Everyone is also looking forward to the coming summer holiday. We have no choice but to be patient. We can only re-engage the activities that I just mentioned and which we hope will soon be able to re-engage, if we follow the security measures and if we keep the figures under control. Our country can't handle a second lockdown, and we can only avoid it by complying with the precautionary measures together. Madam Prime Minister, 80 000 people are employed in the major catering sector. How will you monitor the situation and what prospects do you see for the sector in order to maintain the timing of, for example, 8 June? Is that indeed the timetable or can things be done faster? Will it be possible to follow the timetable?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u3	Madam Prime Minister, if the leaders of the government parties in particular are asking questions about the decisions of the National Security Council, then it must have been excellent decisions. You rightly pointed out yesterday that the relaxation of a lockdown is quite different from its introduction, because it is more subtle and much more delicate. If our group has to choose between no markets or a market with 50 stalls, 70% of Belgian markets are markets with less than 50 stalls, then we choose the latter, because it is done in consultation with local authorities and because it is a choice for small scale. This will also be the choice that will be necessary in the event of subsequent relaxations. If we want to make events possible after 30 June, that will be with consultation and small scale. Madam Prime Minister, you are quite right to wait until 8 June to look at the consequences of the measures taken before proceeding with possible relaxations. We have to be careful. Be careful doesn't mean we have to sit still. In this sense, I agree with the Flemish Youth Minister's plea to prepare us for the re-opening of the play streets. There are children who do not have a garden and who are not at a sports club. There are kindergarten children who pass along a playground with their parents and can't get on it. Why don't you explain that? If Heads of Government and European leaders say that the Schengen borders should be open and tourism should be possible next summer, as I hope, then the playgrounds should certainly open and young people should be able to go to camp. First things first . Madam Prime Minister, how can we prepare that? How can we prepare other measures against the next Security Council communiqué aimed at the most vulnerable in our society?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u4	Mr President, I am surprised to see my question taken up under the same title as those of my colleagues, because it is slightly different. However, the most important is the answer. Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the crisis, the concern of environmentalists has been to participate in the collective effort to preserve the health of our citizens, but also to act for all the victims of the economic and social crisis that we are going through. Among these, there are all the staff of the Horeca, but also the artists, who are currently without activity and income. You need to hear their alarm cry. Everyone must mobilize for this sector and we welcome the statements made by each other and the first meeting of the interdepartmental conference on culture that took place this Tuesday. Now we need answers. On 8 May, Minister Muylle announced a series of measures for workers in the sector. I am, of course, pleased to do so, but it is still insufficient. Today we need extraordinary measures that guarantee an income to all those who can justify artistic activities, throughout the period of the crisis, for which we do not have an end date. As Prime Minister, you are aware that the cultural sector is the third largest European employer, with no fewer than 200,000 workers in Belgium. Urgent action is needed at the federal level, and unfortunately our bill has not been given the urgency. In the meantime, we learned in the press that the MR announced, through its president, a plan for culture. I am obviously delighted to see that other political parties are worried about the fate of our artists. Madam Prime Minister, culture is the guarantor of our democracy. That is why it is time to take note of the scale of the situation and to offer artists and technicians in this country a status worthy of their skills and sufficient social protection that will enable them to go through this unprecedented crisis. Otherwise, the special powers granted to this government will have contributed to the abandonment of a whole part of our workers and citizens. Prime Minister, I look forward to a clear commitment from your government to culture and thank you for your response.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like every week, I would like to focus on the evolution of epidemiological data, which are essential in the current phasing-out process. After all, only on the basis of that evolution can subsequent phases be initiated. The positive tendencies of the past few days continue. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the staff in the health sector once again for their efforts. In recent days we have seen a decreasing trend in the number of hospitalisations and also the figures of the occupation of the intensive care departments are good.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u6	Madam Secretary, there is a problem with the microphone. The microphone works, but its indicator lamp doesn't work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u7	Mr President, I propose that I continue with this micro without the light. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have just mentioned the decreasing trend in the figures. We also see this trend in the number of deaths, but of all the figures, that is without doubt the figure that will always be too high. The reproduction number is now 0.8, which means that a person is on average less infected than one other person. The GEES also uses other, more qualitative indicators to build a position, such as the availability of protective equipment for the care personnel, testing and tracing. The combination of all these elements determines whether we can move on to another phase. The reproduction number does indeed play a very important role, but that is not the only indicator. What is and remains very important is not only the general spread of the virus, but also our ability to manage it. Each time we ease the containment measures further, the risk of a flare-up increases. That is why it is very important that we continue to monitor the situation very closely, but also that everyone tries to respect the rules as closely as possible. As you know, yesterday, the NSC expanded to include Ministers-Presidents took the decision to initiate phase 2 of our deconfining plan from 18 May, always on the basis of expert advice. It concerns the resumption of the courses of certain pupils, the contact trades, the markets, the opening of zoological gardens or even sports training, all subject to strict conditions. As far as culture is concerned, since you are talking about it, you know that the cultural sector is a sector which, in essence, brings together and generates many exchanges. In a time when we are trying to limit contacts between different groups to the maximum, it must be admitted that the process of deconfining is more difficult to understand for this sector. It should also be noted that in this sector the activities are very diverse and the particular situations are multiple. Nevertheless, it was still possible, from 18 May onwards, to provide for the reopening of museums and so-called "cultural interest" infrastructures, subject to strict conditions. By infrastructure of cultural interest, we think of historical monuments or castles, citadels. At the federal level, as you said, we have already taken a number of steps in favour of artists, to provide them with a replacement income. We also worked on the tax shelter to adapt it to the exceptional conditions of the crisis. It is clear that other proposals and arrangements can be considered. Indeed, we know well that certain sectors – not only artists but also the Horeca and I will come there – are harder hit by this crisis and will probably be impacted more at length by the very essence of their activities. On Tuesday, an interdepartmental conference was held at the appeal of Minister Jan Jambon – while it is a community jurisdiction at first – which brought together the federated entities and the federal level. I wish to welcome this initiative. The aim was to take stock of the situation, to see what each entity and the federal level could already do in the context of this crisis, to think about the plan of deconfinement – a rather special task, as we know, of lace – that we must be able to understand in the best possible way. All this takes a little time. At this meeting, we also agreed to be able to adopt, or at any rate to discuss, other topics at future interdepartmental conferences, such as the status of artist particularly highlighted during this crisis. As they say, it's never too late to do well. As mentioned after the National Security Council, phase 2, which starts on 18 May, will be followed by several other phases. It will include elements of cultural and sporting life, as well as social life, tourism, events and creeds. Of course, catering activities will also occupy an important place in our thinking process regarding the gradual restart. The hospitality industry has been very badly affected by the crisis. This sector is not forgotten at all. We are committed to developing a detailed plan for them. We will also have to work on the organisation of the summer, for children and parents. We think specifically of the shelter, the youth camps, the summer activities but also of the play streets. In order to achieve this, we must strike a balance between the needs of children in order to be able to leave their bubble, the need for their parents to find shelter and the general health situation. As you see – and we will never repeat enough – deconfining is a particular exercise of delicate balances, which must bring together the aspirations of all to resume a normal life and the imperatives of the health crisis that we are experiencing. We work there day after day, the Regions, the Communities, the Federal, in team and in consultation with the local level. We are talking here about the decisions that we make, but they apply at the local level. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the mayors of our country for ensuring that all this happens in the best possible conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u8	Madam Prime Minister, I am pleased with your answer because you mention the categories of people who are still looking for perspective. I understand that the next meeting of the Security Council will be D-day for those groups that are still looking forward to prospecting for relaxation. For those children who cannot go to school yet, there may be more possible in June. There are also certain sectors that are affected by the crisis for a long time. For example, tourism, events and catering are sectors that do not know where they stand today. If we all take our responsibilities together and ensure that the reproduction rate remains low, then we can ensure that sectors such as the catering industry get a chance to start up again in June. The 80,000 people who make their living there can then get back to work. We look forward to evolution and hope that you will be able to bring good news within a few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u9	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for the answer. COVID-19 is like a runaway horse. One cannot keep the reins tight to control that horse, but if one celebrates them too quickly, the horse, or the virus, will run away again. You rightly said that we must be careful, and it must remain safe and healthy in any case. The choices you make for catering, events and tourism but especially for families, young people and vulnerable people are the right ones. We need to move forward gradually, in consultation and in small scale, so that we can have a viable summer for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u10	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I am delighted to hear that you appreciate the importance for the federal government of acting with its own levers to save the cultural sector and its artists. The perspective you have described is quite interesting. I think that if we reach a clear and optimal decision in the Federal Parliament on the status of artists, it will be a historic step forward, very positive for our political history. However, artists also need immediate answers to this crisis. I would like to remind you that our bill, which introduces an emergency fund, is on the agenda of next week's commission, the main theme of which is artists. Other texts are also on the agenda of this committee. In line with what you have just said, with the support you have just described for this sector, with what your President has said in the press, I hope that these texts, and ours in particular, will be able to obtain the support of your political formation. I think we need to work together in the committee next Tuesday to meet the expectations of the cultural sector. I would also like to remind you that the Horeca is on hold. You quoted it. The Ecolo-Groen Group has also made proposals and I hope that they will go as far as possible in the work of the committees. Indeed, the answers must be strong in view of the unprecedented crisis we are going through.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u11	Mr President, Minister, the aviation sector is one of the most affected sectors in the corona crisis. Everyone has noticed that there have been hardly any flights in Europe in recent weeks. Of course, this has very serious consequences, including for us, for the more than 4,000 employees of Brussels Airlines, who are in serious uncertainty. In short, if no rescue buoy is thrown at Brussels Airlines, that company may soon go bankrupt. We need to get everything out of the closet to avoid that. After all, this is not just about the 4,000 jobs at Brussels Airlines. Each of those jobs has a multiple of other jobs attached. Four to five times as many. This is because our national airport, Brussels Airport, is one of the most important economic growth poles in this country. That's where prosperity is created for all of us. It is therefore in the interests of all of us to ensure that Brussels Airlines does not crash. How will we do that? Above all, we should not send a blank cheque to the German shareholders. If taxpayers' money is put on the table, there must be a return on it for the people. Security of job retention, fair opportunities for sustainable growth in the future. And if profits are made, a fair share of them must be returned to the taxpayer. Over the last ten years, Lufthansa Group has distributed 1.6 billion euros of profits to its shareholders. It can't be the intention that profits continue to go there, but that in bad times the government has to come up with money. I come to my questions, Minister. If the news is correct, you'll see Lufthansa's top man tomorrow. What's your negotiating position? And above all, what are you trying to achieve tomorrow?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u12	Mr President, Minister, this Tuesday we learned of the restructuring that will shake Brussels Airlines with the loss of at least 1,000 jobs. According to some reports, the government is negotiating state aid with Lufthansa in the amount of €290 million. This is, of course, a delicate issue on which we must not be ideological, but pragmatic. In my view, there are three priorities. Firstly, maintaining quality employment in and around Brussels. The Zaventem airport concerns the three regions of our country in terms of employment. The second priority concerns the environmental conversion of the company's fleet in the medium term. This is an essential requirement in the context of our climate commitments, but also for the comfort of the overlying residents. The third priority concerns the European hub position, if Brussels wants to remain a European and diplomatic capital. Minister, we ask you to obtain written assurances on these three elements. In my view, it is only if we obtain clear and firm commitments on these elements that State aid can be envisaged. Our contractors wouldn't understand that we're giving Brussels Airlines a blank cheque, whereas if we're going to get any subsidies, we need to be able to show a business plan. I would also like to add that, according to the well-known formula, continuing to privatize profits at all costs and nationalize losses, as has sometimes been the case in the past, should no longer be an option. Therefore, Mr Minister, can you please let us know how much aid the Belgian State could provide? Do the figures quoted correspond to reality? What are the conditions imposed by Belgium for this aid to be granted? What are the prospects for a successful social recovery plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u13	Mr President, Madam Minister, as my colleagues have pointed out, Brussels Airlines has announced the elimination of 1,000 jobs in Belgium, TUI the abolition of 8,000 jobs worldwide and Ryanair, another 3,000 jobs. Unfortunately, more announcements are yet to come. Beyond airlines, people working at airports are also affected and threatened. In the midst of the crisis of the coronavirus, which is already a source of great concern, thousands of families are plunged into the most complete uncertainty. The sector is experiencing turbulence, to which we must respond. From the beginning, my party warned you that this health crisis should not turn into a social crisis. Workers must be protected. Moreover, in countries such as Italy or Spain, measures have been taken to prohibit dismissals. We have tabled a bill along the same lines. Minister, how will your government respond to the crisis in the aviation sector? What are the avenues explored? What steps are you going to take?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u14	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, last Tuesday was a black day for Belgian aviation. Thousands were fired from Brussels Airlines. Our first concern must go to as little as possible naked layoffs. It's a good thing you guys sat together with the unions on Tuesday to get that clear. However, colleagues must be aware that such a shrinkage scenario is inevitable as it is today. Corona is flooding the entire world economy, and certainly also the aviation sector. All companies within and outside Europe have the same problem, especially Brussels Airlines, which was already in the process of restructuring. That was already announced. The brave choices they had to make will now have to be made. A home carrier in Brussels is really needed, with all the companies that are based here and Brussels as the European capital. The government has considered releasing € 390 million to give Brussels Airlines a future. For the Open Vld Group, however, this can never be a blank cheque. The government should not necessarily become a shareholder. The Open Vld Group does want a credible business plan in exchange and wants further investments to be made at Brussels Airlines after the corona crisis. It is crucial that Brussels Airlines restructure, but it is also crucial that the 300 companies in the airport ecosystem continue to operate. These companies concern traders such as Aviapartner and Swissport, but also catering companies and small tourism agencies in every village street of the country. Mr Minister, Madam Minister, can you explain to Parliament again what guarantees you will ask for from Lufthansa's CEO tomorrow? In Germany Lufthansa also applied for State aid. Are there any discussions between the German Government and the Belgian Government about this? Other companies in aviation have also asked for aid. Will there be a global support plan in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u15	Minister, a few weeks ago you mentioned a number of criteria that are important when it comes to state aid to businesses. I suggest we check that out with Brussels Airlines. Your first criterion was: the decision-making power remains in our country. Brussels Airlines is a daughter of Lufthansa. All decisions are made in Berlin. The profits are being passed on to Berlin. The profits are not used to build a financial buffer. Last year more than EUR 1 billion was distributed to the shareholders. A few years ago they gained full control of Brussels Airlines from the Belgian State for an apple and an egg. However, if the crisis is, Mr De Croo may open his portfolio for up to 100 times more than what was paid a few years ago. That's unheard of. The second criterion was employment. Tomorrow, Lufthansa's CEO will be here to negotiate with you. On the eve of these negotiations, a thousand people will be thrown out. That man thinks this will have no effect on the results of the conversation. How cynical can one be? How arrogant can one be? A third criterion was a strategic company on sustainability and the fight against climate change. Aviation is one of the few sectors not included in the UN climate agreement. There is therefore little external pressure to reduce CO2 emissions. Minister, according to your own criteria, this is not such a wonderful candidate to receive support, while catering and culture are also begging for help. If the government were to decide to support the company, it is very important for our group that there should be firm guarantees for the employment and social conditions of the employees and that there should also be firm guarantees for a greater contribution to the fight against climate change. What conditions are important to you, Minister? Where do you set the bar?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a reduction of 25% by a thousand direct jobs disappearing and some long-distance flights. This is the plan of Brussels Airlines in exchange for 290 to 390 million Belgian State aid. Allow me to say, Minister, that I have a déjà vu. I haven't forgotten the whole Sabena story and the Swissairsaga, nor did Lufthansa get hold of the last 55% of the shares in 2017 for a bummer of 2.6 million euros. What did that sale get you? Obviously nothing. Today we are being cut short for state aid and we must address the taxpayer's portfolio here. You should never have sold Brussels Airlines abroad. In fact, you are always on your knees for false promises that are never honored. So the government sold out our jobs, jobs that are now under threat. The old Sabena is therefore a symbol of the operation of the Belgian State. Today, you're in the middle of a choice. Either the taxpayer has to pay so much money again to maintain employment, without knowing whether you can trust Lufthansa. In other words, Brussels Airlines' mispolicy will be paid for by the many thousands of people at risk of losing their jobs. You are looking towards Lufthansa, but in practice this government itself was the ghostwriter for what is happening here today. It's like a chronicle of an announced death. Minister, how strongly do you believe in the guarantees given by Brussels Airlines so that the government does not take over this time? What will you do to save the jobs? What will you say to the CEO of Lufthansa, Carsten Spohr, when he comes to Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u17	Mr President, Minister, you are the right man in the right place. No one better than you can know Sabena's history at the time. Your father was even a guardian minister in the 1980s. So you know very well that Sabena's story was a billion-dollar stream of state aid. Sabena has never been able to fly on her own wings without taxpayers' money. In 1995 the company was taken over by Swissair. In 2001, she went bankrupt anyway. Despite the dubious Astoria agreements of the Verhofstadt-Vande Lanotte government, there was a hole in the cash and 893 million euros disappeared. Then what happened? The company could go to KLM, but that was not done by the French-speaking lobby. La Belgique à dad founded SN with 150 million euros and again 125 million euros from the Belgian State. However, the airline could not fly on its own wings. In 2008 we go to the Germans. 45 percent will be sold for 60 million euros with the promise that the other 45% will be sold for 250 million euros. That amount could not be paid until later. It was sold for 2.6 million euros. Lufthansa has in fact taken over SN for EUR 67.6 million. Lufthansa made 16 billion euros profit; SN made 236 million euros loss. Today they come to beg. She, a wholly German firm, comes to our taxpayers to ask if he does not have EUR 190 million in cash to save her. That's over with the shame. We must give EUR 290 million state aid to a foreign company. Mr. Secretary, what will it be? Will you provide State aid? Will you give subsidies or will it be a loan? Are there any guarantees involved? What are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Minister, we are concerned. We are very concerned about the aviation dossier. I am deliberately talking about the airport file, because it is about much more than just Brussels Airlines. It is about an entire ecosystem, and Mr Vandenput has already referred to it, namely the entire ecosystem of the airport and everything that is hanging there. The airport is the second most important economic gate in our country. We cannot and must not underestimate the importance of this gateway for prosperity but also for the well-being of the people employed there. A restructuring plan was presented this week with consequences for immediately 1,000 staff. That's very hard on you. We see it happening all over the world: aviation is having a hard time in these times. The trade unions were immediately received by the relevant ministers. We are counting on as much employment as possible in the context of the procedure of the Renault Act. Long-term sustainable employment will only be possible if there is a sustainable future for the airport and a good home carrier. We believe that Brussels Airlines should remain able to do so. This is now being looked at by the government, but we are also a little concerned about this. After all, we are all responsible for the proper use of resources, so we need to combine the necessary guarantees to ensure maximum employment, for an economically sustainable future, for a sustainable environment and for the climate. In this way, such a rescue operation does not have to be ruled out, but that link is important. If we can properly negotiate this link with the stated objectives in mind, we can invest in the sustainable survival of the airport and the home carrier, which benefits everyone, the people who work there, the people in the area and the whole country. Minister, Brussels Airlines presented its restructuring plan and its business plan this week. It was also explained to the government after the works council. Is it a business plan of Brussels Airlines, Lufthansa or both? What's its statute?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u19	Mr Van den Bergh, you have some time left, but you really need to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u20	Mr President, if you'll excuse me. Synergies and cost-efficiency could be achieved under Lufthansa. To what extent has Brussels Airlines managed to achieve better performance thanks to these synergies? For the future of the airport, it is important that the airport is also involved in the entire negotiation operation. What guarantees will be on the table and how will they be enforced? Finally, I would like to come back to the European story, but I will quote this in my reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u21	Watch your time, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u22	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, although expected, Brussels Airlines' announcement hurts: a thousand fewer jobs, a 30% reduction in the fleet, a reduced destination service and wage efforts for all staff. When we hear that Brussels Airlines loses a million euros a day, we are obviously worried about the future. But, it seems to me, the question is, above all, Lufthansa's attitude, the parent company, in this case. On the one hand, she keeps asking for more. From €200 million, state aid has now increased to €290 million. On the other hand, it refuses a State to include a board of directors. So we don't know where we're going and we're worried about the future. Negotiations have not even been completed for Brussels Airlines to announce its restructuring plan. We wonder what's behind this strategy. You have already announced that there would be credible requests for guarantees not only on the maintenance of the business but also on a real plan of the future for Brussels Airlines. We need to know that the whole sector is at stake today. As the CEO of Brussels airport pointed out, a job lost at Brussels Airlines is at least two less jobs at the airport. In addition, TUI announces the elimination of 8,000 jobs. Similarly, Ryanair foresees job losses. What are the possible scenarios? How will you handle the shock? Indeed, we will have to be strong in the face of the ongoing negotiations. A meeting will take place tomorrow. It is the future of the entire Brussels economic sector and the Brussels airport hub that are at stake. Will there be any other requests for assistance than TUI's? What details can you give us?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u23	Mr President, Brussels Airlines has decided to dismiss 1000 workers. A thousand jobs are a thousand families. First of all, on behalf of my group, I would like to convey our full support to the workers and their trade union organisations who are struggling for their employment and working conditions. Again this morning, Maria, my colleague who worked at the Sabena in this airport, explained to me that one of her colleagues was not sleeping at night and that she would probably have to sell her house. A thousand jobs are a thousand families, not to mention the domino effect, as Brussels Airlines accounts for 40% of the airport, the other workers will also have repercussions: fewer bag operators, fewer security personnel, fewer staff at the check-in. A lost job is considered to result in the loss of two indirect jobs. This means 3,000 jobs, i.e. 3,000 families. I don't know if we're well aware! This is for those who would eventually lose their jobs. Then there are those who stay there. The plan is already clear for management: a reduction of 8% for part of the staff, a reduction of 30% in night pay, an increase in contracts without additional remuneration. All this for what? To generate an additional productivity of 8%. They're announcing it without hindrance. What an arrogance! Lufthansa comes with his plan even before the discussion with the government. It is asking for €290 million while it has bought the case for €67 million. Do I have to remind you that the main shareholder is constantly increasing his wealth and that the group has made a profit of nine billion over five years? Minister, I have two questions. Will you, tomorrow at this meeting, be firm and say that you will not enter into a discussion until there is a guarantee on the maintenance of jobs? Do you not think, Mr Minister, that we need an airline and that we must seriously consider nationalizing Brussels Airlines and its airport?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u24	Mr President, Madam Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, there is concern in the aviation sector and in the Brussels Airlines community. Of course I want to talk about his workers, but also about all the people whose jobs depend on them indirectly. Their concerns relate to their short-term future and employment, as well as the medium- and long-term sustainability of the company. You met the Brussels Airlines unions. What support did you give them? Is the intervention of a social conciliator planned? In addition, we learned that you were negotiating with the company some €290 million or even €390 million in aid. The big question is whether it is legitimate. For this reason, I would like to ask you three, which are very specific. First of all, does Brussels Airlines have a business plan that can keep the road going, so that it can develop in the medium term in a viable, profitable and innovative way and also become competitive in a sector that is overcapacity? Secondly, is the company able to transform itself to meet the strict environmental requirements that are required of us and to become compatible with climate issues, but also with respect for the health of citizens – in particular, with regard to the health of people who are flying over? Finally, is the government sure that it can control Lufthansa's choices about Brussels Airlines? In other words, will it be Lufthansa's first or last priority? These are three fundamental questions, to which – before any decision is taken – your government must give serious answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u25	Mr President, Minister, the airport community in Flemish Brabant has experienced a great deal in recent years. We knew Sabena's bankruptcy 20 years ago, and I am pleased that Mr Dedecker has brought the figures. That was not a nice operation, and we must learn from it. We also had the story of DHL, with the move to Leipzig. The cargo has recovered, our airport has recovered. The cargo runs fantastic, just like DHL, by the way. Then we had the attacks a few years ago. Minister, we attended the reopening of the large hall together with the government, of which I was still a member. That was a wonderful moment. The airport community has recovered. Last year was an incredible farm year for our airport. Every month we broke records in terms of cargo, passengers and sales. Now we have the corona crisis, which chops deeply into it. Here too, our airport community will recover, on one condition, that it may continue to play in first class. If she plays in first class, this means that she remains a member of the Star Alliance Group, that we can continue to guarantee that interconnectivity, that we can continue to guarantee that we have a home carrier worthy of that name. That's Brussels Airlines. There's a lot to be said for that. We should not be naive, but we do want society to have a fair chance. We do not want state aid, we do not want Sabena bis. However, if we are talking about loans to survive this crisis that have to be repaid afterwards, then we can go along with it. Minister, what is the negotiating position? Let them be as loud as you can. Don't let them be.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u26	Mr President, thank you for agreeing to move me in the order of passage. I was stuck on the highway. Minister, we are talking about 1,000 jobs. First of all, on behalf of my group, I would like to show our solidarity with these Brussels Airlines workers and their families, as well as with all the workers currently in difficulty. It was known that the VOCID-19 had a huge impact on the air sector, but it was not imagined that one of the largest airlines in the world would behave in such a brutal manner, announcing the dismissal of 1,000 workers without even having started a discussion with the Belgian State. One cannot believe that an airline of the magnitude of Lufthansa's spear in such a heinous blackmail. In order to save employment, Belgium should therefore issue a cheque of 290 million euros unconditionally. It would be to take it or to leave it. For the Socialist Party, there is no question of giving a blank cheque to the German company. The job must be saved, but the German company must not be flattened out. If Belgium can consider an intervention, it must be conditional on an equity stake in Brussels Airlines amounting to 25% plus one share, in order to hold a blocking minority. For us, it is essential that the Belgian State be involved in Brussels Airlines' strategic decisions in the future in the event of aid. Minister, we are at a key moment to rethink the world of tomorrow: a fairer, more humane, more supportive and greener world. For too long, the deregulated development of the aviation sector has become synonymous with a general deterioration in the quality of employment and a growing impact on our planet. It is time for the state and Europe to prepare for the right and sustainable transition for the sector, particularly in the context of the European Green Deal. As politicians, we must no longer stay on the balcony. Minister, have you had any contact with Angela Merkel about these negotiations? Will you require a sufficient shareholding in Brussels Airlines' capital? What priority could Belgium develop in the event of a sufficient shareholding in the company's capital in terms of social and environmental issues? Do you have an idea of the social and economic impacts on all actors in the aviation and trade sectors (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u27	Mr President, I would like to join all those who have expressed their support for the many Brussels Airlines staff who are in absolute uncertainty today. We have received the trade unions together with Mr Muylle and the Prime Minister on Tuesday afternoon, and we absolutely share the ambition to reduce the number of redundancies as much as possible. Moreover, the social negotiations begin tomorrow. My colleague from Work will be giving details about the social part in the future. For my part, I consider it essential that the company invest in all workers who have to leave the company. This is part of the framework of the Renault law, but I think it is also an obligation for all public authorities to invest as much as possible in favour of those people who have to leave the company. The watchword is to invest in human resources, training and opportunities for people who will have to leave Brussels Airlines. It is hoped that their number will be kept to a minimum. There is a great deal of demand from Brussels Airlines staff. What is being asked of them today is absolutely not evident. I believe that it is only possible if they are given a very clear future perspective. It would not be about asking them so much effort, but at the same time not giving any perspective on what their job might look like in the company. That brings me to the many questions about possible support. In my view, this could only be possible if there was a very clear framework. I'm trying to summarize that framework. It should be based on a credible business or business plan, with strong commitments to achieve profitable growth that is environmentally sound. Profitability, in my view, is an absolutely necessary condition. We will not be able to give the thousands of workers a perspective if the company cannot be financially sustainable at some point. Moreover, environmental sustainability is linked to financial sustainability. If aid were granted to Brussels Airlines, this would go beyond the sole interest of Brussels Airlines. As a national carrier and network company, Brussels Airlines is the key element of an air cluster – many have already talked about it – around Zaventem, a cluster that is crucial. It is the second largest economic hub in our country. We are talking about 60,000 jobs, if we add the indirect jobs that are related to this airport activity. Ensuring connectivity with the rest of Europe and with the world: everyone will recognize that, for a country like Belgium, with the position held in the world, this connectivity is essential. And for a small, open, export-dependent economy, having an important aviation hub is necessary for all companies, even for SMEs. However, it is essential that the management of Brussels Airlines, as well as the German parent company, fully engage in a plan for the future. This is the responsibility of the latter. Brussels Airlines is no longer a Belgian company. It is essentially a German company and, on the basis of decisions going back to 2008, it is part of a German group. That complicates the situation. What happens to Brussels Airlines also depends on the situation and the future prospects of the German parent company, which itself is negotiating with the German government. The question we are addressing here is not just a Belgian question. That is why I am in close contact with my counterpart, the German Finance Minister. The discussions we are conducting are also very important in terms of the Belgian perspective. Tomorrow, together with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Work, Nathalie Muylle, I will see the CEO of the German parent company. I am sure that during that discussion we will express the voice of many from Parliament. Not only do we want a clear future plan for this undertaking, but I think I have also indicated what the elements of a future plan should be. It will also be necessary to clarify the situation and commitment of the German parent company. Tomorrow's discussion with Mr Spohr is therefore a first important one, and I assume that it will not be the last one.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last Tuesday the company announced the restructuring, which formally means that a file must be sent to the VDAB of the place where the company is located. That has happened effectively. The file will be delivered immediately to the federal government, to the FOD WASO. That also happened on Tuesday. This brought into force the first step of the Renault Act, namely the announcement of the intention to restructure and inform employees. The announcement submitted to us concerns 950 employees. Ladies and gentlemen, we naturally regret this announcement, and we will ensure that all the next stages of the Renault Act continue in a good way. During the consultation phase, social dialogue between trade unions and employers is to be initiated. The aim of the social dialogue is twofold, in particular a possible reduction in the number of redundancies and, at the same time, the introduction of additional measures for workers who are still being made redundant. We would also like to point out that a mediator can always be made available. This hasn't happened in the company's proceedings today. In accordance with the Renault law, the final phase will consist of notification of collective redundancies. Last Tuesday, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and I had a meeting with the Brussels Airlines unions, and this morning we met with the management. It is clear from the discussions we have had that all parties intend to finalize quickly the restructuring which is due to take place at the end of May. In any case, we will ensure that sufficient guarantees are obtained to ensure that the social dialogue is respected, hoping that the loss of jobs can be further reduced. Last week's discussions show the good will of both parties to apply the Renault Act correctly and to work together to find solutions to reduce the number of redundancies and to develop additional measures for those who are still being made redundant. For me, as Minister of Work, in addition to the application of the Renault Act, sustainable job creation and long-term job retention is also important for a company that today has more than 3,000 temporary unemployed. We hope to get the necessary guarantees in the discussion with the management tomorrow and an answer to the questions about the temporary unemployed and what about the restart.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u29	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answers. Indeed, Minister, there is no point in giving support unless there is a clear future perspective. First of all, Brussels Airlines' employees deserve certainty about maintaining their jobs in the future, including the many thousands of others whose jobs depend on them, and the taxpayers. The taxpayer must be able to count on a fair share of future revenues. Indeed, this is only possible if Brussels Airlines has all the opportunities for sustainable growth in the future. Sustainable also means that growth is, of course, ecologically sound.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u30	Minister, Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answers. I take note of your commitment to try to limit the social damage to this Brussels Airlines decision as strongly as possible, and thank you for that. Thanks also for reminding us of the importance of the connectivity of the airport and this company with Europe, but also with the world, and especially with Africa. We tend to forget it. For the rest, I believe that many of us will follow your journey tomorrow and these suites. I really encourage you not to give up anything without guarantees and without possibility for Belgium to really be able to intervene on the company's future strategic decisions, with an assured activity on Belgian soil.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u31	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. I cannot, of course, help but think of these workers and those 3,000 families who, today, in the particular context we are experiencing, face new difficulties. I don't think there should be a social bloodbath. Companies must be helped to maintain their profits, but jobs must be preserved. I was glad to hear that you are going to focus on social dialogue and dialogue to save all those jobs that are important to all these families. These workers must now be protected but also be better valued.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u32	Madam Minister, Minister, thank you for the clear answers. The first priority is effective as little direct redundancies as possible. However, Belgium is also an import and export country and our companies need an international airport to import and export goods and services. Our airport forms the ecosystem for 300 companies and if a few large companies start to falter or disappear there, it will have an impact on all other companies. That is why it is important for Brussels Airlines to become an important player in the market. However, this can only be done if there is a realistic economic and environmental growth plan on the table. This must come from Brussels Airlines but also from Lufthansa and for us it can be a push in the back of the Belgian State. Madam Minister, Minister, I wish you every success in your negotiations with Lufthansa's CEO tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u33	Minister, it will undoubtedly not be easy negotiations and public support to Brussels Airlines is not evident. If, however, the government decides to support it, I repeat here the absolute conditions for our group. They're social and green. We want firm guarantees for the employees. A thousand families got the lid on last week and many other employees want to be forced to turn in. This is going to be a social massacre, and we cannot approve of it at all. Those people need all the support they can get. Secondly, we finally want a fair contribution from the aviation sector to that other global battle, which we are engaged in and which has not disappeared, because the corona crisis has been added. I am referring, of course, to the fight against climate change. I'd like to give you some inspiration for this. We are thinking of replacing short-haul flights with more sustainable alternatives, excise duties on kerosene and VAT on a plane ticket just like on a train ticket. Minister, perhaps you yourself have some ideas about this, which you can take with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u34	Madam Minister, Minister, I do not need to remind you what the name Sabena stood for. That was such a bad experience never again. You're doing the same thing as your predecessors. Belgian history repeats itself. Here you are now, swindled at your own sale for a bummer abroad. Sabena and later Brussels Airlines have never been properly governed. What you see as a crown jewel, Mr De Croo, is still a romantic example of neo-Belgism. Let us hope that you and Mr Spohr are on the right track. I'm counting on Lufthansa's steel-hard guarantees. The commitments you are talking about seem a little too non-binding to me. I'm counting on you to do everything you can to save the many thousands of jobs. I want you to shake the tree and don't let yourself roll over for some empty promises this time. What we need is a modern, performing society, with real guarantees for this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u35	Mr. Secretary, you face a difficult choice in this time of Corona. You must choose between the plague and the cholera. The plague is that we have to fire everyone. If everyone is to be fired and you do not give money, remember that, after 11,463 Sabena staff were on the rocks in 2001 and 53 aircraft were chained up, the airport has recovered, as Mr Francken pointed out. If you choose the cholera and give money, do not give state support. If you give a loan, I advise you not to ask for guarantees, but damages clauses, from a foreign partner who has already betrayed us. I would like to hear you say that we must give money to healthy companies and that we must save companies with a future. In principle, this cannot be said about Brussels Airlines. You used a boltade about the catering business. I won't rub it in you. It is better to give EUR 290 million to the catering industry than to a foreign firm if there are no guarantees that taxpayers will get that money back. I wish you luck tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u36	Madam Minister, Minister, thank you for the answers, although they cannot remove all our concerns. We are counting on very hard negotiations in the coming days on a sustainable future for the airport and for its home carrier Brussels Airlines. That future is important for our country and for the region. I'd like to give you the following. Almost all European countries and European airlines face similar problems today. Negotiations are under way with Member States to keep airlines on their feet. We are faced with the choice between a race to the bottom and a sustainable future for aviation. In this respect, Belgium can put something on the table of the European consultative bodies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u37	Thank you for your answers. We must be clear: if there is aid, there is no question that the Belgian State has no say in Brussels Airlines' future redeployment strategy. We need guarantees for the future and a clear strategy. Belgium's place at the European level is at stake. We're a strategic pole. It must be maintained, it is extremely important. But there are also thousands of jobs that depend on it. I can therefore only invite you to maintain an extremely firm position in the negotiations tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u38	For us, it is clear: it is out of the question that public money is used to lay off people and to degrade their working and pay conditions. Of course, your answers do not reassure us at all. You accept in fact that shareholders who put their pockets on them with billions of profits are now asking workers to tighten their belts. You didn't say anything about the scandalous attitude of this society. The question is, who's running in this country? You have the opportunity to put pressure on this company, and you are not going to do so. This is outrageous! We need to look to the future instead of kneeling down. That is why we are putting the possibility of nationalisation on the table. We urgently call for a meeting of the combined committees of Infrastructure and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u39	Thank you for your answers. Your first responsibility is to support all the workers involved, and to ensure that the Renault law is strictly respected, including in the area of an alternative plan to limit the number of dismissals. Your responsibility is also to ensure that social dialogue is respected, if necessary with the support of social conciliators, and that a social plan worthy of that name is put on the table. I come to the hundreds of millions of euros that would be brought to Lufthansa. The question of legitimacy remains full and complete. You do not have any guarantees at this stage, either economically, socially or environmentally. No long-term guarantees, no guarantees on decision-making capabilities, no guarantees that Brussels Airlines is not one of Lufthansa's top priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. We can make an appointment. You will ensure that we keep a first-class ticket without BAS or Footballbonddeliberation, a real first-class ticket with our airport and airport cluster in Zaventem. We, Brabanders, will ensure that we also survive this crisis, because that is what we have been doing for years. Also look at the rescue of KBC a few years ago. It was about loans and not about participation. We got those loans repaid and received another nice dividend. That company did not happen to have its head office in Flemish Brabant either. Make that appointment hard, and I wish you luck tomorrow. You don't give a blank cheque. Listen to what colleagues think is important, namely a green, social and sustainable airline. But make sure that we keep that first class ticket with our airport in Zaventem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u41	Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. It will be necessary to be firm on the principles and constructive on the methodology. Employment, governance and increased climate commitments are essential and are the intangible basis for any discussion. Lufthansa will have to respect the hand stretched by the Belgian state and agree to take this new turn which I have already heard you call for, Minister. We need guarantees. Go get them! Now is the time to move from speech to action.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u42	Then we have come to the end of the questions about Brussels Airlines. Madam Minister, Minister, I wish you every success with Mr Spohr.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u43	Mr President, Minister, our country is slowly waking up from the lockdown. Many companies have restarted, the shops are open again and from next week the schools will start again. That should not make us forget that during the lockdown a lot of people kept working, often much harder than usual, often really in the front line of this corona crisis. I am thinking first and foremost of the care staff, the shopkeepers, the postmen, the security people and so many others. For all those people there was applause, but that's beginning to slow down. The new normal is coming in. These people deserve more than applause anyway, they deserve respect after the crisis. Respect in the form of better working conditions, respect in the form of a better wage. Applause is nice, but with applause our heroes don't buy food. That is why our party has called for a solidarity bonus. You have already put forward concrete proposals for this, Minister. You talked about 1,000 euros and a few extra vacation days for all those who have been in the front line and have continued to work. But it's been quiet about that for a few weeks. Together with the applause, the promise of a solidarity bonus seems to disappear. My question is therefore very simple, Minister: what is the state of play and when will the premium be?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u44	Madam President, the situation today is indeed encouraging thanks to the efforts of many. Of course, we think in the first place about who works in the care, on the bed, and in supporting functions, but actually it concerns everyone who has continued to work when allowed. Many wanted to work and show solidarity, but were in sectors where that was not possible. In the name of many, I can say that we have a great deal of respect for the unspoiled commitment of many, sometimes at risk for their own health. As Minister of Finance, I am strictly responsible for the defiscalisation of, for example, a possible premium. I can confirm here that I would be absolutely prepared to exempt such a premium from taxation. Through Parliament, a proposal to exempt overtime in critical sectors is on the table. It covers 120 hours in critical sectors until June 2020. Taxation is not part of the powers of attorney. So Parliament can send these kinds of measures along with it. I would also like to refer to the Minister of Health Maggie De Block. She said on the committee that something must be done for people in hospitals. I endorse that. Besides, it's not just about hospitals. Care workers also work in many other sectors. It is not just about the federal government, but also about regional authorities and even local authorities. The Minister for Health has also said that there must be a sufficiently broad assessment. There are several ways in which appreciation can be shown and future prospects given to those working in care. They have shown a great deal of resilience over the past few weeks. Finally, I would like to stress that caring for everyone working in care is absolutely my priority. I am sure that this should be a commitment of many in this Parliament. I hope that this can also be put into practice in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but in fact you are not answering my question. All our heroes today expect no words but deeds and no empty promises. As you yourself say, despite the difficult period, they have continued to work, despite the fact that they did not always have the appropriate protective equipment, they have continued to work and, despite the consequences for their own family situation, they have continued to work. So if we can talk about restarting and easing today, it is thanks to them. Minister, I did not hear you specifically say when the premium will come, so I assume that there is a broad consensus to go for the solidarity premium. So I suggest that you draw up a draft and come to the Chamber with it. Let us discuss this. I'm sure there's a broad consensus on that. After all, a government cannot confine itself to applause; a government must invest in the heroes that have held our country right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u46	Mr Minister, if I ask you today, it is because I think you have responded badly to the requests made on this subject in committee. On 13 May, you received a very clear mandate from the National Security Council, which, in its point e, sought to find the material agreements necessary to allow the gradual opening of our borders, and in particular by respecting what the European Union is advocating in this regard. Three elements must therefore be taken into account, according to the European Union, including the fact that one can as a country have a differentiated approach according to the geography of the country and its epidemiological situation. If, in a border region, epidemiological situations are similar, it is quite possible to open borders. Minister, you were supposed to put these material agreements in place. I would like to know where your contacts are with your counterparts in the Netherlands' Home Affairs, Germany and Luxembourg. These countries have never closed their borders with Belgium. Have you already obtained the necessary authorizations to proceed with this opening? These physical controls at our borders are difficult for our citizens, sometimes for economic reasons, and others, for family reasons, are even worse off. It also gives an outdated image of Belgium, the centre of the European Union, and of our diplomatic relations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u47	Mrs Jadin, your question of lifting restrictions on the internal and external borders of the Union is currently the subject of a European consultation. As such, the European Commission announced on Monday that it had decided to recommend to the Member States that restrictive measures at the external borders should be extended until 15 June. The majority of them have also taken steps to limit travel among themselves. Yesterday, the Commission issued a communication on the lifting of measures at internal borders, as well as the revival of the transport and tourism sectors. In this context, it wanted to provide a framework for Member States, through which they can decide in a coordinated manner to phase out travel restrictions in their countries. As far as ours is concerned, the National Security Council confirmed yesterday that non-essential travel to and from our country will be prohibited until at least 8 June. The transport of goods and journeys motivated by urgent professional or family reasons are nevertheless allowed, while those who pursue a tourist objective are not so until further notice. With regard to a further relaxation, the Group of Experts in charge of exit strategy (GEES) will provide an opinion to the National Security Council. The basic principle is that the lifting of restrictions must be gradual both geographically and in terms of purpose and to the extent that the epidemiological situation permits. It must therefore be possible to lift restrictions between neighbouring countries where their situation is comparable and measures taken to reduce the risk of contamination are of the same level. This Monday again, the French Minister of the Interior, my counterpart Christophe Castaner, announced that France would continue its border controls until October of this year. I remain in contact weekly with my European counterparts in charge of Home Affairs, particularly those from neighbouring countries: Mr Castaner, Mrs Patel (for the United Kingdom), Mrs Bofferding (for the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg), Mr Seehofer (for Germany) and also my Dutch colleague. All share the same concern. Finally, I will be participating in a video conference tomorrow on this issue. A decision on this should ideally be taken within ten days. However, discussions between Member States and with our neighbours still need to be conducted on the many conditions. The National Security Council must also discuss the matter on the basis of a sound scientific opinion from the GEES. The removal of in-depth controls would be a very radical step. If we decide to remove them at all our borders, we have to be pretty sure that the virus will no longer be able to catch up with us. We must therefore make a double balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u48	Minister, have you listened to me? Did you listen to what I just explained? I hear, but I do not agree with your analysis of what Mrs Vestager has said at European Union level. Germany applies it: it will open its borders with Luxembourg and Denmark. It will not do so with other countries, in particular France, considering it unable to do so. She never closed her border with Belgium. It is quite possible to otherwise manage this harmonious approach that you are advocating at the level of the whole Belgian territory, including by respecting the European provisions in this field. It is called upon by the National Security Council. That is why contacts had to be made. I know you have the necessary authorizations, especially from some of your counterparts, to move forward on this issue. I would like, on behalf of all those who are waiting for an encouraging message, to be much clearer than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u49	Mr President, Madam Minister, do you have any idea what the hospital staff working in the field think of you and your policy? Have you thought about what the people in the hospitals really think about you and your politics? I'll tell you. I've received an explosion of discontent from all this staff. Nurses, nurses, caregivers, doctors, cleaning staff in hospitals, all have this point in common: they are in total conflict with Maggie De Block's policy. They're our heroes. Those are the ones we applaud every night at 8:00 p.m. Every night at 8:00 a.m., they get a round of applause. What do they get from you, Madam Secretary? No applause, no budget, no resources. More serious, after the worst crisis they have experienced, after all the energy they have given and the extra hours they have worked, you decide to put on the table a royal decree that imposes the requisition of hospital staff. It's a mandatory claim. There is a second royal decree which obliges nursing assistants to carry out nursing acts for which they have not been trained and for which they are not paid. Moreover, if there is a problem, they are individually responsible. How could you make such a decision? And you didn't even make it by yourself because this decision comes from the super kern. This was decided by the ten parties: MR, Vld, cdH, CD&V, Ecolo, Groen, PS, sp.a, DéFI, N-VA. Everyone agreed to the requisition. How can you make such a decision? How is that possible? They've already given everything on the premises. Minister, I'm asking you the question. Will you withdraw this royal decree and negotiate with the sector and not with a royal decree of special powers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u50	Mr President, Mr Hedebouw, I know you are making a show of everything. I think this is certainly inappropriate in this case. We are in constant consultation with the care providers and their representatives. We have taken a number of measures to protect them from the collapse of our care system or, in other words, to put them in a situation where they could not take care of enough patients. We have prepared a good distribution plan, we have taken supportive measures, we have organized triage centers on the first line to relieve the hospitals. We also did a lot of remote consultations, via video or by telephone, which was necessary to avoid the physical proximity of caregivers when they did not need to. We have also tested many healthcare professionals for the presence of the coronavirus. There has been a number of financial efforts such as exempting social and tax contributions for extra overtime in the care sector. We have increased the fees of home nurses so that they could invest extra time per patient, and have given them protective equipment. We have also made sure that they have access to mental health care, which is important: there is a lot of pressure on the people in the front line. Now with less than 2,000 people in the COVID places, we are getting a little bit of oxygen in our hospitals, and it is only now that people there are starting to feel the fatigue and the awareness of not being able to deal with it again. We're doing everything we can to avoid a second wave, but we know this may not be possible. The decision on the claim was made precisely in order for them to be able to help. I do not want it to come to that in the residential care centres in Brussels and Wallonia, where the army has had to be deployed. The claim concerns doctors and nurses who are now employed by sickness funds and occupational health services. They could, under a number of conditions, be called upon to assist our nurses and healthcare professionals in the hospitals. After all, the army will be unable to help all our hospitals. That is the purpose of the decision and that was well explained to the representatives and trade unions. Leave your games, Mr. Hedebouw. We're talking about protecting those people while you're pretending we're gonna claim them. No, we will relieve sick nurses and sick caregivers and people who are no longer comfortable playing in the second wave, by claiming people who otherwise are technically unemployed at home or are not on assignment. That is the point, Mr Hedebouw. I've gladly explained it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u51	Madam Secretary, I'm sorry about this. You know that in recent weeks all these nurses have also had to work in the people's home, and that compulsory recovery was really not necessary. Madam Secretary, I have listened to you, perhaps you could also listen to me? You should also listen to what the sector itself says. There has been no consultation with the sector. They are royal decrees of special powers that are taken to give you the exclusive power to decide to go and requisition them. Why didn't you talk to the sector? It's a hyper-generous sector. He demonstrated to everyone that he was prepared to do more than effort. What was the point, ladies and gentlemen, in having a royal decree allowing this compulsory requisition? Seriously! What signal is sent to the area? Even the staff of the other units have been working in the VOCID-19 units, Minister! If you had looked at the field a little bit, you would have seen that good will was there and there was no need to take this royal decree. Furthermore, it is also very serious to oblige nursing assistants to carry out nursing acts with individual responsibility. It's very serious because you're not protecting them. But you know very well that in the hospital, we'll tell them, "You're doing that shot." And who will be responsible for any problems? It'll be the caregiver who did it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am telling you this clearly. These two royal decrees were not necessary. The government can still withdraw them to give way to genuine negotiations that respect the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u52	Mr. Chair, Minister, VOCID-19 was quickly recognized as an occupational disease for caregivers, but it is clear that many more workers, not just caregivers, are at risk of contracting VOCID-19 at their workplace. I mean, for example, Mohamed, a worker from Colruyt who even died. With the PTB, we quickly put on the table a bill to broaden the criteria for recognition of this occupational disease. This is very important for three reasons. First, this recognition allows 100% reimbursement of all medical expenses. Secondly, it allows the wage to be maintained at 90%. Thirdly, occupational sickness benefits are paid by employers and not by social security, which also makes them responsible. This morning, we learned that a positive opinion was issued by the Federal Occupational Hazards Agency to broaden the criteria for recognition of occupational disease. Like the victory of the White Blouse Fund, it is also a victory for the workers. We see how a PTB proposal with pressure from the ground allows for progress in the fight for workers' rights. Minister, I have several questions about this. Are you going to give effect to this positive opinion? This Saturday, can we expect a royal decree extending the criteria for recognition of VOCID-19 as an occupational disease? In this notice, we have seen that it is planned to recognize VOCID-19 as an occupational disease for workers suffering until May 18. But it is obvious that even beyond that date, as long as the virus circulates in the population and in the workplace, people can contract VOCID-19 by going to work. Are you going to stick to the restrictive interpretation that would only indicate the essential sectors, or are you going to expand to all sectors?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u53	Mr President, Mrs Merckx, an occupational disease, it is a disease you are catching because you have done your job. It is not a disease that occurs during the occupation. If one has it, it is covered by social security, but it is not necessarily an occupational disease. The employer must take precautions to prevent a person from being infected during the course of his occupation. During this crisis, it is obvious that there is an acute risk for certain professions because they are more frequently in contact with the virus. We have therefore taken several initiatives. In particular, the VOCID-19 committee of FEDRIS has been responsible for certain functions and services, for which VOCID-19 can be recognized as an occupational disease. I sent a letter to the Management Committee on 22 April asking if there were any other professions to be added to the list. Yesterday, the Administrative Committee considered this request on the basis of a note from the Administration. A system for recognition as an occupational disease has been proposed for certain employees in crucial and essential sectors that have continued their professional activities without the possibility of teleworking or being able to respect social distances. All this applies in accordance with the main principles applicable to occupational diseases, in particular the following. The risk must be higher in relation to the rest, in the exercise of their profession, and in relation to the rest of the population. I'm still waiting for the official advice, but I already know it's a positive advice. Then, together with the Fedris administration, we will examine how this can be carried out. So we will continue to work on it, Mrs Merckx.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u54	Mr President, Minister, it is an effective victory that we are seeing an enlargement today and that not only the care providers but also other people can benefit from the recognition of COOVID-19 as an occupational disease. I heard different stories. I recently heard the story of a Colruyt shop in Kuurne, where more than ten employees are infected and everyone is quarantined. I have also received a number of testimonies from people who tell me about a small production company where no 1.5 meter distance is kept. There are a lot of testimonies from employees who are risking their health today. The PVDA therefore expects you to make the recognition concrete. We will continue to defend our legislative proposal here in the Chamber that goes beyond what is on the table today. We really want everyone at work at risk of infection to be able to get the recognition of occupational disease.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u55	Mr President, Minister, at the start of the corona crisis, many economic sectors had to stop their activities in the interests of public health. Everyone was and is convinced that the government had to act very decisively at that time and take measures very quickly to support our companies and our self-employed. Unfortunately, in the meantime, a lot of stories have emerged about the misuse of these aid measures. These are the kind of stories that threaten to undermine the basis for support for our companies. One of the measures taken is to postpone payment of social security contributions. Anyone who had to close was automatically delayed until 15 December 2020. Whoever voluntarily closed his doors can ask for that postponement with no more than a statement of honor. We all know that a declaration of honour is often the Achilles heel when it comes to the fraud-proofing of aid measures. An adequate control can bring relief here. The measure of deferment of payment entered into force on 20 March 2020. Only two days ago, the royal decree was published in the Belgian Official Journal. It is an interesting piece of work, in which, among other things, it also says how it will be checked. We read that this control happens afterwards. Whether a company effectively closed its doors in April will be checked after that company has been reopened. That's the same as checking a motorist for wearing his seatbelt yesterday. It sounds absurd, but apparently you don't think so. In addition, it is enough to declare honour that one day has been closed in order to obtain that postponement of payment until 15 December. There's absolutely no way to check that. Madam Minister, you will not be surprised that I have some questions about this. First of all, how can you check by holding a motorist today if he was wearing his seat belt yesterday? Secondly, what instructions were given to the auditors and inspectors of the RSZ in the meantime to check? Thirdly, how many companies requested deferment of payment by a declaration of honour?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u56	Mr President, Mr Anseuw, I think you are rather simplistic. Our social inspection does have more resources to carry out checks than simply checking whether the door is open or whether the light is cut. The social inspection can also be proactive. In addition, you may take note of the fact that statements of honour are being made. The measures taken are a good thing, because they give oxygen to the companies. You speak of a company that closes its doors for one day, but some things, such as catering, will be closed for months. We are considering whether it is sufficient for these cases to postpone the social security contribution or whether a partial exemption should be introduced. The business is closed down and will therefore have to get some oxygen in order to survive in a good way. I invite you to look at all the resources available to the social inspection. It is really about more than just checking whether the light in a case is on or checking how many days the door has been open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u57	Madam Minister, as usual, you have given your answer to my question with some indulgence, but you have done the same to other colleagues, so I have no problem with that. However, you have not answered my question. You say that there is a proactive check, but the Royal Decree states that there is only subsequent check-up. You're actually committing violence to the truth. I have also made some calls and several people have also contacted me and it shows that at the end of last week all your inspectors and social inspectors were instructed to visit 6,000 companies in one week. Those can't be serious controls, it's totally pointless. Most of our companies are in good faith. There are no specific controls. It is particularly regrettable that with such a regulation and with the answer you are giving today, in addition to the issue and not in line with the truth, you risk undermining the support measures that our companies need. I am very sorry that in corona time you are imposing a lot of useless contacts on your social inspectors, with which they are not really able to do anything, because they themselves say that it cannot be controlled. Everyone has to stay in their quarters, but the social inspectors have to go up to the farmer and visit six thousand holdings in one week. They must be ready by 18 May, which will be on Monday. Well, that doesn't make any sense, and it's very bad for the support for our companies, which you're totally undermining. In that you bear a very great responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u58	Mr President, Madam Minister, on 12 May, two days ago, the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, through its Minister of the Environment, Mrs Carole Dieschbourg, spoke in the press about the ongoing consultation organised by ONDRAF to try to identify potential sites where certain nuclear waste could be fled. As a first step, you have already responded to the mayors by saying that you considered the incident to be closed. Madam Minister, I would ask you to consider that the discussion on this subject remains open and will remain open. Since there is no smoke without fire, as they say, I wonder a few questions. Indeed, in the light of your answer, I can only have doubts. You stated that at this stage, no sites had been selected for the disposal of radioactive waste, which suggests that with your agreement, even though this organization is working very independently, ONDRAF is looking for sites to bury nuclear waste. Minister, do you agree with this perspective? This is the question that is now being asked of citizens through this consultation. As far as I am concerned, I can already tell you that for the villages and towns of our provinces, this is a categorical no. The ONDRAF can thus already know their way of thinking. In any case, the position of the cdH is clear and clear: it's no! Madam Minister, I would also like to ask you why the municipalities are never contacted. During the entire VOCID crisis, they were virtually ignored. For my part, I would like them to be notified by means of official mail rather than by means of small communications from the Union of Cities and Municipalities. Finally, have you recently had contact with your counterpart in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on this issue. In fact, it was still a Luxembourg government minister who communicated! And if, in the province of Luxembourg, we were quickly made aware, it was because the Grand Duchy is close and we were able to get acquainted, via social networks, with maps of the municipalities concerned. Please reassure us that such projects do not exist and that there is no risk!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u59	Mr President, honourable Member, I hope I can reassure you at the end of my answer. First of all, I am very attentive to this issue and very attentive to what is said in this context. It is important because it engages Belgium for many years. I draw your attention to an essential element, which is the communication of ONDRAF itself, which responds to the criticisms that were made, and which it published on its website yesterday. The ONDRAF says: "In Belgium, no decision has been taken so far on the final destination of high-level waste." The establishment of a national policy that meets European directives is an obligation that we are meeting throughout this process, which will take decades. Proposals for the concrete plan, how and when, will be made in subsequent stages. For the moment, the consultation takes place on the principle of burial, to be adopted or not, and not on the location, even potential, of a site. ONDRAF confirms that it is not the author of the map that circulates in certain media and indicates potential locations. ONDRAF recalls that the process of choosing a location for a storage site is in no way on the agenda in this consultation, and that the environmental impacts will be assessed as this iterative process begins, the first stage of which is today's consultation, launched for 60 days as required by Belgian law, from 15 April to 15 June. Everyone can participate. Moreover, I am surprised that the municipalities have not been notified of this consultation via the regional ministers of energy and the environment, who have received a detailed letter from the ONDRAF, as it should be. I am surprised that they did not mention it and that they did not pass it on to the local authorities. As far as the situation is concerned, I had a very long meeting with my Luxembourg colleague. I know her very well and we have been meeting in European and international circles for a few years now. I told her that I did not understand that she chose the press to ask me questions while informally, and even if she had sent me a letter, she would have had the clarifications she wanted. Indeed, it does not say so, but it also knows that the consultation we are talking about today is a first step in a very long process and that it does not identify any sites. I also ask myself: where do these cards come from, if they do not come from his administration or his office? Finally, it's all her business. You have heard it in the answer: this is absolutely not the case of ONDRAF, which has been working on this policy for years and will continue to do so in the years to come, in interaction with the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN). My colleague finally concluded that she was going to send me a clarification request letter to which I will reply. Be assured, Mr Mayor, Mr Member, that I am making myself available to all the representatives of Luxembourg to clarify the situation. If you wish, we can do so without any difficulty by video conferencing, as soon as next week. I will send the invitations because I have obviously received a lot of requests by e-mail as Minister of Energy, Environment and Sustainable Development at the federal level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u60	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that the discussion is still open. The mayor that I am is not concerned with any card, unlike my excellent colleague, Benoît Piedboeuf. My municipality is not concerned and, rest assured, I have not had contact with ONDRAF before. Please note, however, that the discussion remains open and the incident must not be closed. Let us be clear, we realize that something is happening at the ONDRAF level and we will never accept to be the garbage of the ONDRAF. I say this very clearly and count on you, Madam Minister, to inform us regularly, both my colleague, Benoît Piedboeuf, and myself. Even if I'm in opposition, Mr. Piedboeuf, together, we can fight to prevent anything from happening. Of course, to please my group leader, I would also like to point out that all the other Walloon provinces are concerned. I would also like to congratulate my party president. Thank you!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u61	What a provincial spirit! It's almost Limburg!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u62	Madam Secretary, the corona crisis is heavily affecting our economy. At least 250,000 unemployed are expected in the coming weeks and months. One of the first drastic measures taken was the compulsory closure of the catering industry. This led to the loss of income for many entrepreneurs from one day to the next. However, fixed costs such as rent, taxes and payments to suppliers continue to go through, which makes serious financial problems for many entrepreneurs to be expected. The turnover loss in the catering sector is estimated at EUR 6.5 billion. In order to give these companies more breathing space, it was decided that the social contributions for the first and second quarters of this year could be postponed to 15 December. However, delay is not a delay. The fact that the water is on the lips proves the figures. A month ago, one in four employers and businessmen in the catering industry asked for this postponement. There are 140,000 employees at home waiting for more news. For many, the current measures are still insufficient to survive after the lockdown. At the moment, it is still coffee-dipping when the measures will be relaxed. The successive Security Councils brought no clarity, let alone hope. The catering industry continues to wait, hope and fear for light at the end of the tunnel. One of the additional possibilities for the catering industry, which is also called for by the sector, is the removal of the social contribution of the first quarter. This would help many entrepreneurs to survive this crisis. Companies that don't go bankrupt are jobs that are saved. Madam Minister, how long is the sector going to be left unclear? Has there been any consultation on reopening with the professional federations of the catering industry? Does the government intend to delete the first quarter of the social contribution? If I heard the previous speaker, the answer would seem yes, but could you give me more information? Do you consider any other measures for the sector in need?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u63	Mr President, Mr Verreyt, thank you for your question. It is true that there is a clear phasing-in in the exit strategy. In the first phase we opened the companies. In phase 1B the shops were opened. Next Monday we will go to phase 2, where the contact professions will be restarted. You claim that I have left the sector in the dark. I don't agree with that. We pointed out from the outset and when we announced the first phase of the exit strategy that the reopening of the catering industry would not take place before 8 June 2020. We have always communicated this in a clear way, including to them. We now have three weeks until 8 June 2020. It will be important to look at this together with them. The richness of the catering sector in our country is the diversity of that sector. For the restaurants, terraces and cafes in the coming weeks, we will see how we can safely reopen them from 8 June 2020. We won't do that alone. We will do this together with the sector. You have referred to various measures. However, I would like to stress once again that, in addition to what the regions have already done today in terms of support, especially in order to compensate for the continuing expenses, the federal level has also tried to guarantee income. We have done so through temporary unemployment. Also remember that the sector in our country today, together with the event sector, has the largest number of workers in temporary unemployment. After all, the catering sector is a very important sector. Secondly, there has also been the bridging right for March and April 2020. Mr Ducarme has also approved this right before May 2020 and is fully in the process of providing this permanent support in June 2020. As you pointed out, fiscal and social measures have also been taken. It is, of course, intended to extend them. A balance between economic necessity and health assurance will be needed in the coming weeks. Step 1, i.e. a safe reopening from 8 June 2020, is important. Secondly, we will have to continue with temporary unemployment. The catering sector seems to me to be the sector for which this measure is most needed. However, I agree with you that we must also take additional fiscal and social measures. We will not take those steps alone. We will take them together with the sector in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u64	Thank you, Madam Secretary. After 8 June is of course very spacious. I believe it is now time to clarify when and how the catering industry can reopen. Give the catering industry a clear perspective and equal rules, so that people know what to do and so that the uncertainty stops. Because that uncertainty makes it even more difficult. Do not allow the chaotic closure of the catering industry to be followed by an even more chaotic reopening. It should be the intention to drag as many catering entrepreneurs as possible through it. Because the more employers survive this crisis, the more workers remain at work. Everyone, and certainly the government, will benefit from that. Consider the deletion of the first quarter of social security contributions. Open the debate on VAT reduction in the catering industry. I paraphrase the chairman of Horeca Flanders, this morning in the newspaper: a society without catering is like a house without living. Let us re-burn the light in that place where everyone comes together, before many have to put out the light.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u65	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u66	You have received an amended draft agenda for today's meeting. You have received an amended draft agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u67	I have received Amendments Nos. 175 to 193 by Mr Christian Leysen and Amendment No. 194 by Mr Steven Matheï cs to the bill on various urgent tax measures due to the VOCID-19 pandemic, Nos. 1174/1 to 6. I have Amendments Nos 175 to 193 by Mr Christian Leysen and Amendment No 2 by Mr Leysen. Mr Steven Matheï cs referred to the draft law on various urgent tax provisions as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Nos 1174/1 to 6. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 May 2020, I propose that these amendments be referred to the Committee on Finance and the Budget (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 May 2020, I propose that these amendments be sent to the Finance and Budget Committee (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u68	By e-mail of 14 May 2020, Mr Khalil Aouasti communicates that he withdraws his motion for a recommendation tabled in conclusion of Inquiry No. 8 on the development of an application in the context of the VOCID-19. By e-mail dated 14 May 2020, Mr Khalil Aouasti announced that he had tabled his motion for a recommendation to wind up the interplay No. 8 on the development of a COVID-19 application. Therefore, by e-mail of 14 May 2020, Ms.Kathleen Verhelst withdrew her simple motion. Consequently, by e-mail dated 14 May 2020, Ms Kathleen Verhelst withdrew her simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u69	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Servais Verherstraeten, Katja Gabriels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u70	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Ms Khattabi.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal, to which this plenary assembly has given the urgency, was discussed in the Committee on Justice at its meetings on 6, 7 and 12 May. By way of derogation from Rule 98(7)(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee unanimously decided to proceed to the vote on the basis of the provisional opinion of the Council of State made available to the House on 4 May 2020. At its sitting on 12 May, the Court agreed with Mr. Verherstraeten's request to ask the Speaker of the House to discuss the proposal at today's plenary session. The committee agreed with an oral report. The aim of the proposal is to adopt urgent measures in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. In this period when compliance with social distancing measures is of the utmost importance, remote working opportunities must be exploited to the maximum extent within the judiciary. Thus, the proposed law provides for temporary easing of the legal framework for the signature of digital judgments and judgments as well as for the electronic filing of applications with registry offices. Like what has already been achieved for the notariat in the law of 30 April 2020, the legal deadlines for the designations of judicial officers are extended. In order to ensure that the internal organization of the public service of the judicial officers can continue without disruption in spite of physical constraints, the bill establishes the general possibility to organize the meetings of the organs of the judicial officers by videoconference, in line with what the law of 30 April 2020 has already foreseen for the notariat. The proposal also provides for optional extensions for liquidation-sharing proceedings. It also proposes a temporary limitation of certain seizure-executions against individuals. It intended to establish the payment order with regard to the monitoring of compliance with the measures relating to VOCID-19 in particular. I speak in the past because this provision has been the subject of lengthy exchanges and objections in principle, such as that, despite the amendments made by the authors, the article has been rejected, and I will return to that. Three new amendments were added to these provisions. This is the possibility for police services to provide digital copies or digital extracts of their minutes signed with an advanced stamp. These are also transitional provisions concerning the training of judges in the enforcement of sentences and, finally, the extension of the time limits for providing supporting documents in the context of second-line legal aid. As announced, Mr President, I will return to Rule 14, but very quickly because I have no doubt that my colleagues will also speak. This article has been the subject of lengthy exchanges and oppositions in principle, such that, despite the amendments made by the authors, it has not passed the ramp. The purpose of this article was to introduce, as in the case of taxiing, the order of payment through the permanent amendment of Article 216bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation, thus making the correctional court competent. The N-VA, Ecolo-Groen, PS and PTB groups expressed their objection in principle. Indeed, while all Commissioners agree on the importance of respect for the rules and the maintenance of law and order in general and in particular in the context of this crisis, they considered the proposed solution to be problematic. By means of the payment order, the procedure and the burden of proof are reversed and, if this is done with regard to the offence of taxiing, these are offences of a completely different nature which pose many problems of interpretation. They also note a fundamental difference with the fines for municipal administrative penalties (SAC), to which both the Minister and the authors referred. As part of the CWS, the enforcement officer issues a judgment after the finding of the offence, as would the Public Prosecutor's Office in deciding whether or not to call. The criminal transaction, on the other hand, comes from the police. It is an automated process that follows the finding. For socialist, ecologist, N-VA and PTB commissioners, judgment is essential in a rule of law, especially when the legal basis is unclear. For them, the only body that can truly judge must be a magistrate, even if it represents a large workload. As I said, amendments have been made. These amendments have improved the text, including that the provision be removed from the provision of the Code of Criminal Investigation to make it a separate article, thus limiting it over time; or the amendment that makes the police court competent rather than the correctional court. However, according to the party commissioners mentioned, these amendments do not provide an answer to the objection in principle. I'm not going to go on forever. I think colleagues are here to develop their respective positions. I would therefore point out that this article, although amended, was rejected by 8 votes to 6, with 3 abstentions. Mr President, the proposal as a whole, as amended and corrected in legislative terms, was adopted by a roll-call vote of 15 votes with 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u72	Mr President, we will support the proposal before us, but I would like to talk about what is no longer in it, in particular the original Article 14, as was already mentioned in the oral report. It concerns the provision to work with a payment order and to recover the fine through the tax authorities in the event of non-payment of the friendly settlement. The Rule in question did not receive a majority in committee and was thus removed from the text. However, the police court was made responsible for the recovery rather than the correctional court. I understand that it is not easy today, because everyone now has to adapt to something other than what was originally envisaged, but I would very much like to explain why our group could not support it. There should be no misunderstanding that enforcement has always been important to our party and that is, of course, still today. We do not want the rules to be properly observed and seen to be respected. Rules of course only make sense if they can be enforced, otherwise they become empty. In this respect, the lockdown rules are particularly essential, because they concern public health and respect for our healthcare providers. It is therefore more important than ever that we act decisively. There is no discussion on this, everyone agrees on that, including our group. With these imposed rules, there is a first problem. If we want rules to be respected, they must be clear to everyone. The problem is one can blame, but that does not help us; the crisis is a new story for everyone and it was search for everyone, unfortunately, that the rules are not clear today. There is one legal basis, in particular the ministerial decision, which is drawn up in such a way that it is so vague that one needs a FAQ of no less than 40 pages at one point it was even one of 42 pages, but I don't know what version we are sitting on now, numbers 12 or 13 pages to explain what can and can't really be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u73	If you need more than 40 additional pages, there is something wrong with the legal basis. There are multiple interpretations and different applications. In one place, the police maintain one way, somewhere else. Whatever's allowed in one is not allowed in the other. The system takes a wrong start right away. That's problematic, especially in criminal law. If it's not in criminal law, it's not criminal. That is the principle of legality. The FAQ is not a criminal law or legal basis, only a ministerial decision. The issue has already been raised here in the Chamber, but also police services came to me asking what to do and complained that they were jerking off with it. They believe in the rule of law and in rules and they want to maintain them, but how are they supposed to do that, with a 40-page book next to them? In one place one does so, in another sister and they do it in another way. On the ground, both with the police, as well as with the prosecutor's office and the seat, this has been done with good courage and good intentions. I am very grateful to them for that, but an unclear rule of law, which is interpreted differently in different places, is problematic for enforcement. The judicial review will then be crucial to assess whether or not it is an infringement. The possibility of dispute is greater than with other rules, unless we choose to leave the rule of law, but that is not our intention. What is the normal course of a case if it is to be disputed that an infringement has been committed? One gets a friendly settlement and a raspberry. If they are not complied with, they will be subpoenaed. In this case, it would even be a subpoena to the correct court, because it was malpractice. Article 14, which was voted down in committee, actually provided for something completely different: after the friendly settlement, a reappearance would be sent and then an order for payment. That payment order would be an enforceable title and with that enforceable title the tax authority could withhold and recover the fine. If we did not agree to this, we would have had to appeal to the correct court. It was inspired by a system that already applies to some traffic infringements today. It will then be recovered and, if it is not agreed, it will be possible to appeal to the police court, not to the courts. It is then a question of infringements such as a speeding offence, which is detected by a camera. There won't be much discussion about that. If an inspection certificate has expired, it's expired. We cannot discuss this. It is, of course, about other legal bases. The analogy is not entirely correct, but the system was inspired on that. In this way, the handling of justice would be easier. I understand that, too. After the legal basis, there was the second problem for our group. This is because the procedure is actually being reversed, and it must not be said in so many words: 'the burden of proof'. In that case, one should prove his innocence. Moreover, this should be done before a proper court, which is quite different from the police court. If one disputes a gas fine, one has to go to the police court, but here one should go to the correct court, which is a higher threshold for the right-wing. For us, too, the time frame within which this must be done and the signal function are important. What is so important about the enforcement of rules? First of all, one must make it clear to the person concerned that what he has done cannot be done. In the end, one must also explain to the rest of the population that something is criminal. That's the signal function. However, when is the tax authorities going to recover with an order for payment, when is that going to happen? Is that for next year or for the next attack? That's gonna take a long time. Something like this doesn't happen in public, but in private, in silence. The amount due is simply counted at the time of the attack or one gets less from the tax authorities. The scheme is therefore not public and therefore has no signal function. However, I understood that enforcement and a lick-on policy are very important. Next time, if we want to avoid a second wave of infringements, let us hope that we do not want to avoid them, then we must take firm action against them now. We cannot do this through the tax bill that comes next year or later. Apart from the extra hurdle that one had to take before the correctional court, and apart from the reversal of the burden of proof, the system is much less strong in terms of signal and deterrent. I think it would be better to subpoena as soon as possible, with a number of thematic sessions. That is a much clearer signal that hopefully will scare off much more. It also gives an entry in the criminal record. If citizens realise that such an infringement will be entered in their criminal records and that a judgment will follow soon, they will think twice about not paying for the friendly settlement unless they really do not agree with the punishment, of course. Perhaps that could be an incentive to pay faster, so no subpoena is needed. The infringement is also being addressed by the public and a strong signal is being sent to society that we are not just passing such infringements. That seems to me much more interesting in terms of enforcement than a silent recovery via the tax authorities the following year. Strictly speaking, this is a very long delay in payment. If one does not pay for the friendly settlement now, one gets a reminder. If they do not yet pay, then there is the order for payment, but only after a year or even later. I think a lick-on-piece policy is more interesting. Then the choice for the police court, regulation that came out in committee, is a good choice, all the more so because we are committed to enforcement. Is that an easy way? Of course, that is not an easy way to go. That must be done by everyone. Police forces need to get to work and set up pvs; the prosecutor has to subpoena and the police court will have to organise itself. I realise that this requires a serious effort on the part of the courts. On the other hand, by making the police court competent instead of the correctional court, it can be moved faster. It is also more logical, since they will already deal with all claims against GAS fines in the context of the corona measures. In addition, the lockdown may have reduced traffic breaches in the last two months and reduced the workload somewhat, which hopefully makes it easy to move such things in. It is now necessary to include a theme session as soon as possible and to roll up the sleeves in order to show society that the court can handle it. In this way, too, the signal function of this scheme is made hard for anyone who would still think that the rules would not be important. I realise that this is not easy, because the correct procedure was originally chosen. Today, legislation will be adopted that will be applied retroactively. None of that is so obvious. However, this is the result of the legislation that has been badly launched. Then you'll have to be puzzled afterwards. The changeover may not be so obvious, but it cannot be blamed on the Chamber. The crisis is what it is. Everyone had to find and help themselves. It can be said that perhaps the right start has not been made and that perhaps a little more thought should have been given to doing so in a coherent way. I realise that there is more demand for justice in this way, but we have also asked a great deal from the healthcare sector and many other sectors during the crisis; it is no different. I sincerely hope that with the existing legislation and the existing system of sanctions, through the police court for whom his friendly settlement has not been paid, the Justice will engage in enforcement. Enforcement is crucial for public health and as a signal to all those who took care of us during the crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill contained a lot of logical provisions, which had little discussion, but there was a lot of discussion about that one provision, the famous Article 14, which would introduce the order for payment. That is an important debate. The fact that we are debating something that is no longer in it today, but not what is in it, also says a lot. We need to know why the text is as it is today and why it is different from the original text that has been tabled today. They are important and fundamental debates that we in this House must have. Indeed, our group had a serious problem with the introduction of an order for payment. For the sake of clarity, it is of course of the utmost importance to us that all measures announced in the framework of COVID-19 be complied with. That is in the interests of public health and it must be done. It is important that infringements are and can be sanctioned. Those who do not pay for a friendly settlement should not speculate on a dismissal or a non-payment. This also means, as far as we are concerned, that discussions should be possible where they need to be conducted under the democratic rule of law, and that is for an independent judge. We have opposed a payment order because it is a system that ensures automatic collection of a fine and requires the citizen to take the initiative when he or she does not agree. There may be several reasons why that order does not reach the person or why people do not know how to bring the case themselves before the court. The committee has followed this and has decided by a majority not to accept Rule 14. As the honourable Member has said, there was support in the committee for a change in the power to bring the case no longer before the proper court, but before the police court, for reasons which have already been mentioned and on which I will return later. We were supposed to organise the final vote on Tuesday, but we received a letter from the College of Attorney General on Tuesday morning, trying to change the Chamber's mind. I found that strange, because the amendments were voted down or accepted the week before and it was clear what the Justice Committee wanted. It is important that Parliament still lays down the way and lays down the laws. For the moment, this is not the task of the College of Attorney General. Nor were the arguments put forward by the College of Attorney General very convincing. The first argument concerning the jurisdiction of the police court, which the College is opposed to, which I do not understand very well, is that there is a problem with computer science. It is said that in the system MACH cases have already been inserted to bring cases before the correctional court. If the police court suddenly becomes competent, this is a major problem for our computer system. Colleagues, what I always oppose and will always oppose is that computers determine what we are allowed to decide, that what a computer can or cannot do, wants or does not want will decide what to decide. No, that's the reverse world. It is Parliament that makes the choices, which approves the laws. It is the computer systems that need to be adapted and not the other way round. That would not be democratic at all. Moreover, on Tuesday, the Justice Minister in the Committee on Justice also showed that the problem with MACH may not be so great and that it can be resolved. The second argument cited by the College of Attorneys General is that the sessions of the police courts are already settled until September or October. This would mean that important traffic cases might have to be postponed. I fully understand that this is going to be a challenge for the organisation, but if the courts were to be competent and faced with a number of thousands of cases relating to corona, then matters that are already settled before the proper court would have to be postponed. We are also talking about serious forms of crime, about banditism, about beatings and injuries, about sexual crimes, scams and so on. Whichever court is competent, the police court or the correctional court, this requires challenges in the organisation of the court. With one, it won't be as much easier as with the other. In addition, there are arguments for bringing the case before the police court. In these times of corona there has been much less traffic and much less traffic accidents have happened. This means that within a few months, four to eight months, there may also be a lot of less serious road accidents to be dealt with before the police court. The police courts are also used to dealing with thirty to forty small, non-complex cases one morning. Those are perfectly the cases that will be presented to the court here. Let us be consistent: the College of Attorneys has also called for corona infringements to be prosecuted through GAS fines. Anyone who wanted to object to a gas fine had to do so at the police court. However, according to the College of Attorneys General, those who were subpoenaed for the same infringement should not be brought before the police court. The fact that the police judge is the natural judge for these infringements therefore makes sense to us. By choosing the police court and not working with a payment order, the Court has actually sent out the signal that it has confidence in the judiciary to make final judgments. I believe that this is an important signal. Moreover, despite the fact that it is legally possible, many municipalities have decided not to prosecute the infringements of corona measures through GAS, but to work with minutes by the police, who are sent to the courthouse and to allow the courts to work. They have chosen to deal with these infringements through the legal, judicial and judicial channels. If that is not a sign of trust in the judiciary! Colleagues, what we are faced with is a special situation. There are also special situations in schools. Again, it is not the normal life that is starting again. The medical sector has had to adapt, the economic sector has had to adapt, the liberal professions have had to adapt. Justice will also have to adapt, temporarily, to cope with this flow of cases. What we are facing now is the stress test for the Justice Department. Now it will have to be seen whether the Justice Department can handle it in times of crisis. Instead of having endless discussions about this, I made the proposal in committee that we should see how we can help each other. Legislative power, executive power, judiciary. There will be challenges. There are challenges in the fields of information technology, organisation, staff. As has been said, our group is prepared to hold that debate. If necessary, additional resources should be provided for the Justice Department to meet the challenge. As far as we are concerned, it is perfectly possible for additional judges to be called upon. These may also be retired judges who are asked to step in temporarily and to ensure that these cases can be dealt with before the police court within a reasonable period of time. Our group's appeal is not to give the people the signal that they do not have to pay because the order for payment did not make it. The signal we must send is that if they do not pay, they will have to go to court and it will be the judge who will judge whether or not their opposition or observations are justified. That is the essence of the rule of law. We are therefore pleased that Article 14 did not make it. However, after Article 14 has been removed, we will definitely support and approve the overall text. We hope that together we in Parliament will be able to ensure that this can be done in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u75	Mr President, first of all, I have a preliminary thought. Colleagues, I was loyal yesterday, as I promised. I agreed to an oral report. Otherwise, this proposal would be dealt with a week later. However, the reporting that has taken place today was very limited. We met for three half days and had very interesting discussions. Everyone has been given a comprehensive opportunity to express their views. I am very sorry to sum up all this in a report of less than ten minutes. There is no need to discuss the various points of view in detail, because we would be sitting here at 9 p.m. this evening. However, the broad outline of the different positions has not happened either, which I very much regret. Our group will think twice in future before we agree to such an oral report. Ladies and gentlemen, I come now to the proposal itself, on which I would like to express some critical reservations. First of all, I have some previous reservations. We must first of all ask ourselves whether the proposal makes any sense. It's late. The original bill has been circulating for several weeks now. I wonder why it has been waited so long to submit it to the committee. A great deal of time has passed since the beginning of the crisis. What's the relevance now? We all know that various initiatives have been taken in the field to implement a number of things that are being proposed today. I can testify that these initiatives are working, perhaps not perfect, but with this proposal they will not work perfectly either. I will come back to that in a moment. At least they work very well. New measures now before, let us all hope, a very limited period, that has no added value. What we are in favour of, ladies and gentlemen, is something for the future: the legal anchoring of something we will call the roadmap for possible future pandemics. I hope this will never have to be used, but when we hear the scientists, the chance for future pandemics is real. This should not be discussed openly in digital committees, but when we return to the order of the day, we must make this a priority: a coherent whole, involving all parties involved in the field, from the various angles and across all areas of competence. I come to the proposal itself. I think we all agree that the proposal that was originally on the table was very bad. Fortunately, we received a comprehensive opinion from the Council of State and, thanks to the suggestions made, the original text was considerably improved. Account was also taken of the note from our legal service, for which thanks. Despite these adjustments, there is still no complete and solid work to be done here. It is important to stress that there is absolutely no regard for reality and major problems in the field. There are still a number of serious questions to be asked. Firstly, there are practical problems. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the reality is that justice is not ready to implement this proposal in practice. The present computer system has not yet been sufficiently adapted and developed for its practical application. The Council of State is very clear and warns, I quote, '...that the current computer system of Justice will be technically seriously disrupted if excessive use is made of this system'. Even worse: "The IT system of the Justice Department is not even completely reliable." Dixit the Council of State. This does not work correctly in many courts. Many magistrates still do not have proper access to e-Deposit until today. The Supreme Court of Justice raises the same concerns. This proposal does not take into account the practical problems of computerisation in the field. For example, most courts and prosecutors have so far had little or no practical experience of placing an electronic signature. Can the electronic signature be used on a dematerialised judicial instrument anywhere? That's just the question. In practice, I fear not, except perhaps for a number of pilot projects which were held in some peace courts. Most courts still do not have a system where a judgment rolls out, let alone a digital signature can be attached to it. I have read in the explanatory statement that there is a database which should allow verification of the capacity of the signatory. However, there is no guarantee that the judiciary will retain ownership and control of those judgments. This also gives a clear warning to the Supreme Court of Justice. These rulings should be included in a database fed and managed by the judiciary. The judicial entity that issued the decision must deliver it to the parties. It is also important that the judiciary retains control over its own computer systems and personal data, without being dependent on external actors. The database, referred to in the explanatory memorandum, apparently still does not have all the technical functionalities to be considered as an authentic source. That's so literal in the explanatory statement. During the discussions in committee, I asked for explanations, but I did not get them. However, it is important to know what technical functionalities are involved. I now come to a few points on the articles. Firstly, Article 2 sets out the relaxation of the requirements for the identification of signatories. That is a good principle in itself, but there has been a lot of criticism, including from the Supreme Court of Justice, which still asks serious questions. At present, it is not clear to legal practitioners how the electronic signature, whether qualified or not, should be applied in practice. Will there be an accelerated introduction of the necessary information technology in the field, as it is lacking in most courts and courts? Which IT system will be used and how will it be implemented in all entities that do not yet use it? Will there be an information campaign? They all remain unanswered questions. I think that Article 4 is an absolutely superfluous article. The explanatory memorandum even refers to the circular of 18 March 2020 of the College of the courts and courts. The circular works very well in practice. Then why we need a legal anchor here, which is still temporary, for something that works well in practice is a question. I have some further reservations. Shipments by e-mail are still allowed until the second day following the publication of this law. It is important for the Justice Department to release all e-mail addresses. That is not the case today. I think there is an urgent need for a complete overview of all e-mail addresses from the highest to the lowest court. It's just a temporary system. The question arises as to why the lodging of an application cannot be definitively recognised in this way. I hope this will be done later. Another question is why ordinary citizens are excluded from the deposit by e-mail. That difference in treatment, according to the Supreme Court of Justice, must be justified. We didn't get that justification. I can't find it anywhere. What about proxy holders who can take proceedings? I am thinking, for example, of trade unions and public legal entities such as the OMCW. Then there is the procedure of liquidation and distribution. Here too, the question must be asked as to whether there is still a need for legal regulation today. In any event, the Council of State makes it clear that KB No. 2 is sufficient. There is also a very far-reaching retroactivity, until 18 March. Here too, there is neither clarification nor accountability. I believe that this far-reaching retroactivity is absolutely not desirable for provisions regulating the practical modalities of a procedure. It is necessary to ensure that certain acts already committed cannot be declared null and void. We have no guarantees about that here. It is also important, even on this point, that the contradiction should be guaranteed and that the videoconferencing can only be used if all parties have the necessary infrastructure and, unfortunately, an important condition that I do not find, that all parties are assisted by a counsellor. The system cannot be used if one party is present but acts in person without counsel. This person must be protected. Where the distribution of proceedings by videoconferencing is not possible, the time limits shall be extended to a maximum of four months. This period is far too long. The Council of State also takes this view. Article 9 is a very important article in this legislative proposal, but it has passed very quickly. No one has said anything about this today. The article deals with the temporary restriction of the executive attachment against individuals. A limited parallel is drawn here with KB No. 15. A suspension is proposed for certain implementations. The crucial difference is that only the export herds are meant here, with the exception of the retention of third parties. Ordinary preservation herds are not covered by this regulation. It is well justified here that they may be admitted, on the grounds that the debtor can continue to enjoy the goods during this crisis period without being able to dispose of them. That is a clear logic which the Flemish Interest Group agrees with. This measure may at first sight appear to be a social measure. I doubt that will be the case in reality. I have a number of serious reservations here. Is the opinion of the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs requested here? In practice, I know that bailiffs don't always have the reputation of being socially sensitive. I am very aware of that. At present, in this situation, bailiffs take account of the very specific circumstances. They have therefore rightly raised the alarm over the last few days and pointed out different risks. I therefore regret that their position is not taken into account. Firstly, this proposal threatens to temporarily make more staff of the bailiffs technically unemployed because there will be much less work. This is again an additional burden on our finances. You clearly have no knowledge of current practice. Today, the corona crisis is already taking on a much less executive role. The bailiffs have limited many herds of their own accord for social reasons. There is therefore no need for additional legislative initiatives. I've contacted numerous bailiffs personally. I know that several bailiffs themselves contact the debtors when they pay late and fail to comply with the abbreviation plans by letter, e-mail, telephone, SMS and spontaneously propose to reduce agreed monthly abbreviations if the debtor is having difficulty due to this crisis. Just saying that any form of execution, except for the exceptions provided for, is temporarily impossible, is a step too far. No distinction is made between the nature and the origin of the claim. There is no nuance to the debtor's person either. This way the creditor stays in the cold. That is something we have to consider, ladies and gentlemen. Is that the intention of this proposal? Creditors also have rights and deserve protection. There's more. Malicious debtors will eagerly use these temporary measures to pay no more. In practice, this means once again an increased risk of bankruptcy for many corporate creditors. Not only the companies, but also the ordinary citizen-debtor will not be protected here. Let me give an example from practice to illustrate this. A retired self-employed person has worked hard all his life and has been able to save some money to buy an apartment he rents to get extra income on top of his lousy pension. Should he stay in the cold because the tenant doesn't pay the rent? For the sake of clarity, in order to avoid misunderstandings, this has nothing to do with the expulsions that can be postponed until 15 July. It's not about that. That landlord also needs the money to be able to pay his bills. There is no doubt that the interests of both sides are not well-balanced at all, ladies and gentlemen. We do not want to cooperate in this. It goes on because not all debtors are crooked, unfortunately there are also many debtors who get into trouble completely in good faith. They are also not protected by this scheme. Court bailiffs confirm that many debtors in practice already have pending files that are often resolved after a long time. These debtors in good faith will face new claims on top of current cases after the expiry of the measures. In concrete terms, this means that they are entering a vicious circle and that the situation will become truly unsustainable for them in the long term. The risk is that they will rely on debt mediation and that the creditor will only partially or at all fail to realise his claim. I warn you because this proposal will give rise to serious problems in practice. The proposal also does not take into account the practice of the execution. If the executing herd is actually carried out, the current legislation provides for a waiting period of 1 month between the herd and the effective sale. It is intended that the debtor should still be given the opportunity to propose a settlement. I do not have any concrete figures, but practice shows that the number of public and judicial sales represents only a small fraction of the number of seizures, precisely because solutions are being sought and effective agreements are being reached. If you give an additional delay, until 17 June and perhaps even longer, this means that in practice executions will be suspended for six months. That can't be the intention. I would like to emphasise that, during this crisis period, our party cannot agree to the execution of the family home. I want to make no mistake about that. Why don't you make an appointment with the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs to remind them of their responsibility and ask them to deal with the executions in a socially responsible way? I think practice since the outbreak of the coronavirus has shown that most bailiffs already work this way. This does not require legislative work. There is no provision for judicial intervention, as opposed to Royal Decree No. 15, which does provide for a judicial review. Why not allow the creditor to address the attachment court in the event of misuse of the debtor? I regret that. A number of exceptions are also provided for, which can be implemented. I refer to Rule 10, 3°. That Article shall not apply to the recovery of any conviction in criminal matters. I fully agree with this principle, not any discussion, but do have a number of reservations to which I hope to have an answer today. Is the civil action brought in the context of criminal proceedings also excluded from the temporary suspension? In any case, it should not be the case that the government can continue the execution, but not the bourgeois party. During the discussions in committee, I did not receive a clear answer. Once again, I ask the simple question to remove all doubt. The bourgeois party shall be defined in Article 10, 3°: "any other commitment to pay a sum in criminal matters'. Mr Verherstraeten, yes or no? There is no other way to answer this question, but I think this is very important. It is not only the State that must be protected and that must be able to recover the costs of justice, but also the victim, the bourgeois party, has rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u76	Mrs Dillen, the answer is in the legislative text before us. The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u77	I am glad, then, Mr Verherstraeten, that you say today, for the sake of clarity, that there can be no debate on this in practice today and that if tomorrow a victim wants to enforce his or her claim, he or she will be given the same protection as the State. Thank you for that clear confirmation. Our second question is whether there will also be an exception in the case of tax fraud? Afterwards, that has been extended to social fraud. Of course. Totally agreed. However, the explanatory memorandum does not clarify whether the tax fraud must already be definitively established by a judgment or judgment which has the force of res judicata or whether it is a presumption of tax or social fraud. I would have liked to have been clear about that. I have a brief reflection on Article 11 concerning the temporary exemption from the legal obligation to co-sign a judicial decision by all magistrates. I have no objection to the principle itself, but I dare to refer again to the established case law of the Court of Cassation, which states that failure to comply with this formality, the judgment or the judgment is broken. That's not something to go lightly over. I can only hope that this proposal will pass the test of the Court of Cassation. I would also like to make a few comments on Chapter 8. That has just been discussed in great detail. For the non-committee members, this concerns the temporary competence of the police judge to take note of infringements of COVID-19 measures. We all agree that violations of the corona legislation must be dealt with strictly. That's obvious. No one can doubt that. First of all, because everyone has to follow the rules. That is a basic principle in a state of law. But especially out of respect for all those who have been working unconditionally since the outbreak of the pandemic. All the people in the care sector, in the broadest sense of the word - the volunteers, the police, the education, the postmen, the people who collect the household waste, the drivers who carry out orders, etc. They're all people I'd like to make a big deal out of. However, police courts and police authorities must also be given sufficient resources and support to carry out this additional, albeit temporary but very difficult task. Minister, will you make the necessary resources available? If this does not happen, the foregoing is absolutely not a solution. As Mrs De Wit said a moment ago, during the committee discussions it was said that there would be fewer traffic infringements, thus releasing margins. I assume that there will be fewer traffic breaches, but additional margins will not be released. Why won't that happen? During the past period, immediately from the outbreak of the corona crisis until 31 May 2020, almost all cases were automatically postponed to hearings from June 2020 and to the next judicial year. I've been informed. I can't talk about other provinces. I don't have that pretence. However, I have requested some information about Antwerp. In Antwerp, many police courts were fully booked in September and October 2020. However, all deferred dossiers will also have to be dealt with. In addition to the infringements already identified, the figures were already very high. If I am not mistaken, we now have 87 000 to 88 000 infringements, some of which will hopefully be paid. Colleagues, the handling of this will not be evident to the police court and will cause a significant increase in the workload, especially in view of the large number of infringements. I warn you already that this workload in the police courts will give rise to a bottleneck. Colleagues, we have all been able to learn about the writing of the College of Attorneys General. I know that the College was a great supporter of what was originally worked out in the bill. However, the payment order is no longer in the text. I'm not going to discuss that any further. However, we must not be blind to the serious criticism that the College makes of the new rules, pointing to a large number of risks, such as the imminent statute of limitations on many traffic offences, which should not be the intention. I will not read the points of criticism of the College of Attorneys-General in full here. Some of them are quite right, and I regret that they were not taken into account. I will conclude, Mr President. It is very important that clear guidelines should be put in place to prevent some police courts from prosecuting these infringements strictly. This certainly can't be the intention. Topical sessions could be organised, which would be a very good thing. Additional magistrates may also be called upon to do so by a number of additional alternates or by recourse to retired magistrates. I am convinced that these retired magistrates are prepared to take up their responsibilities and intervene temporarily, because they certainly support the importance of these measures. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be that in some jurisdictions these perpetrators go free because the prosecutors do not prosecute, because this would be a very bad signal to the offenders who know that in the future they will be able to go their own way without being prosecuted. It would be a wrong signal to anyone who has followed the rules, no matter how difficult it was for many, which I can understand, and again, a very bad signal to our corona heroes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u78	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Khattabi for the oral report. It summarised the main elements of the discussion and also correctly reflected the discussion on Article 14. Ladies and gentlemen, the legislative proposal before us today contains a number of very urgent measures that must be taken to safeguard the functioning of our judicial system during the COOVID-19 pandemic. It was therefore absolutely necessary to deal with the legislative proposal as a matter of urgency, because this can also be done in the judicial system to meet the new reality in these times, where the adoption and enforcement of social-disposal measures is of paramount importance. We would therefore like to thank colleagues for their constructive attitude to the question of urgency in dealing with the text. The legislative proposal contains several measures to ensure that procedures are as efficient as possible. It also opens up the possibility of making maximum use of remote working in the judiciary. Without going into detail, it concerns the electronic submission of petitions, meetings of bailiffs through videoconference, as previously approved for notaries, and temporary facilitations to the legal framework for the signature of digital judgments and judgments. Colleagues, at least as important is the attention that the legislative proposal has for those who are struggling financially at these times. They too must be helped. The text responds to this. The suspension of the executive herds and of specific protective herds for private individuals, initially until 17 June, avoids impounding the homes or wages of socially vulnerable people. Families are becoming increasingly difficult at this time to cope with the financial consequences of the crisis in everyday life. On 8 April there were already 1.26 million applications for temporary unemployment. I do not have the state of affairs today, but it is absolutely clear that the crisis affects very many people, families and vulnerable families. I do not have to tell you that, with the maintenance of a wage attachment for a family where the other partner is put on temporary unemployment, the knife is only stabbed deeper into the wound. It is not just a matter of avoiding people losing their homes; it is also a matter of having to be able to do their shopping, to pay their bills, health bills and energy bills. A number of colleagues felt that the proposal unduly upsets the balance between creditor and debtor. I can only say that we consider it necessary at the moment to take the proposed measures temporarily for these families. We have taken a number of measures for companies, including to prevent companies from going bankrupt and their movable property from being confiscated. With this legislative proposal, we are also taking an important measure to give families breathing space during this difficult period. Finally, I would like to mention the measure that has not been achieved. In the context of this legislative proposal, our intention was to introduce the payment order for the enforcement of the COVID-19 measures. Since the beginning of the crisis, 84,000 violations of the corona measures have been identified by the police. Realistically, a quarter of these fines, possibly some 20,000 fines, will remain without effect and may not be paid. Efficient handling of the corona fines is therefore crucial in order not to overload our judicial system. For this reason, we wanted to introduce a temporary measure, i.e. to introduce the temporary nature of the proceedings in order to deal with them as efficiently as possible, without violating the rights of the defence and without depriving the individual of the opportunity to challenge his fine. Because some groups are in favour of systematically subpoenaing those concerned, our proposal has failed. Despite our reservations about this, including whether it is in the interests of those involved that the conviction should always be entered in the criminal record, we are fully committed to the proposal. It is the political choice of a majority in the Committee on Justice. You win some, you lose some . It is important, however, that attention should be paid to the impact of the decision to subpoena. As I said earlier, it's about 20,000 extra cases. In view of the fact that the correction courts have dealt with between 19,500 and 21,300 cases in the last five years, it is clear that the new decision will create an enormous workload. Even now it has been decided to bring the infringements before the police courts, and even if it can be assumed that the same police courts will have less work due to a smaller number of traffic breaches in corona times, it still remains a very large number of files and additional work for the courts. Some colleagues suggested in committee that retired judges should be called back if necessary. However, it is already clear that, despite this call, there will be insufficient magistrates to deal with the workload. We are therefore counting on the parties in favour of such an influx of files to support the Minister of Justice in extending the temporary frameworks so as to ensure that corona infringements can be brought to justice as quickly as possible. In any case, I would like to emphasise that we are satisfied with the important steps proposed. That is why we are protecting the judiciary. I would once again like to thank my fellow Members for their support for the urgency and speed of the procedure, so that we can vote on the text here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as fascinating as the debate may be, I would like to return to an article in the legislative proposal that was adopted in committee. After all, we are also voting today on some of the measures that are particularly important for vulnerable families. These people are currently in a very difficult financial situation and, thanks to this legislative proposal, they are given a little more breathing space. The suspension of the execution, as initially stated in the legislative proposal, sounds very good but unfortunately makes very little difference on the ground. Indeed, the execution order is a measure which is only taken very exceptionally by court bailiffs in any case, i.e. only in 1% of the cases. In these corona times there are also guidelines from the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs not to proceed to execution. After all, it is simply very difficult to maintain physical distance and to respect the rules of social distancing. They propose to switch as an alternative to attachment to third parties, i.e. payroll. That directive will ensure a very strong increase in the level of the payroll during this period. There were not many executions for the corona period, and now this is even less happening because of the directives. This is precisely the reason for the very sharp increase in wages. The amendment tabled by the sp.a Group was therefore very important to make a real difference for those who have had even more financial difficulties in this crisis period than before. I would therefore like to thank my fellow Members for including the temporary ban on the seizure of wages in the text. For this reason, we will also strongly support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u80	Mr President, I would like to repeat this. Colleague, this is not just about pay. We do not have any problem with the wage-fixing scheme, but you go further, because any protective attachment to third parties will be suspended. It is therefore also a question of confiscating the bank account. If, in a manner of speaking, there is money in the bank account, then it is first possible to pay its creditors. This must not be protected, because it has nothing to do with wages. If you had limited the measure to the payroll, I could have followed you and you were right. However, I cannot follow you when you apply the measure to all herds of third parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u81	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u82	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1181/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1181/5) The title has been amended by the commission in "Proposed law on various provisions in the field of justice in the context of the fight against the spread of coronavirus VOCID-19". The title was changed by the Committee to "legislative proposal laying down various provisions on justice in the context of the fight against the spread of the Covid-19 coronavirus." The bill has 22 articles. The bill has 22 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u83	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u84	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 1161: Emmanuel Burton, Vincent Scourneau, Jef Van den Bergh, Marianne Verhaert - 1149: Tomas Roggeman, Frieda Gijbels, Wouter Raskin.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u85	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Cécile Thibaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u86	Mr President, the committee has considered the following bills: the bill amending the law of 5 May 2017 on support for diffuse traffic for the period 2017-2020 and extending support for combined transport for the period 2017-2020, as regards the sustainability of diffuse and combined transport (No 1149) and the bill to take measures to combat the spread of VOCID-19 coronavirus in rail matters (No 1161). The committee considered Bill No. 1161 at its meeting on 28 April 2020. The committee then considered the above-mentioned bill and Mr Roggeman's Bill No. 1149 at its meeting on 12 May 2020. The committee decided to choose Bill No. 1161 as the basic text. Mr Roggeman's proposal No. 1149 has become moot. In the procedure, it is referred to a first report submitted on 30 April 2020, supplemented by the present report. The basic text concerns Articles 1 and 12 to 18 of Bill 1161, which became the basic text in the new general discussion. These rules could be put to the vote as the committee was able to obtain the desired written comments from the Regions in the framework of the cooperation procedure provided for in Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Concerning the introductory statements, for text No. 1149, Mr. Roggeman referred to the development of his bill, his initiative to extend the allocation of the subsidy for five years, until 2025. For text No. 1161, Mr. Burton referred to the development of his bill and the general discussion on 28 April 2020. He pleaded for a stable framework that offered prospects. In the general discussion, Mr. De Spiegeleer joins with the intention of providing support for five years in view of the long-term consequences of the health crisis. Ms Buyst, for her part, supported the extension of support but asked for an in-depth analysis of the future of combined rail transport. Mr. Jef Van den Bergh shared this view. Mrs Vindevoghel pleads for a study. It opposes the unconditional subsidy granted to private companies. It has tabled an amendment to link the granting of subsidies to respect for employment. Ms Verhaert prefers to wait for the results of the current study before considering the extension of the subsidy regime. Mr Roggeman considered it important to provide a stable framework. The Minister of Mobility, François Bellot, notes that the Commission is in favour of extending support for diffuse and combined traffic. Mrs Hanus, on the other hand, tabled an amendment to protect employment in companies receiving support. Article 1 was adopted unanimously. Articles 2 to 7 were adopted successively by 16 votes and 1 abstention. Amendment No 1 to Article 8 by Mrs Vindevoghel was rejected by 7 votes to 1 with 9 abstentions. Amendment No 2 by Mrs Hanus et al. was adopted by 8 votes to 6, with 3 abstentions. Article 9 (former Article 18) provides that this Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2021. It was adopted unanimously. The bill as a whole as amended was adopted by unanimous vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u87	Mr President, I would first of all like to thank Mrs Thibaut for the report. There were actually two questions before the debate. Firstly, are we currently extending the subsidy scheme? Is it an appropriate time to extend them in the context of the corona emergency measures? There was a pretty big consensus to do that. I also think that this is important: rail freight does not have large margins and needs a sufficiently broad time horizon, so the extension is certainly appropriate at the moment. Secondly, there was the discussion about the length of the period: for one year or suddenly for five years? There was quite a large consensus to do it for a limited period because there is currently an evaluation of the existing subsidy schemes that we are extending today. We look forward to that in-depth evaluation in the coming months, so for the long term, for more than one to one and a half years, we have to wait for the evaluation to see how we can continue to support rail freight. In itself, we must certainly continue to support and push the transition from road to rail transport. Some parties doubt whether this will be possible through current companies. The figures show that there has been a growth in rail transport in recent years, up to the corona crisis in any case, and that the share of rail freight transport compared to the other modes is growing again after the impact of the economic crisis in 2008-2010. We can only welcome this growth and we can only continue to sustain this fragile growth with today's measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u88	Mr President, as has already been pointed out, we had also tabled an amendment on this subject. In fact, we find it regrettable that there has not been a thorough debate in the context of the debate on subsidies, with a serious impact study and with a view to finding out what the subsidies have already been awarded. After all, we see in practice that the share of rail freight transport has fallen since privatisation in 2007. So there is actually no increase, while we have always been subsidising. We come from 13.8% and have fallen to 11.7%, which is lower than the European average. We must be careful to continue to grant subsidies to private companies if there is no continuity. Our group believes that much more should be done in the long term, that investments should be made in the rail network, in serious research and development and that legislation requires that freight traffic be carried out by rail, for example by putting containers, semi-trailers or full lorries on the train. That's already happening in Switzerland. If we really want this change, it will have to be dealt with much more seriously than it has been to date. The PVDA-PTB Group is certainly in favour of extending rail freight transport because it is a very good thing from an ecological point of view. That must be a choice of society. Our group tabled an amendment aimed at linking the granting of subsidies to guarantees and the maintenance of employment. The PS Group tabled a similar amendment. Thanks to this amendment, the condition of maintaining employment was approved in the vote. The PVDA-PTB Group is satisfied with the condition attached to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u89	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u90	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1161/8) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1161/8) The title has been amended by the committee in "Proposed law to take measures to combat the spread of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus in rail (II)". The title was changed by the committee to "legislative proposal to take action to combat the spread of the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 on rail transport (II).' The bill has 9 articles. The bill has 9 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u91	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u92	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Vincent Scourneau, Emmanuel Burton, Jef Van den Bergh, Marianne Verhaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u93	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Joris Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Mobility discussed this proposal on 28 April and 12 May and referred it to today's plenary because of the urgent need. That is why I am presenting an oral report on this matter. In the introductory statement, Mr Burton referred to the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal. It concerns an extension of the deadline for the handling of administrative fines and the extension of the tariffs that airlines are obliged to pay to Brussels Airport Company. In the general article-by-article discussion, Mr Vindevoghel referred to the dramatic situation in the aviation sector. She said that her group expected an in-depth discussion on the role of the public authorities in the operation of airport facilities and also on the protection of workers' interests. Mr Toventos pointed out the very difficult period that airlines are now going through. It considered it appropriate, instead of extending the rates in force immediately by one year, to renegotiate them with the airlines in order to give them a little more breathing space by temporarily reducing tariffs. Mr Zanchetta is a co-signatory of three amendments, which she has explained in committee. Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 10, 10, 11, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, It proposed limiting it to three months, once renewable. Amendment No 2 is about hearing suspects through videoconferencing, which should not be an obligation. Mr Buyst then pointed out that she was in favour of further flexibility in tariffs on the basis of certain criteria. It also has Amendments Nos. 6 and 7 for a clear provision stating that the time limit can only be extended once. Mr Burton and Mr Scourneau have tabled four amendments. Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 10, 10, 11, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, Amendment No 8 is intended to make hearings optional for each videoconferencing. Minister Bellot then took the floor. It pointed out that the proposed extension of the regulated tariff period by one year was intended to lift the tariff negotiations between BAC and the airlines on the threshold of the COOVID-19 crisis. Moreover, this is in line with the practice of all other European airports in which the tariff period ends. Furthermore, with regard to administrative fines, the Minister stated that the extension of the deadline was intended to safeguard the rights of the defence. The Minister further confirmed that the hearing by videoconference should always be optional and that an amendment to that effect is therefore welcome. After the discussion, the vote was taken. Amendments Nos. 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 were adopted. The amended version was adopted by 14 votes in favour and 3 abstentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we abstained. As has already been said, the house is on fire while a bill on fines and licences is being discussed. We regret that the opportunity was not taken to discuss the role of Brussels Airport at the airport and to consider whether Brussels Airport would not be better given in public hands instead of what it is like now. Brussels Airport is the company that has made the most money in recent years and that money goes to shareholders abroad and not to the company itself. Hence our abstention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u96	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u97	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1163/08) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1163/8) The title has been amended by the Commission in "Proposal for a law on measures against the spread of the VOCID-19 pandemic with regard to administrative fines for air transport and air navigation and the Brussels Airport tariff system". The title was changed by the Commission to "legislative proposal on measures to combat the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic as regards administrative fines in respect of air transport and air navigation and the Brussels Airport tariff system." The bill has 10 articles. The bill has 10 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u98	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u99	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Marianne Verhaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u100	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr. Van den Bergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u101	Mr President, the Committee on Mobility discussed the bill at its meeting on 12 May last Tuesday, in a hybrid meeting with physically present members and with remote members via videoconference. The proposal was given the urgency at the plenary session on 30 April. The President of the Chamber decided to seek an opinion from the Legislative Section of the Council of State. That opinion was received in time for the discussion to take place in committee last Tuesday. For the sake of urgency, it was also agreed to present the proposal to the plenary today with an oral report. Mrs Verhaert referred to the written text of the explanatory memorandum for the explanatory memorandum. It also tabled four amendments during the discussion in order to respond to a number of earlier technical comments made by the Council of State. With regard to the general discussion and the article-by-article discussion, Mr Pieter Demirage the need for urgent measures for shipping. He referred to the heavy toll imposed by the pandemic on seafarers, as was shown by a particular investigation. Mrs Buyst agrees with the objectives of the legislative proposal, but wonders why the measures have already been communicated by the Directorate-General for Shipping on 18 April and why this should be discussed in Parliament a month later. It also raises a number of questions with regard to Article 7 of the bill on the repatriation of seafarers. What initiatives has the Belgian authorities taken so far with a view to rapid repatriation? Was this article discussed with the social partners? It points out that the article does not contain a final date and that this may pose a risk for a permanent possibility of derogation from the collective agreement in force. Mrs Verhaert responded as the applicant that the decision to stay on board or no longer remain on board is entirely up to the seafarers themselves. Furthermore, retroactivity is justified by the essential nature of the shipping sector. This was also discussed with the social partners, and this is in any case a temporary arrangement in view of the COOVID-19 crisis. Minister Bellot also refers to the temporary nature of the proposed measures, which is also reflected in the title of the legislative proposal. Mrs Vindevoghel also regretted that Article 7 did not explicitly mention the temporary nature of the measure. It was agreed, however, that this temporaryity would be underlined in the report, which was the subject of this report. Mr Roggeman also stressed the need for the measures included in the legislative proposal. In Article 12 of the bill, he asked whether the measures applied specifically to shipping and not to inland waterway transport, as confirmed by Minister Bellot's reply. Finally, Mrs Verhaert pointed out that there was certainly no breach of powers, since the three regions had given a positive opinion. At the vote, there were four amendments to Rules 5, 6, 11 and 13. All four amendments were adopted unanimously. The 13 articles were also adopted unanimously, with the exception of Rule 7, with a vote of 12 votes in favour and 3 votes against. It was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u102	Mr. Chair, I would like to comment briefly on the three bills. The debate was very interesting and naturally directly related to the coronavirus crisis. I think that every Member has taken note of the difficulties of the transport sector, whether it is maritime, rail or air. I would also like to point out – because when things go well, it is rarely said – that SNCB is one of the only European railway companies that is operating again at 100%, since 4 May 2020. It is thanks to the railway workers, to all the measures taken in-house and to the support of all the authorities – regional, local or federal. We can congratulate the railwaymen in the first place, but also those who have rolled up their sleeves so that it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u103	Minister, thank you. We can only join in your congratulations to all the railwaymen. I fully agree with you that, when it is good, it must be said – and especially when it is good. Unfortunately, it is not the rule that prevails today. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u104	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1213/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1213/5) The title has been amended by the Commission in "Proposal for a law on temporary measures to ensure the continuity of navigation during the crisis related to the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2". The title was changed by the Committee to "legislative proposal on temporary measures to ensure continuity in shipping during the outbreak of the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2." The bill has 13 articles. The bill has 13 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u105	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u106	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 1155: Christophe Lacroix, Melissa Depraetere, Patrick Prévot, Eliane Tillieux, Sophie Thémont, Malik Ben Achour, Khalil Aouasti, Eric Thiébaut, Ludivine Dedonder, Ahmed Laaouej - 1184: Leen Dierick, Steven Matheï, Jef Van den Bergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u107	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u108	Mr President, I would like to refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many families have become, are and will still be affected by the corona crisis. It is unnecessary to say that this also has financial repercussions for those people. Fortunately, governments at the various levels have taken responsibility and have ensured that a safety net is provided. Also with the banking sector an agreement was reached on a postponement for mortgage credit repayments. What is before us today is a proposal which aims to achieve the same goal, but for consumer credit. We understand that an answer to this question has to be sought and found. The question we have is whether the agreement reached is the right one. We have our doubts about that. Compared to the initial proposal, it is good that the proposal now includes the fact that if income losses are caused by the corona crisis, this must be demonstrated effectively. We are still a little uncertain about the human scope and have also indicated in committee that we believe that this is still too broad. The most important point for us, however, is that there should be a lower financial limit in the proposal for the eligible appropriations. In committee we have put forward all our ideological arguments for this, but today I would like to put forward the practical arguments. Without a lower limit in this proposal, this law risks exceeding its objective for two reasons. Firstly, the companies that have to process the applications will not be able to handle that logistics. They do not have the staff capacity to process tens of thousands of applications, so that in practice the envisaged law will not be able to achieve its objective. Secondly, as a result, the people who really need the postponement could not be helped, which is not the intention at all. That is why we have tabled two amendments to include a minimum threshold of at least EUR 50 in the proposal. We are counting on the support of those colleagues who want this law to be effective in supporting these amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u110	Mr President, we have also tabled an amendment, but as our colleagues have also tabled one, extending it a little bit, we will withdraw ours and support that of our colleagues. Our motivation was really the state of mind of what constitutes microcredit. It exists in all countries of the world but especially in poor countries, Africa and India. The very principle of microcredit is precisely small amounts but with regularity. It seemed to us that a small amount with regularity that induces attention on the part of the borrower is important and that this kind of virtuous chain should not be interrupted. For us, in the area of microcredit, it is important to trust borrowers. This is how microcredit works around the world, especially through working women. It seemed to us that it was not a good idea to remove this limit. Continuing to encourage attention in the context of microcredit is a good measure. We will therefore support this amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the coronapandemic affects many families and businesses, as many colleagues have said. Fortunately, the various authorities are taking numerous measures. Because of the system of temporary unemployment and the right to bridge, we at federal level ensure that people do not suddenly lose their income. However, the corona crisis has led several families to see their income fall. Not everyone has sufficient financial resources to make it through the current period without tears. In order to give more breathing space to those who are now suffering loss of income, we have worked together with the PS and sp.a on a proposal to postpone payment on consumer credit. That delay gives more breathing space to people who are having a hard time right now. We must inform consumers very well about this and also clarify it. Creditors should also publish that possibility on their website. Consumers must be properly informed, because this measure also applies to the fact that there is no delay. There's gonna have to be paid, it's not a waiver. However, we have provided that no file costs, negligence or other costs are to be paid. The delay will extend the duration of the loan. The deferred interest will be offset either by a spread over the term or at the end. In recent weeks, many citizens have appealed to us to ask for a postponement. We therefore hope that consumers will be able to ask for a postponement from 1 May. This can be done on condition that the bill is published in the Belgian Official Journal in May, and we expect it to be published as soon as possible after the text has been adopted. Of course, we also hope that the scheme can start quickly in practice and that the logistical handling by creditors will be smooth. But over the last few days, we have received a lot of signals from the sector that this would be virtually unfeasible if any consumer credit, regardless of the amount, were also eligible for a delay in payment. For this reason, the CD&V Group wishes to support the amendment, which introduces a threshold of EUR 50, in the final analysis. I would like to thank all the colleagues from the Committee on Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda for the excellent cooperation and constructive attitude of everyone in the dossier. I hope that we will be able to proceed quickly with the postponement of consumer credit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the PS put the file on the table immediately because it was incomprehensible to us that, in terms of credits, we are moving forward for the owners, for the companies – the agreement with Febelfin on the postponement of mortgages and the postponement of the payment of loans to companies by the end of March 2020 – while nothing is being done for consumer credits. Consumer credit was therefore a serious problem for homeowners, but even more so for tenants, with cascading consequences. It should be noted that if two monthly instalments are partially or totally unpaid, one is ordered to pay the entire loan. And if, within 30 days of the notice, the borrower cannot repay all the arrears and the amount of the following monthly payment, the lender is obliged to denounce the credit. However, the consequence of this denunciation is serious for the borrower as the borrower's accounts are blocked for anything that is exceeded, and charges, penalties, interest on late payment are applied. It is also registered with the National Bank of Belgium. In addition, it is possible, by simple registered letter, to make assignments of granted receivables. It is therefore sufficient to send a letter to the unemployment fund or to the employer and this is done automatically. In addition, it is also possible to activate retention-of-title clauses. These are all cascading consequences with a major risk that the Corona crisis brings to the spiral of over-indebtedness the most vulnerable and vulnerable. This risk weighs on a large number of citizens. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, more than five million people have at least one current consumer credit. Many households have seen their income decline as a result of temporary unemployment or the total or partial interruption of self-employment. Credit companies on the lookout have already flaired the bargain and offer refinancing of loans at usury rates. The truth today is that no one has a clear and precise view of the extent of the problem. And because of this, the National Bank of Belgium only registers the contracts denounced. However, the denunciation can only take place after three months of unpaid payments. As confinement dates from March, this is expected to happen in late May, early June, so in the next few days. We can predict that if we do nothing, a mass of files will reveal themselves in the coming days – important factors and actors in over-indebtedness. Moreover, the debt mediation services confirm that we see the arrival of the first files of credit denunciation and notification of transfer of remuneration. It is therefore urgent to vote on this text. The text that is being put to the vote is a good agreement or in any case was a good agreement – I will come back to it in a few minutes, ladies and gentlemen. It was a balanced text, which made it possible to obtain almost unanimity in committee in order to respond to the urgency. In this framework, we have planned to target all credit agreements. The sector wanted to exclude loans with monthly payments of more than EUR 100. The anti-poverty associations, the associations that work with people in debt, the debt mediation sector, the consumer associations have convinced us that this is not a good idea. We socialists were convinced. I note that others are no longer so today. We plan to allow a credit suspension for a three-month renewable period of six months. That is also what we are doing in the area of mortgage credit. It's a good decision. In addition, the lender has an obligation to consent to the temporary suspension of the credit. It is, of course, also a very good decision. Postponement of payment therefore no longer results in negative filing with the National Bank of Belgium, while the lender is required to communicate on its website the possibility of postponing payment. So it was a good deal until a few hours or minutes ago. This was obviously not what the sector, Febelfin and the consumer credit companies wanted. Indeed, they wanted to limit the carry-over to a maximum of three months and exclude credits with a monthly amount of more than EUR 100. Similarly, they wanted the temporary suspension of payment to be a mere option left to the lender's free will. The Socialist Party and the anti-poverty and anti-overindebtedness associations, as well as consumer associations, did not want to go further. We would have wanted a grace measure of interest for the most vulnerable households, i.e. those whose income is less than 1,700 euros plus 300 euros per dependent child. In addition, we would have wanted much more active information from the lender as early as the first payment backlog and greater flexibility in the spread of interest after the deferral period. That said, in any compromise, we make decisions, then we cut ourselves off. It was therefore a balanced agreement, which would respond to the urgency. However, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, everything has changed since the tabling of the amendments which we discussed a few minutes ago. They bear the names of MPs who have chosen to marry this cause, consisting of setting a minimum threshold of 50 euros. This means that not all citizens whose monthly payments are less than or equal to this amount will be able to benefit from the measure. It is therefore quite paradoxical – and I would even say to you: truly scandalous. It is for two reasons. First of all, for thirty years at different levels of power, I believe that when a compromise is reached, it must be respected. It's a matter of loyalty. In politics, if an agreement reached as a result of harsh and difficult negotiations is not respected, we lose an essential value in our mission and function as politicians. The second reason is that these amendments must not bear the names of the Members who signed them. I'll give you the bottom of the maps of these amendments. These are the Unigro amendments, which have been lobbying Members and political groups for days to advance their cause. Not that of consumers, nor that of people who are in a vulnerable situation and who will be even more vulnerable tomorrow! Behind Unigro, there is the firm Saint Brice. This company explains to us, with its lobbyist talent, that serious administrative problems will arise, that it will not be able to do what is asked if this bill is passed without a threshold for the repayment of credits. She tells us that it threatens its viability. I have audited the accounts of this company, which are published at the National Bank of Belgium. They show, per year, a sum of five million euros. But it's structural, it's been like this for years, and it's not due to the coronavirus crisis, let alone the bill that we're about to vote with enthusiasm. Unigro and Saint Brice are actually the Cofidis group. And the Cofidis group is fine. Everything is fine, Madame Marquise, for the Cofidis group! It makes fifteen million profits! I would like to stress the concept of these 50 euros. For us, 50 euros is not much. We have a high salary – I didn't say we didn't deserve it, but it's high. So, of course, 50 euros, for our households, do not represent much. But the median income in Belgium is 1,600 or 1,700 net euros per month. And with temporary economic unemployment, people who earned 1,700 euros a month now earn 1,000 a month. On the other hand, they must continue to repay their consumer credit. We often realize that these people have needs, like everyone else. There's no question of stigmatizing them by saying they better not buy. Here are some examples. From the moment we were confined, children and adolescents could no longer go to school. These people sometimes had to buy laptops. The price of a laptop varies. I'll take Unigro's offers. A portable PC: 459 euros, to be reimbursed in tranches of 28.96 euros per month. Your refrigerator's broken down. You can't afford to pay another cash. So you're using this kind of company. Unigro offers a combined refrigerator-freezer for 599 euros, or 600 euros, with a refund of 34.44 euros per month. Your washing machine's broken down. You have to buy a new one. Here too, Unigro offers you a monthly credit of 28,33 euros for 449 euros. These are essential goods, costing the amounts I have just quoted. Those who repay these credits will not be affected by our bills. If they have two or three credits, they will be 100, or 150 euros to repay per month. And if they have a car, of course, the number will rise very strongly and the impact for these people will be powerful. In addition, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I went to the website of Unigro-Saint Brice-Cofidis, their pop-up, that is to say, what strikes immediately when you are on the site, are messages that make everyone believe that shopping is necessary. This is what it says: "Do your shopping. We offer you a credit." This credit is at 17.45% interest, Mr. President! This is how the most impoverished and vulnerable people in this country are treated by societies that have only the bitterness and the lure of gain in the mouth! I would like to conclude my statement on reports from the debt mediation services. We are told that the number of credit contracts signed by the same debtor with Unigro is very high. In 2017, we were told that one person had signed a number of instalment sales contracts with Unigro, i.e. about ten contracts for amounts below €1,250, i.e. two consecutive years with a rate close to 18.50%. A Unigro instalment credit is possible for the purchase of a bed by a 77-year-old pensioner who already has two other credits in progress. I've already talked about the rates. Once you've bought it from Unigro, you've got a lot of publicity and a lot of emphasis on buying on credit. Ladies and gentlemen, if we still have a surge of consciousness, it is time to tell us that we must make a decision that is in the general interest and not in the interest of some who put their pockets on the misery of the most vulnerable and the most impoverished!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u113	Mr President, allow me, like colleagues in the hemisphere, to express my concern about the many families affected today by the coronavirus. Today, a lot of people are temporarily unemployed. If we look at the reports that are getting more, more and more, then we can see that 180,000 jobs are being called into question permanently today, so social measures are insisting. It's our job as politicians to protect our people. As you know, I put an oral question to Minister Muylle on this at the time, because we regretted that consumer loans were not included in the measures previously taken on mortgage loans. As far as we are concerned, the present legislative proposal and its vote are not too early. The three-month extension is urgently needed. We will, of course, support the legislative proposal. The scope of the bill is wide. I would therefore very much like to repeat my plea in committee for the introduction of a minimum ceiling on consumer credit. We tabled amendments at the time. Mr Lacroix says that a minimum has never been mentioned. I regret that, because that is contrary to what has been discussed in committee, often on the substance. By the way, he thinks that's scandalous. I find that strange because he was right to point out that his original legislative proposal included a minimum ceiling of EUR 100. It is perhaps a moving insight that he has had this deleted, but I think his comment is a little too short. I think it is very important that the bill applies to those who really need it, to those who really need it. We must ask ourselves whether it makes sense to start a dossier burden for a EUR 10 per month credit. As you know, our initial amendment was aimed at a cumulative approach, per family, without talking about a ceiling per credit. However, that amendment did not succeed. On the other hand, we are pleased that the ceiling of EUR 25,000 in savings has been registered, because we consider it very important that the legislative proposal is in balance. We regret that, despite the debate on the minimum ceiling, no consensus has been reached. Nevertheless, we need to think very carefully today about this minimum ceiling, all the more so because we must avoid any administrative burden and a large rush for small-scale applications in the coming weeks. De facto, this would render the legislative proposal unworkable. No, Mr Lacroix, I am not being led by lobbyists, absolutely not. What is important to me is the common sense and balance to be found in every legislative proposal. We are a Social People's Party and we have already made many proposals in this hemisphere. No one can say that the Flemish interest would not be social if we supported such an amendment today. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our job, as a Member of Parliament or a politician, to protect consumers, but of course there are always two sides to that. First of all, we must now ensure that consumers get through this difficult crisis. We have been able to do this by means of many measures that have already been taken, but we can do so by adopting this legislative proposal, provided that it is well balanced for everyone. The downside of the coin is that we must also avoid increasing risk poverty and that consumers would build up debt. I am not talking so much about invoices, which we have referred to in another legislative proposal, but rather about debts, consumer loans and loans that would be contracted. We must avoid people getting into difficult situations at the least setback. That is a marginal remark I wanted to make, but we will, in any case, support it in the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when we experience a crisis, an unprecedented pandemic like this, all sectors are affected. While many economic actors are still waiting for answers, such as Horeca or the cultural or artistic environment, most households also suffer the financial consequences. Individuals have therefore not been forgotten. The government has already taken steps to help them cope with the shock, such as the postponement of mortgage credit, the suspension of water and electricity cuts and the suspension of evictions. But that wasn't enough. Indeed, many of them have lost part of their income due to confinement and are no longer able to honour the repayments related to one or the other consumer credit: car, bike, television, household appliances – we have heard about them – or computer equipment. These are as many goods often purchased on credit as the crisis of the VOCID-19 does not allow to repay. They also needed to be allowed to carry over these appropriations. It is true that the figures of the National Bank are quite clear: more than five million Belgians had at least one consumer credit outstanding in February 2020. Without falling into caricatures, Mr. President, let's take the example of a car salesman who earns about 2,100 euros a month. It has only 1,450 euros in economic unemployment. After paying his rent (750 euros), a consumer credit (400 euros), he has only 300 euros left per month. It's not a caricature. It's a reality. That is, therefore, the importance of the measure for our fellow citizens, and it is an indispensable breath of air. It is therefore for my essential group to support this measure, while insisting that it is temporary, exceptional and scheduled for a maximum of three months, renewable only once. To benefit from this carry-over, the borrower must also meet strict conditions (no late payment of more than one month on 1 April 2020) and at the time of application, the total of movable assets in all accounts (current accounts, savings accounts, investment accounts) must be less than EUR 25 000. It goes without saying that the granting of a carry-over in this context will not be treated as a delay in payment within the Centrale des appropriations de la Banque nationale. It is therefore a good measure and a good agreement for us to deal with the repayment of consumer credit maturities and thus avoid the risk that a series of households which so far had no problems would be tipped into the debt spiral. This should not, however, have a perverse effect on small businesses which, in turn, would be subject to administrative burdens for too small amounts. As Mr Piedboeuf said a moment ago, we first resubmitted our amendment so that this deferral of payment would only concern appropriations whose monthly repayments exceed EUR 50 per month. We already felt in committee that lower amounts would have a more limited impact on the family budget while the administrative and financial impact on the lender would be quite heavy. On the contrary, this threshold of 50 euros seems reasonable. I regret, of course, that he was not followed up in committee even though I find that, in the end, this is the reason that prevails since my colleagues from the N-VA and the CD&V are now tabling exactly the same amendment with this amount of EUR 50. It is better late than never, Mr President, and I welcome it because what matters for the MR is to be consistent, effective and pragmatic today. We therefore support the text in the best interests of the consumer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u115	Mr President, I would first like to return to Mr Van Lommel's speech. There is absolutely no question of Mr Lacroix's understanding of the future. In no version of any text of PS-sp.a there was a lower limit and certainly not a lower limit of 100 euros. We believe that this limit is far too high. We have been very consistent in that view. It would therefore be nice if you did not make any statements about texts that you have clearly not read thoroughly. Consumer loans must be paid. That is the most important starting point, including for our text. However, in addition to a health and economic crisis, the corona crisis must not become a social crisis. Many families are financially affected by this corona crisis. As their revenues fall, the expenditure remains the same and the invoices continue to come. On the basis of the proposal to postpone mortgage credit, we also consider it very important to vote today on the possibility of postponing consumer credit. Almost half of the population has a consumer credit running. In most cases this is about a remodeling loan or a car loan, but for a small part of the consumer loans it is about unexpected costs, such as a refrigerator or a freezer that breaks down and those families cannot pay immediately. The most vulnerable families, in particular, will then have to rely on consumer credit for such a purchase. By giving mortgage loans the right to defer, but also these current consumer loans, we are ensuring a comprehensive approach that can avoid household cuts. I would like to come back to Mrs Van Bossuyt's amendment. I understand her argument and the very difficult balance between the administrative burden on businesses and the threshold or limit to just reach the right target group. However, the most vulnerable families are those families that attract low consumer credit. For them, this delay is just as important. They should use small consumer credit with low payouts to finance those unexpected purchases. The payment is then often below 50 euros per month. According to the sp.a Group, EUR 50 is too high a limit, which means that we fear that the most precarious families, who have just been hit hardest, will have nothing at all and will also be excluded from this new legislation. That is why the sp.a. will not support the amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in exceptional times, exceptional measures. This is an exceptional period because we are experiencing an unprecedented health crisis which, by its magnitude and the duration of the confinement it has involved, has been accompanied by an economic and social crisis. This crisis puts a severe strain on all households which, already in normal times, tighten their belts to live a little dignifiedly. These are exceptional measures because the purpose of the proposed law is to grant to any borrower who suffers a loss of income due to the crisis of the coronavirus a postponement of the repayment of a loan or of a instalment sale for a period of three months, renewable once for a further period of three months. This will allow consumers to defer the repayment of their consumer credit for a period of six months, capital and interest at no charge, without interest on late payment or any other hidden costs. This is no more than supporting our fellow citizens who, partly or in whole of their income because of the coronavirus crisis, are no longer in a position to honour their credits. We planned it for mortgages, we had to do the same for consumer credits. These credits cover half of our population and are rarely contracted in a single way. That is why we cannot support the amendments which are intended to condition the postponement of the repayment to a minimum credit ceiling. This is simply to deny the reality of Belgian households today. As if the administrative burdens of some were worth more than the risk of insecurity of others? No. Today, we must protect the weakest and weakest here, they are the debtors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u117	Mr. Van Lommel, for a personal statement? Are you or are you being attacked? It is not because someone is called, that that person must respond, Mrs Pas, but one may.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u118	It's okay. Mrs Depraetere, you are making a number of accusations to me, but I blame you for the fact that when such legislative proposals come into the Chamber, homework can be done a little better in order to know what lives in society. Let us stop looking at everything one-sidedly. You are only looking at the consumer side, and it is also our concern to protect the consumer, but apparently it is always the practice of socialists to give everything for free, in a society where everything can and can. Someone has to pay the bill, and today we just want a bill that is in balance that meets concerns of various parties. That is our only concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u119	Is anyone else asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u120	Mr President, the legislative proposal was a very thorough basis for further work. That is also what we have done with the committee and a very good proposal has come out of it. So we have done our homework thoroughly, unlike your group, Mr Van Lommel, who has tabled an amendment which is absolutely impossible and impossible to implement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u121	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u122	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1155/7) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1155/7) The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u123	Annex V.Part 21 Anneleen Van Bossuyt cs (1155/8) • 23 – Florence Reuter cs (1155/8) Annex V.Part 22 Anneleen Van Bossuyt cs (1155/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u124	Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u125	Sustained: the amendments and Articles 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u126	Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u127	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u128	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u129	This is the supreme moment of every Thursday. I heard 14 members asking for an emergency. So there is no normal diet: everything is urgent! Non-emergency has become the exception, not the rule. This morning, I read the press, including Le Vif, where the underlying manoeuvres were discussed. If the urgent proposals are dealt with in the Conference of Presidents next Monday, they will then be placed on the agenda of next Wednesday's plenary session. Why not! Ladies and gentlemen, the first urgency is requested for the proposal No. 1226/1 by Mr Van Hees and Mr De Vuyst with a view to making payment deferred for mortgages by banks benefiting from the corona State guarantee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u130	Mr President, the title of the proposal is quite clear. At the moment there is no obligation, whereas this is the case for banks. In addition, the problem is quite related to the crisis of the corona. That is why we are asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u131	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u132	Mr Laaouej, you are asking for the urgency of legislative proposal No. 1235/1 imposing a ban on dismissal during the COVID-19 crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u133	Mr. Chairman, the events that we are experiencing at the moment illustrate quite well the urgency of this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u134	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u135	The urgency of the motion for a resolution No. 1236.1 by Mrs Rohonyi and Mr De Smet on the preparation of an emergency plan to facilitate the submission of a complaint and the protection of victims of intra-family violence or partner violence in the context of the COOVID crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u136	Mr President, as the text indicates, this proposal aims to put in place very concrete and rapidly mobilizable measures to help victims, whose numbers are increasing in these times of confinement and deconfinity, to seek and find help when they lodge complaints, but also in their effective protection. This is what France and Spain have done, who understood that these situations require urgent measures. And that's what allowed the victims to be helped. I would also like to point out that this motion for a resolution contains a measure included in a proposal for a resolution of the PS which was urgently received last Thursday. I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to be consistent and to support the urgency of this text. Let me conclude by saying that it is not a matter of deciding on the very substance of this text, but of recognizing that these situations deserve urgent solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u137	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u138	Mr Laaouej, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1237/1 amending the Law of 3 July 1978 on employment contracts in order to suspend notice periods during the Covid-19 crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u139	Mr President, this is a bill with a limited duration of application and linked to the crisis of the VOCID-19, which actually concerns the terms of employment contracts, in particular notice periods. It is therefore strictly limited to the period of the VOCID crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u140	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u141	Mr President, I would like to ask for the urgency of the proposal for a law amending the Act of 4 August 1996 on the welfare of workers in the performance of their work in order to extend its scope No 1238/1. As you know, the question of deconfinity, working conditions, the famous prevention guide that has been set up by the social partners, all this is a matter of debate. That is what we are talking about in this bill. This is obviously linked to the current health situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u142	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u143	Mr Laaouej, you are asking for urgency on the proposal for resolution No. 1240/1 highlighting the impact of the COVID-19 crisis on the mental health of the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u144	Mr President, this is a motion for a resolution in order to have with it a debate on the psychological consequences of the tenibility of work, particularly for healthcare workers. The latter may suffer stress-related consequences. Again, we are at the heart of managing the health crisis of VOCID-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u145	Mr President, may I make a suggestion to Mr Laaouej? Last week the urgency was accepted for a proposal with the same subject. Can this proposal be linked to it at the time of the discussion? Then the vote on urgency is superfluous.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u146	Is it sufficiently clear what the proposal is about?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u147	Mr President, it was on the proposal No. 1211/1 by Mrs. Els Van Hoof.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u148	That's what I'm thinking. Do we agree to attach this motion for a resolution to the proposal referred to by Mr Verherstraeten, who had obtained the urgency? In which case, a vote on urgency is not necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u149	Mr President, we agree on the urgency. As for the fact that we are discussing the two texts together, I do not know whether their object is the same. I understand the scope is the same. That the urgency for one value for the other seems quite consistent to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, we come to the urgency of the proposal for resolution No. 1241/1 by Mrs Vindevoghel and others, to take measures to protect women's rights. This is in line with the Défi proposal, isn't it, Mr Hedebouw? [[Assent]] The urgency of this proposal will then also be accepted. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u151	Mrs Fonck, you are asking for the urgency of the bill No. 1242/1 amending the Income Tax Code 1992 in relation to gifts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u152	Mr President, this proposal is in response to an appeal made by many associations and foundations who are also suffering from the crisis. One opportunity to support them is to further encourage donations. That is the objective of this proposal, obviously in connection with this difficult situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u153	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u154	The urgency is also requested for the proposal No. 1245/1 by Mrs Fonck and his associates, amending the Royal Decree of 12 June 2008 on the planning of the medical offer, in order to provide certainty to students studying medicine in 2020 and 2021 in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u155	Mr President, this concerns doctors who are soon to graduate. As you know, the file is still somewhat difficult. They will not necessarily receive an INAMI number to be able to exercise at the curative level. Yet they complete their six years of study. This concerns both Dutch- and French-speaking physicians. The goal is to be able to decide quickly, as they will graduate tomorrow. This is all the more important since these young people have been involved, as trainees, for several weeks to support caregivers, at the front, in hospitals. That's why it's important to be able to decide quickly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u156	Mr. Chairman, with the confidence we give the government, we are sure that it will find a solution in the next few days, so we do not support this emergency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u157	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u158	Mr Hedebouw, you are asking for urgency on the proposal for resolution No. 1246/1 to ask Elia for an additional study on the Belgian security of supply in the context of the implementation of the Capacity Compensation Mechanism (CRM) and the core exit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u159	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the whole discussion at the moment to ensure the supply of electricity in 2025 is whether we will extend nuclear power in 2025 or whether we are putting in place the capacity compensation mechanism, the well-known CRM of everyone. The problem of security of supply is not unanimous at all. Today, Elia's study on security of supply is the subject of a lot of comments from CREG, which leads us to believe that security of supply could be ensured without CRM and nuclear in 2025, as the CREG says. If the motion for a resolution requesting a supplementary study is adopted, the supplementary study could be carried out by adapting the electricity law. That is what this bill serves. That is why the two are linked and we also ask for urgency for the proposal here attached.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u160	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u161	The urgency is also requested for the legislative proposal No. 1247/1 of the same authors, amending the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market with a view to the legal authorisation in 2020 of an additional study on the Belgian security of supply in the context of the introduction of the Capacity Compensation Mechanism (CRM) and the core exit. Mr Hedebouw, you motivate urgency in the same way, I suppose? I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u162	Mr Laaouej, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1248/1 amending the law of 26 May 2002 on the right to social integration?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u163	Mr President, many of us are aware of the social realities at the local level, in particular, the burdens placed on the CPAS account and, above all, the public who, as a result of the coronavirus crisis, are now in a position to seek the support of these institutions. That is why we wish to have a discussion with the other parliamentarians on this subject. That is also why we are asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u164	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u165	Mr Lachaert, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1249/1 establishing a database at Sciensano in the context of the fight against the spread of the Covid-19 coronavirus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u166	This bill is known in itself. It is the basis for the contact tracing which the Communities must develop in order to identify contacts of persons infected with the COOVID-19 virus. This has been the subject of a power of attorney, but there must also be a legal basis, which must be voted on before 4 June in order to allow the Communities to engage in contact tracing. So this is an urgent legislative proposal, which should get through this Chamber as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u167	That's a real urgency. If I am not mistaken, the scheme will expire before 4 June if we do not have legislation. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u168	Mr Lachaert, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1251/1 on the use of digital contact detection applications to prevent the further spread of the coronavirus COVID-19 to the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u169	This is on the same subject. The contact tracing can be done not only by physical persons who call people, but also via an application. The Communities do not immediately intend to do so, but it may nevertheless be urgent to have a legal basis to allow this to be done by the Communities. If this crisis is triggered, an application could be developed. I would also point out that a resolution has already been tabled in the Chamber, in which the great principles were discussed. All the groups were then called upon to hold a parliamentary debate on a legislative framework that would not be taken by royal decision. For the same reason as the previous dossier, this is also urgent and should be dealt with by the Chamber of Representatives as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u170	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u171	Mr President, we also call for urgency for proposal No 1252/1, following the debate this afternoon. The horeca sector is one of the sectors most affected by the crisis. We wish to discuss this subject, as long as it awaits urgent action and clarity. I hope that we can discuss this very quickly and that decisions can be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u172	Mr President, we consider that Ministers Ducarme and De Croo are working well on this. They've met the area and they'll get out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u173	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u174	Mr President, the opinion of the Council of State is automatically requested on proposals Nos. 1249/1 and 1251/1? Those are the proposals on the database and on the app.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u175	That is why I am asking for the opinion. For the other proposals, I will have to take a closer look, unless someone asks for the opinion. For the proposals on the database and the app, as chairman, I will ask for the opinion of the Council of State. Let's get that straight.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u176	Mr President, in keeping with what my colleague Meryame Kitir has just requested, we have tabled amendments to the text on tracing. We ask that these amendments be sent to the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority for their opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u177	The amendments were tabled. If I have received them, I will also send them to the Council of State, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u178	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions on 8 May 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Social Affairs, Work and Pensions of 8 May 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 1/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Leen Dierick and Ms. Nahima Lanjri. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 1/ 1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Leen Dierick and Nahima Lanjri. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u179	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the death of a young partner of a young parent is not only a serious emotional issue, but also creates long-term administrative burdens, practical problems and, in many cases, financial problems. Because children who still have both parents can now enjoy twice as much a parent who is available through parental leave, and because relaxing the rules on parental leave for the longest-lived partner would make it easier to reconcile work and family life, which is an incentive for young widows and young widowers to be active or remain on the labour market, I asked the Minister to make it possible to transfer the unused parental leave of the deceased partner to the surviving parent in future. The Minister's reply was downright disappointing. She shared my concern, and said it was not part of her powers of attorney. Colleagues, the young widows and widowers have not been very helpful in this respect. The fact that it does not belong to the power of attorney seems to me to be all the more reason to vote against the simple motion and, by my motion of recommendation, to authorize the Minister to do exactly that. It points to the need for this motion of recommendation. Then the Minister can begin discussions with the National Labour Council on this matter. They can then work together to find a solution to enable the transfer of parental leave to the surviving partner. Please do not let them wait for the transposition of a directive in question in 2022 or later. For many of them, that will be figs after Easter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u180	Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u181	Yes 93 Yes No. 31 No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 146 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u182	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 128 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 146 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1181/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1181/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u183	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 147 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 147 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1161/9) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1161/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u184	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[115]] Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 31 Abstensions Total 147 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1163/9) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1163/9) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u185	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 147 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 149 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1213/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1213/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u186	Vote on Amendment No 21 by Anneleen Van Bossuyt cs on article 2. (1155/8) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Anneleen Van Bossuyt cs to Article 2. (1155/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 81 Yes No. 67 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 149 Total The amendment was therefore adopted. Consequently, the amendment was adopted. Article 2 as amended has been adopted. Article 2, as amended, was adopted. I understand that amendment No. Article 23 of Article 2 of Mr Reuter and Mr Friart was withdrawn. That should not therefore be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u187	Vote on Amendment No 22 by Anneleen Van Bossuyt cs on article 3. (1155/8) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Anneleen Van Bossuyt cs to Article 3. (1155/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 81 Yes No. 68 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 149 Total Consequently, the amendment was adopted and Article 3 was adopted. Accordingly, the amendment was adopted and Article 3 was adopted. In accordance with our Rules of Procedure, we cannot now vote on the whole of the amended legislative proposal. We'll have to wait five days for that. We'll have that vote next Wednesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-14-55-plenair-ip040x.u188	I would like to inform you that next week we will have a plenary sitting not on Thursdays but on Wednesdays. The Conference of Presidents will take place on Monday 18 May at 12.30 p.m. as agreed. We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 20 May 2020 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, May 20, 2020 at 2:15 p.m.
