ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u1	Colleagues, I declare the sitting open for a number of remaining questions and also for a number of new questions to Secretary of State Mahdi. We have until about 5 p.m. to complete our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u2	Mr President, first of all I would like to apologize to the interpreters. I ordered a helmet, but there's a stock shortage. I'm sorry about the lack of sound quality. Secretary of State, I wanted to ask you about Fedasil centres and private operators. In 2015, following the large influx of asylum seekers, Fedasil outsourced the creation of centres to private operators, including G4S, already at the time. However, we are no longer in this pattern. We learn via Fedasil that G4S will take care of the Kalmthout and Etterbeek centres soon, and another private operator, Umami, at Hasselt Center. These subcontractings are expensive. In England, reports have already shown that they are costly and reduce the quality of reception for asylum seekers. Mr Secretary of State, have other centres also been set up by private operators? Are other public procurements under way? As parliamentarians, could we have access to these public procurements, in the interests of transparency? What budgets have been made available for these centres? Are the minimum standards of supervision well met? In a structural way, is this a solution that you prefer for the next few years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, recently Fedasil decided to outsource some reception centres to the private sector. A new center in Hasselt will be run by Umami, an organisation that already caters in some centres. The centers in Kalmthout and Etterbeek will be run by G4S. This is the first time that this reception has been outsourced to market players, rather than to NGOs such as the Red Cross or refugee organisations. A 2017 study by the Public Services Union points to the risks of privatising public asylum and migration services. For example, the quality of certain services would be reduced and certain fundamental rights could no longer be guaranteed. The workers are often also poorly trained, so that the needs of the residents are not properly met. Quality standards are often too low and there is little possibility of public control. The health of the residents cannot always be guaranteed by the business model either. I have the following questions, Mr Secretary of State. Are there any other contracts in the pipeline with private players for the operation of reception centres? Is the same thing going on with closed centers? Is it possible for Parliament to access such contracts? How can you guarantee that such companies put the well-being of the residents at the centre, as they act on a profit-making basis? Are you not concerned about the quality of the service or the conditions of employment of the staff? Are there minimum criteria imposed on companies in this area? Do you see the use of private companies as a structural measure to ensure the capacity of the Belgian reception network? Finally, will you plan a screening in the private shelters?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u4	Thank you, Mr Segers, for referring to the written version of your question. That means that hopefully we will be able to deal with all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u5	But I fully understand that those who wish to ask their questions do so. Currently, three reception centres are run by private operators: the Etterbeek centre is run by G4S, the Marcinelle centre is run by My Assist, and, since Monday 26 October, the Hasselt centre is run by Umami. Another reception centre that will also be run by a private actor, G4S, is expected to open in the coming weeks in Kalmthout. In addition, three public procurement contracts have been published: two for emergency places, one for reserve places or buffer places. For the latter contract, which provides for 1,500 places, an evaluation of the initial offers is under way. In addition to the sites already mentioned, three other sites have been published: the Saint-Joseph reception centre in Liège, which is managed by G4S, the Jalhay site, which is managed by Svasta, and the Spa site, which is also managed by Svasta. As regards the first four sites and the reception of asylum seekers, an allocation of EUR 9,751,287 is foreseen for the year 2020. As for the last three sites for which the invitation to tender has not yet been made public, an allocation of EUR 5 479 092 is foreseen, still for the year 2020. In view of the openness of administration, access to a certain number of documents may be granted. However, access to tenders may be restricted due to the confidentiality necessary to protect the knowledge, expertise and competitive position of the tenderer. Minimum standards for reception are laid down in the public procurement framework for reception places. Several Fedasil services should give the green light for a centre managed by a private operator to actually absorb residents. Private operators are included by the operational services in the monitoring system applicable to all reception structures. Between four and six months after the opening, the Centre shall be subject to an audit by an auditor of the Agency. In passing, I would like to emphasise that private operators have already been called upon in the past. This never happens for closed centers. The same question was asked. Fedasil launched two public procurements in November 2019. The first, in an emergency, was to allow the opening of reception places at the beginning of 2020. The reception network was, at that time, completely saturated, as most of you already know. The pandemic-related health crisis has caused delays in the provision of these places and has led to a decline in the occupancy rate in the reception network. In view of the health situation in Belgium, and the case law on the registration of asylum applications, the Agency is currently analysing the needs of the network in the short and medium term, and may decide not to open, or postpone the opening of some of these places provided for in this first emergency public procurement. The Agency is committed to making its host network more dynamic, flexible and resilient. In order to achieve this, and to diversify the actors involved in the reception, it could rely on the structural participation of private actors in its overall management of buffer places.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u6	Thank you, Secretary of State. Your answer once again illustrates your willingness, already displayed in the press, to have a series of buffer places and to have an intelligent management of these Fedasil seats. The time when private operators had to be contacted was the crisis of 2015, followed by the crisis of VOCID-19. These crises have indeed required space. There is an urgent need for Fedasil to have a permanent and viable structure for staff or beneficiaries of places. I will personally pay attention to control. You mentioned an audit after four months. I think that when it comes to private operators, this control could perhaps be strengthened and exercised by parliamentarians. Let me worry about another subject that I care about. One of the companies contacted today for these subcontractings, G4S, is very often accused of breaches of international law. In particular, it is said to be co-responsible for part of the settlement in Palestine by the Israeli army. I refer to check-points and other elements of colonization. It is surprising, and perhaps damaging, that a society such as G4S is involved in welcoming migrants. I know that its activities are highly diversified, but I think we need to pay attention to the companies to which we give such important markets.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u7	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. You say that we should rely structurally on private players for buffering. To be honest, that bothers me a little bit. Instead of spending reception centres on private players and so slowly privatising our reception network, I think it would be better for the government to invest sufficiently in a reception policy. There are plenty of examples from abroad where the cost of care has increased, but quality for residents and staff has fallen sharply. The privatisation of our reception network is an evolution that the PVDA is strongly opposed to. I think it is necessary to look at the centres and to look at the contracts. If you are confident in these private centres, I hope you will have no problem giving them full transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u8	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. I had the impression that you answered the questions of my colleagues in particular. Many of my questions have not yet been answered. Maybe I'll put it back in writing. Perhaps you could give me that information after all? You will understand that when such public transfers are granted to companies specialising in monitoring or catering, we are on our guard and we demand that the agreements are all the better and control is done all the better. The public contract must also be very clear to us about the way in which guidance is to be provided. This information must also reach the municipalities so that they can take up their own role and also connect with all kinds of other bodies. I was also talking about asylum seekers with a psychiatric profile. This clarity must be made even more clear when it comes to assisting asylum seekers with psychological problems. Cooperation agreements must be assured in advance. If people with mental problems are to be cared for, they must know what they are doing. I would therefore very much like to know how we are working with psychiatric expertise teams. It goes without saying that agreements on this should be very clear and should be part of what is required. It can't just be something that comes with it. The same applies to agreements on children and the schools with which they cooperate. We need to make it very clear in advance how this is going to work. There should also be no doubt about the contact point for local government with the private partner and how accountability is ensured. There can be no doubt about all this. I therefore call on you, Mr Secretary of State, to deal with this matter in detail, so that there can be no ambiguity about it. In addition, I also read some alarming reports about guidance from certain private partners, which would show that it would be particularly minimal. I hope those messages don't add up. I also hope that you will check all this out. I call on you to provide full services, which you can ensure, monitor and enforce.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u9	"Mr President, Secretary of State, Europe has closed its external borders to fight the coronavirus epidemic, which has led to an unexpected drop in the number of asylum applications on the continent. Last April, the latter reached their lowest level in the last decade.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u10	Mr President, Mr Rigot, I am glad that you are giving me the opportunity to respond directly, which I will try to do in the most detailed way possible. Since March 2020, air activity in Europe has decreased sharply and borders have been closed, which has undoubtedly affected the possibility for refugees and migrants to arrive in Europe to apply for international protection. That said, the health measures and lockdowns that many European Union countries announced last March made access to the asylum procedure more complicated for those who were already on European territory. The administrations had to adapt to this new reality. At European level, a significant number of States had closed or restricted their services to the public or had restricted access, by prior notification or by setting an appointment by telephone or online services. This was also the case in Belgium. As a result, there has been a marked decrease in the number of applications submitted during the lockdown period. Since then, the number of applications has clearly increased again in equivalent proportions, for the month of September, to the number we could see in 2019 or in the first two months of 2020. To give you an idea, we went from 2,739 in January to 236 in April. It was 389 in May and continued to increase to 1,270 in August and 1,961 in September. Thus, an increase has taken place since April or even May. By 17 March 2020, registration activities had been suspended as the measures adopted by the government could not be fully respected both for the protection of applicants and for the protection of agents of the Office of Foreigners, interpreters and agents of Fedasil. From 18 March to 2 April 2020, numerous actions had been taken in order to be able to resume registration activities at Petit-Château as soon as possible and to avoid groups of people appearing at the same time. On 3 April 2020, a web form to request an appointment was posted online and an explanation was provided in different languages on how to complete the form. On 7 April, it was possible to resume registration activities gradually. If we saw some delays between their application and the date of their appointment at Petit-Château, these delays are much shorter today than before the summer. As soon as applications for international protection are registered by the Office for Foreigners at Petit-Château, applicants will have access to the reception on the same day. Applicants for international protection who have not yet been summoned by the Aliens Office for registration therefore, in principle, do not yet have access to material assistance. The current procedure is called into question following a judgment of the Court of First Instance which concludes that persons are entitled to a reception from the moment they make known their protection needs through the online form. The authorities have 30 days to comply with this judgment, as you probably know. It is for these reasons that I decided to change the digital recording model. I am currently in intense dialogue with asylum authorities to arrive at a system that ensures that applicants for international protection are no longer on the streets in these times of great health vigilance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. As you say, it is essential in the context that we know but also in the context that comes, the cold and the winter, to guarantee this fundamental right of access to reception for all those who need it. I am well aware of your willingness - and I congratulate you on that - to shorten the deadlines and to make the procedure simpler. In any case, let us not forget that the digital computer procedure cannot be a response to the needs of the field for the reasons we know: the digital divide, the inaccessibility of technology, the complexity of the language. In any event, we do not ask you to ensure that all applications for international protection are processed by the Aliens Office from now on, but that in any case all those who today make the need to be accepted are actually accepted. It is a right that must be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u12	"Mr. Secretary of State,
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u13	2. Resettlement is part of an EU long-term policy towards a better migration policy, as set out in the European migration agenda of May 2015. What is your position on the annual resettlement quota in Belgium?" Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no...................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u14	Mr Secretary of State, resettlement is in itself a very important measure in asylum and migration policy. Can you explain our country's commitments to resettlement for this year and the following years? What has been achieved in this area by 2020? Our country promised in the coalition agreement to implement the objectives. Are the necessary preparations being made, both with regard to the UN Refugee Organisation and the European Union and with regard to adequate reception capacity in their own country? After all, we all know that in recent years we have not succeeded in realising our commitments in this area and that we have been lagging behind. In fact, we have been a little too lax with regard to a form of migration that is very well framed and controlled and supervised by the European Union and the UN. It is a fairly pure form of migration but above all protection for the most vulnerable. I'd like to hear your vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I am glad to be able to explain my view on this very important part. I certainly agree with what you said, namely that this is an important part of the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that Belgium has not yet been able to fully meet the resettlement quota set for the period 2018-2020. For the period 2018-2029, the refugee quota to be resettled was 2,000, and for 2020, 758 people. Of this total quota of 2,758 people, 1,121 people arrived in Belgium. The programme has been seriously delayed because it has been suspended twice for a longer period due to the lack of reception places in Fedasil centres and ILAs where resettled refugees are accommodated after a stay in the reception centre. However, it is not yet too late to meet these resettlement commitments. They were taken as part of the European Union's resettlement programme. The deadline for the implementation of the commitments of 2018-2020 is 31 December 2021 by the European Commission, given the crisis of VOCID-19. Belgium will do everything in its power to fulfil its promise to resettle 2,758 refugees in a timely manner. This was already decided at a Council of Ministers of the previous government in early July 2020, where a number of measures had been taken to enable the resettlement programme to be relaunched. The government's coalition agreement explicitly confirms its commitment to achieving the objectives set for resettlement. In the meantime, the measures necessary for a recovery have been taken and, if measures concerning coronavirus permit, about 100 refugees will be resettled in Belgium in the weeks and months to come. I agree with the importance of resettlement as a secure means of providing protection to the most vulnerable refugees in need of international protection, as also stated by the Commission in the recently published Pact on Migration and Asylum. In my view, resettlement is part of the overall approach to a successful asylum and migration policy. In addition to providing protection, it is also a way of showing solidarity with third countries hosting large groups of refugees. I am therefore in favour of continuing the Belgian resettlement policy with an annual quota, within the framework of the European Union, and in close cooperation with UNHCR. Mr De Vriendt, we are talking to the authorities concerned to speed up the resettlement to which Belgium is committed. In this case, it concerns the resettlement of the most vulnerable refugees who really need protection. They were selected for this long ago and have therefore already had to bear a great deal of patience in very difficult circumstances. At European level, we will argue for an ambitious resettlement programme to provide protection for those most in need. In consultation with UNHCR and on the basis of our own capacity, we are looking at how these plans can be made quickly and effectively. I am also convinced that the resettlement programme is a way to tackle part of the migration problem and to help people who are looking for shelter and need it effectively. It must also make it clear that the European Union wants to show solidarity in this respect. So it is also a way of combating illegal migration and one of the ways in which Europe, and therefore Belgium, should make the most of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u16	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. As you said, it is essential to meet the needs of the most vulnerable. Yes, it's a fact, our network has been saturated. Similarly, it is certain that the anti-COVID measures did not help. We know that FEDASIL has motivated, available and willing teams to accommodate these people and to fulfill the resettlement mission. In addition, the public waiting for this reception is the most vulnerable. For this reason, every effort must be made to react as quickly as possible and certainly consider other options, and why not by increasing our reception capacity, in order to meet our commitments. Behind these, I recall that there are men and women. That is why I am really counting on you, Secretary of State, to quickly unblock the situation, because they are waiting at our borders, waiting for an answer that offers them some hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u17	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I think that your words clearly echo a sense of urgency. You have clearly given Parliament your commitment to achieving our country's objectives effectively. You have expressed your commitment not only to the Belgian objectives, but also to the European framework, in which we will be active and voluntarist. For us, this is an illustration of a new balance that we are trying to find in our asylum and migration policies. The protection of the most vulnerable and the taking up of our international responsibilities are indeed part of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u18	Mr President, Secretary of State, the European Commission is moving forward on the establishment of a new European migration pact. Mrs von der Leyen announced her ambition to reach an agreement in December. In this context, can you tell me, Mr Secretary of State, what instructions have been given to the Belgian Permanent Representation and the positions it stands for in the Committee of Permanent Representatives (Coreper)? Can you also let me know what positions Belgium has taken in the Council, on the understanding that support in principle for the necessary development of European procedures is indeed required and enshrined in the government agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u19	Mr President, Secretary of State, the European Commission has presented a new European Pact on Migration and Asylum. This new pact is the result of lengthy negotiations between the 27 Member States of the Union, where there has been a great deal of disagreement on the migration issue for many years. In our view, we must achieve a balance, a fair sharing of responsibilities. Moreover, solidarity between the Member States must be put into practice. The new pact proposes, in particular, to reform the Dublin regulation which prevails in the field. It provides for more frequent controls at the external borders of the European Union, the formation of a permanent border and coast guard contingent, a facilitated repatriation procedure and the creation of a comprehensive integration and inclusion action plan for the period 2021-2024. In this context, the German Minister of the Interior, Horst Seehofer, said that a ministerial meeting was planned for 13 November in Brussels to discuss all these aspects. Moreover, it would appear that the German Presidency of the Council of the European Union will, as early as December, seek political agreement on the main elements of the Pact on Migration and Asylum. Mr Secretary of State, I know that you have only taken up your duties very recently, but could you give me your overall impression of the Commission's proposal? The Pact provides for accelerated processing of applications for migrants who are unlikely to obtain protection. I am thinking in particular of economic migrants. It appears that an accelerated process to return these migrants to their countries of origin would be planned. Do you think that a country like Belgium can manage a process which, according to the pact in draft, is supposed to make a decision within a very short period of time, namely 12 weeks? In short, this deadline is much tighter than for cases opened in Belgium. Solidarity is a principle we expect from the European Union. Some countries will host refugees, while others will pay for the return of rejected asylum seekers. Do you think that Belgium could show solidarity with Italy and Greece? Indeed, these two countries are those in which the most refugees arrive on the front line. How, then, would this solidarity mechanism be expressed, the application of which has often been demanded by Greek and Italian leaders?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u20	Thank you, Mrs Gilson. Mr. Minister of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u21	Secretary of State, Mr. President! Not yet a minister, even if one can hope for it one day! Mrs Gilson, Mr Rigot, thank you for your questions. The European Commission is proposing a new Pact on Migration and Asylum, which brings together all the aspects necessary for a comprehensive European approach to this issue. This pact includes procedures that will be improved and accelerated throughout the asylum and migration system. It also struck a balance between the principles of equitable sharing of responsibilities and solidarity. No Member State should bear the full burden. The Member States at the external borders of the European Union, such as Italy and Greece, bear an important burden, as we know. Belgium will make a substantial contribution to the European Solidarity and Relocation Programme in support of these Member States. We expect others to do the same. During its presidency of the European Union – that is, now – Germany has increased its pressure on Member States to discuss migration issues. The Presidency is considering an agreement next December on the main political guidelines for border procedures, the prevention of abuses of the asylum system and solidarity. The work of the current Presidency will thus provide a solid basis for the following Presidencies to begin discussions on the legal texts. Targeted debates, including on deadlines, must therefore be organized. Belgium, for its part, believes that faster procedures are needed. A Europe Agreement is an opportunity to undertake reforms. This is a long-term work. It supports the Presidency's approach and is voluntary in order to reach agreement on key principles in December and to complete certain legislative tools such as Eurodac and the European Asylum Support Office. On 8 October, I represented Belgium at the informal videoconference of the Ministers of the Interior on matters relating to the Migration Pact. I have communicated to the other nations that Belgium welcomes the proposals of the European Commission and that it would present itself as a constructive partner. I welcomed the balance achieved by the Commission in this package. We share the vision and values proposed therein. At the same time, we realize that the political will and good faith of all Member States will be crucial to the success of the reform. In cooperation with the national services and the representative of the coalition, we have prepared the Belgian position in the technical working groups of the Council and Coreper which will take place in the coming weeks. Belgium acknowledges that the current system is no longer working. We agree with the Commission that the European Union must abandon ad hoc solutions and put in place a predictable and reliable migration management system. Belgium believes that control over migratory flows must be regained and that a comprehensive approach is needed to this end. This approach must also be based on European values and be consistent with international law and fundamental rights. Effective border procedures and an efficient return policy as well as good cooperation with third countries are key elements of a reformed and integrated policy. At this stage, we have questions for the Commission. However, Belgium questioned the financial aspect and asked whether the multi-annual financial framework of 2020-2021 would be able to cope with the implementation of the Pact. Belgium also calls for attention to be paid to the operational aspect, as the challenges are enormous in terms of implementation. An operational roadmap will therefore have to be considered in order to prepare for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I believe your speech is committed and determined. That's what we need today. Indeed, as you say, what is needed is a consistent, coherent, united and just Europe. We can't do anything and we can't do anything. There is a need for a proactive policy that is certainly not only mandatory for some European countries. That's the message you have to carry. Europe either adheres to it or does not adhere to it. We take everything that goes with this Europe or we don't commit ourselves to it. That is the message that we, Belgium, must carry tomorrow. We don't shop by taking what's right for us. We also have a Europe that must be social, humane, responsible and where everyone invests in the means available, but when a common position is adopted, it must be applied. That's really the message I hope you'll carry. I can hear it. He's here. You have this will that you will be able to bring tomorrow to the level of Europe so that everyone takes their share of responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u23	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for all these explanations. I fully agree with the position that you have already presented and that you will continue to defend. For many years, we have seen a flow of migrants arriving in Italy and Greece and having to be welcomed by countries that were often alone in this situation. On the other hand, we have this rule which provides that the application must be made in the country in which the migrant first arrived. As we have seen here in Belgium, migrants did not want to return to that country to apply for asylum and thus found themselves here in a kind of no man's land, because they did not manage, for a time, to travel to the country to which they wished to go, as for example to England. We had this regulation that we haven't evacuated yet. If we are moving towards this new pact proposed to us by the Commission and which you want to support, it will finally be a bubble of oxygen to manage these migrations and no longer have a regulation that will close unacceptable humanitarian situations, which we have experienced in recent years. So I really encourage you in this direction and thank you for your explanations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u24	Mr Secretary of State, pending the recruitment of the new Director General, Mr Luxen's term of office has been extended by the Council of Ministers on several occasions. Fedasil has been waiting for his new Director General for a long time. Moreover, the Selor launched the recruitment procedure in September 2019. Mr Secretary of State, what are the steps in the recruitment process for the new Director General? Why is this selection delayed? Did you select a winner to take over this position? When are you planning to appoint the new Director General to head Fedasil by the Council of Ministers? On the understanding that I welcome the work that has been carried out by Mr Luxen so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u25	Mr President, Mr Rigot, I hope to be able to satisfy you a little with my answer, which is limited to saying that we were in business and that, therefore, it was not possible to make the effective appointment of a Director General for Fedasil. A candidate aptitude test has already been conducted by Selor, as you yourself have said, and I will shortly be taking care of the appointment of a new Director General. Then I'll come back to you. I can only confirm what you have already said, namely that Mr Luxen has done and is still doing a remarkable job. I would also like to point out that. For the rest, I hope to be able to give you more news soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u26	Secretary of State, I understand your answer, which is not simple. But the expectation of the answer for the whole administration, for Fedasil, is not simple either. You can't tell me today when or who, but in the meantime, can you tell me who is going to take on the role of captain in the coming months? Is that Mr. Luxen? Otherwise, what are the alternatives? I think it's important for everyone to know where we're going, at least in the short term. Future prospects are also important. I would just like to point out this because, behind it, there are teams that are at the front and need vision. There are also candidates who have applied and an outgoing Director General who, I imagine, is also waiting for a certain appeasement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u27	Mr Secretary of State, 170 squatters are currently occupying an abandoned office building in Jette, most of whom are transit migrants. The owner doesn't know where to send the people, nor does the municipality. There's already been five COVID-19 cases in the building. On Monday morning 19 October there was a consultation between the municipality, the Region and the federal government about where the homeless migrants should go. Today I read that the building needs to be evacuated. That's what the judge decided after Damian action, the owner of the building, started legal proceedings. The judge ordered the evacuation, referring to the large number of people currently using the building and to the disastrous health and safety situation in which they are located. Mr Secretary of State, I have the following questions. Were you present at the meeting of 19 October with the municipality, the region and the federal government? What is the outcome of this consultation? Has any solution been found for these homeless migrants? What is your concrete plan of action? What concrete measures are being taken to deal with the 5 COVID-19 cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u28	Mrs Safai, I can confirm that an advisor to my cabinet took part in the meeting, which took place online in view of the COOVID-19 pandemic. We are therefore aware of the situation. However, I can only act on the basis of my powers and they are quite limited in this matter. From my powers, I am cooperating in finding a solution. We have therefore stressed that the best solution is to convince those who have the right to asylum to apply for asylum. They will then be entitled to material reception in the reception structures of Fedasil or one of the reception partners. There has already been a Reach Out team of Fedasil on site. This team shall inform the parties concerned of the existing reception or guidance possibilities for voluntary return. Furthermore, the Department of Foreign Affairs can provide assistance in identifying and, if necessary, repatriation. I am not responsible for receiving people without papers, recognised refugees and/or homeless people. This is primarily the responsibility of local government and the Region. It is only in the second line that the federal government is responsible for this, through the powers of Social Integration and Combating Poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u29	Mr Secretary of State, you can of course only do what is within your remit, but it is very important to know who these people are. If they are here and ask for protection, they must, of course, apply for asylum. If they have not applied for asylum, they must leave. That's what you're doing. I will also follow it up and see what the result will be. They have to evacuate within eight days anyway. It's important that these people don't get lost. You may be able to go faster and ensure that those people are either sent back if they live here illegally or are taken in when they apply for asylum.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u30	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I in turn congratulate you, albeit a little late, on your appointment. I would have liked to say my congratulations last week, but that was not possible at the time. Mr Secretary of State, an EU citizen is obliged to register with the municipal administration of his place of residence within ten days of his entry into our country. However, there is an exemption for the EU citizen when he goes on a stay, for example in a hotel or a B&B, when he is hospitalised because he needs treatment, or when, at worst, he has been detained and is in a prison. European legislation allows Member States to impose an obligation on EU citizens to report their presence on their territory and to register by the authorities if they wish to stay there for more than three months. However, the reporting obligation for an EU short stay only exists today in our country and in Cyprus, Liechtenstein, Malta, Slovakia and the Czech Republic. All the other countries in the European Union have now abolished this obligation. Mr Secretary of State, that is why I have the following questions. Firstly, would you, like all the other Member States, also consider abolishing the reporting obligation for an EU short stay in Belgium? Secondly, what procedures are needed to make this possible? Do you have a view of the time span and the minimum time associated with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u31	Mr President, Mr Moyaers, thank you for your question and, above all, for your congratulations. A week later or not, they've always come. I hope I won't disappoint you for the next three and a half years. I will also try to do this with your first question, which is addressed to me, by replying as follows. EU citizens, even if there is a fundamental right to free movement, are also subject to the current rules on short stays. Entry or short stay may be refused, inter alia, in cases of threat to public policy or public health or also in cases of fraud. A stay of more than three months is allowed for an EU citizen only in the case of employment or study in Belgium, where the EU citizen proves that he or she has sufficient means of subsistence and therefore will not be covered by Belgian social assistance. As a job seeker, the EU citizen must demonstrate that he is genuinely looking for work and that he has a real chance of doing so. The Court of Justice of the European Union ruled that six months in this respect is a reasonable period. The notification to the municipality is intended to know the presence of the EU citizen, where he or she will stay and to verify that the above conditions have been complied with. It is a measure that helps to know who is staying in Belgium, and that seems important to me. I see more advantages than disadvantages in this notification and will not therefore abolish this obligation to notify. An amendment to the current rules requires an amendment to the Foreigner's Act of 15 December 1980. This will be done in accordance with the current legislative procedure in the Federal Parliament. The Foreign Affairs Order of 8 October 1981 will then have to be amended. This does not have to go through Parliament and can therefore go faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u32	Mr Secretary of State, I am asking this question because, as mayor of a small municipality, I often encounter this problem. I live in Herk-de-Stad, the gate on Haspengouw, a fruit region as you know. Fruit growing is very often accompanied by seasonal workers. This entails a huge administrative burden, both for the administration of the municipal administration and for your officials in the Foreign Office and for the EU citizen himself. To give you just one idea: for a small municipality like mine, 600 faxes and files are soon to be drawn up each year. Then I am not talking about all the larger fruit communities around Herk-de-City. I would like to ask you to examine whether the obligation to notify can be avoided at least for seasonal workers, which is already the case almost everywhere in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u33	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I believe that everyone was very impressed by the murder of Mr Paty, the French teacher. As a result, neighbouring France has announced many additional measures against radicalisation and extremism. For example, the French Foreign Minister proposed the immediate expulsion of a few hundred radicalised Muslims. I would therefore like to ask you whether you are planning such measures in your own country. Mr Secretary of State, do you have any idea whether such a problem could arise in our own country? Do you know about radicalised Muslims in this country who are at risk? What is the residence status of those persons? What's your plan of action? Do you plan similar actions as your French colleague, in particular to simply expel such radicalized Muslims from the country, withdraw their residence status and no longer accept it? Have you or your predecessor completed such withdrawals of residence status in the last year? What else are you doing in general to prevent incidents such as those in France here?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u34	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, I would like to begin by thanking you for your question, because this is a very important matter and your question gives me the opportunity to emphasise the government's position and also my personal position. I am Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, but this issue is about much more than just strangers. It is also a question of what scope we leave to people with extremist and violent extremist thoughts in our society. Of course, I am also particularly impressed, I suspect, by the events in France, not only in the case of Samuel Paty, but also in the case of what has happened in France over the last 24 hours. Let me make it quite clear that we are reasonable in society, and I suspect that as everyone will understand it, we must unite in the fight against extremes, against any form of violent extremism. We must not let our society be torn apart. I certainly won't let that happen in my department. Anything I can do to fight it, I will. Now, the Aliens Act provides that entry or residence may be refused or revoked for reasons of national security or public order. This also applies to persons with an international protection status. The law also provides for administrative measures, e.g. detention in a closed centre for removal from the country. In order for the Foreign Affairs Office to be able to take these measures, it is necessary to have the right information in the area of radicalism and terrorism. Since 2016, there has been a cell of Radicalism at the Foreign Affairs Office to centralise and manage the information about aliens who are radicalised or who pose a threat to national security, or who are known in connection with terrorism. That cell tracks the sensitive files and is the contact point for State Security, ADIV, federal police, OCAD and FPS Justice. Rather, it is these institutions that can give a comprehensive picture of the problem in Belgium. As I said, I'm Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. From my position, I cannot give you an overview of the identity of the radicalized Muslims in Belgium. Nor can I tell you what residence status most of them have. What I can and will do is apply the aforementioned possible measures of the Alien Law in the next legislature. Persons without a right of residence in Belgium will have to leave the country. As you can see in the coalition agreement, priority will be given to the expulsion of foreigners who pose a danger to society. Each dossier shall be examined on an individual basis on the basis of the information received. If an analysis of the file shows that it is appropriate to take an administrative measure, this will be done, for example by withdrawing the right of residence. As far as the statistics you are asking for in your fifth question are concerned, I propose that they be requested not orally but in writing. I would like to answer your questions, but for questions about figures it is best that we deal with this in this way. Then I'll be able to answer as best I can. The strategy of the fight against radicalisation is set out by the FPS Justice and the FPS Home Affairs. So I would certainly advise you to ask my colleagues about this. The Department of Foreign Affairs participates in the Plan R and participates in working groups on asylum and migration. I repeat what I said earlier: make sure to ask my colleagues in the Justice and Home Affairs field. This is an important issue, and at least this government will do everything in its power to step up the fight and ensure that this fight is dealt with properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u35	I will certainly request the figures in writing, no problem. I will certainly ask your other colleagues. However, I would have expected you to do so, as you are competent to return extremists, for example. You are authorized to withdraw your stay, if possible, for reasons of security or public order. You are authorized to hold such persons in closed centres and to decide to do so. So you can also request this information from your colleagues in the Cell Radicalism and take the necessary action, as your colleagues in France have done. If that is what you expect from me, I would certainly like to ask your colleagues for that information, so that you can do what you need to do. You say that the priority is for people with no residence status. However, this is sometimes also about people with a residence status, as you yourself said. That residence status can simply be withdrawn if there are security and public order problems. That seems to me to be the case in such cases. I would have done that myself. Your areas of competence include the return of extremists and the retention of such persons that pose a danger to our society. You want to tackle polarization. This can be done better with concrete actions than with woolly talk. You can ask who exactly is on our territory. Then you could have mentioned numbers today. Then you could just take action against people who are holding our society hostage, people who actually have no place here. Then you could simply send a strong signal to our society that such people who come here to undermine our values and standards and undermine our democracy have no place here. I'll certainly do the right thing. Hopefully you will follow up and remove such people from the territory, as France has done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u36	Mr President, I refer to the question put in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u37	Mr Segers, I will try as best I can to answer your question. The fact that I did a little less well with your other very punctual questions earlier has to do with the fact that you are asking very detailed questions and a lot of questions, which the administration sometimes has the impression that we can do better when some of your questions are put in writing. Let me be clear, I am committed to answering your questions, but the best way to do so and to be able to give a concrete and detailed answer to all your questions is by submitting in writing the questions that you yourself feel may need some more study work and figures. I'm getting to the point. Since 1 September, 1,213 tests were carried out, 3 tests were refused and 38 were positive, which gives a percentage of 3 %. All positive test subjects shall be placed in isolation. The insulation zone can be flexibly adapted to the number of persons to stay here. The demand for an overview of the week-to-week evolution of the number of infections in the registration centre and the entire collection network is a demand for figures. It seems to me that you should put it in writing. The Agency continues to adapt the guidelines for the centres on the basis of changing circumstances and the guidelines of the Public Health Office and the National Security Council, always in line with Sciensano. This has kept the situation under control over the past period. In the meantime, we have a good view of the possible development of COOVID-19 in the reception centres. We see that with the right approach we can ensure that the outbreak can be contained relatively quickly. Once again, the safety rules in the reception centres will be strengthened, taking into account the general recommendations of the public authorities. Testing is, of course, an essential component. Due to the high pressure on the testing centres and laboratories, the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Public Health decided to temporarily suspend preventive testing. However, because a continued commitment to preventive testing of asylum seekers is crucial for me, I have incorporated the specific situation of my department with corona Commissioner Pedro Facon and the responsible bodies at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health. Yesterday, the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health then decided to update the testing strategy. Residents of our residential structures who had close contact with someone who tested positive for corona but showed no complaints can be tested on day 5 after the day of close contact with a positive tested person. In case of a negative test result on day 5, the quarantine stops 2 days later. In case of a positive result on day 5, an isolation of at least 7 days applies. I do not have the authority to deal with urgent medical matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u38	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the information. I have deliberately chosen not to put the questions in writing, because action is now needed, given the second wave and the rising levels of contamination. After all, numbers do not help us any further. Monitoring is now needed to see the problem, so that action can be taken. I must say that I am concerned that the figures are not immediately available. I am very pleased with the passage in the government agreement on the testing and treatment of persons without legal residence. We were asking for that, by the way. The emphasis is placed on outreach and public service support. We thank you, by the way, for your commitment. On the ground, however, a lot of people are inundating and additional capacity has had to be provided to meet the demand. There are also many questions related to corona in organizations that work with people without legal residence. It is always stressed that the wave is different, because winter is coming. People see much more despair and desperation. It is also noted that testing and reimbursement are particularly complex for the organisations in the field. There is also insufficient shelter and one can only stay in one's barn if one has a barn. I am also told that there is a real lack of coordination of actions for the target group. It is said that few lessons have been learned from the first wave. That is why I found it important that the above passage from the coalition agreement should be included in the chapter on Asylum and Migration. Also at the first wave I tried to ask a large number of questions about testing and treating people without legal residence. The Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration then rather quickly refused to be authorized and I was sent from the cabinet to the wall. I therefore welcome the fact that it is now covered by the chapter on Asylum and Migration, which means for me that you can play a coordinating role, including with regard to persons who may be slightly more competent for certain items than you are. It is really necessary to work closely together and to set up consultations between the various daily services, food distributors and hygiene services. This will enable us to develop a global strategy. Unity of command is needed, this also applies to a large extent here. I'm sure you'll work on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u39	Mr Segers, unaccompanied minors are a particularly vulnerable group, which deserves special attention, a special approach and protection. The coalition agreement rightly goes into more detail on the issue. I will pay strict attention to it in my policy. At present, the rate of occupancy of unaccompanied minors is 118.82 % in a first phase and 95.43 % in a second phase. Since June 2020, the Agency has therefore been confronted with a serious saturation of the reception network with regard to unaccompanied minors. Following the temporary closure of the Notification Centre in the first COVID19 lockdown period, the influx of unaccompanied minor foreigners increased daily. At present, the first and second stages of reception are saturated, as you can understand from the figures. In the first reception phase, 83 young people are received outside the regular observation centres for minor applicants for international protection. The Agency plans to create additional capacity in the short term, both in the first and second stages. Any unaccompanied underage stranger who signs up will receive shelter. In order to ensure this, Fedasil was forced to take measures. These measures concern, on the one hand, measures to increase the number of reception places at an initial reception stage and, on the other hand, measures to speed up the flow from that first stage. In the first instance, the crisis capacity of the three regular observation and orientation centres that entered into force in December 2019 was maintained. In addition, the number of reception places in the first phase was increased by using the entire OOC capacity of the reception centre at Sugny, which covers 20 places... and by creating temporary OOC places in the second reception centre for unaccompanied minor aliens in Overijse................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In these places, all unaccompanied minors receive observation and orientation. To meet the high influx, the pre-collection capacity was also increased by 15 places in SAM (...) and 40 places in the login centre. In view of the saturation of the first and second stages of reception, young people from the age of 16 years onwards shall be sent sufficiently autonomously and without specific vulnerabilities with age doubts from the observation and orientation centres to the second stage of reception at an adult site, pending the organisation and the results of their age test. For young people aged 17 and over, this is a direct allocation. If the results confirm that the younger is underage, he flows to the wing for unaccompanied underage foreigners. If the young person is considered to be a adult, he flows to another adult place. Young people with doubts about their age are received in a separate room together. This seems to me to be the best way of preventing the arrival of adults in a centre where young people are very vulnerable. The Agency is currently considering withdrawing these two instructions and preparing another instruction on direct allocation from 17 years of age onwards: if a young person is sufficiently autonomous and there are no specific vulnerabilities, there is a referral to the second reception phase on unaccompanied minor aliens places for autonomous young people with a framework for unaccompanied minor aliens. The task force on unaccompanied minor aliens I don't like to use the abbreviation in this regard, and it was called up again a first time on July 13, 2020. There was an exploratory conversation that looked at how the task force could be restarted and what finality. I have no knowledge of which dossiers were discussed in concrete terms, but at the moment there are no centralised figures on disappearances, because there is no centrally managed database. As a result, each body has only its own statistics, all of which are partial, incomplete or not accurate enough. The Voogdij and thus Justice are competent to decide whether or not to appoint a guardian, and the presence of the Voogdij service. However, it is clear to me that, as far as the follow-up to disappearances is concerned, there is still a clear need for further progress. I will therefore soon look at what is possible here with all the actors involved, because I personally consider the issue to be extremely important. We cannot delay in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u40	Thank you again, Mr Secretary of State, for your commitment. I was particularly upset by the Essex affair a while ago.... I am still... and all that has gone wrong there. As far as the succession of unaccompanied minors is concerned, therefore, a great deal of progress can still be made. I therefore welcome the coalition agreement once again, because I very much take the problem to heart. I will look very closely at it and you can expect a lot of questions from me on this, although of course I am confident that you will continue to do so. I hope you will also be working on my two suggestions, in particular the consistent appointment of guardians immediately in order to obtain a specialization and the involvement of the Voogdij service in the registration centre. Those measures together with the FPS Justice can make a real difference. I also say that I am very affected by the disappearance last summer of the five-year-old Achmad. It landed at Zaventem Airport in June, in the company of a man. They were both from Greece. The next day that man left for Greece again, but this time without little Achmad. Since then, there's been no trace of the boy. That is, of course, a very difficult problem. Since such young children can enter the country, it is of course important that all services in the field also know the law of custody and the operation of the Voogdij Service. Your commitment to this is also very important. Sometimes it happens that such a boy is housed with family, who now takes care of him. The identification of the boy as an unaccompanied minor can then be done in different ways, via school, via the CLB, through a doctor who is asked for help or through a hospital. It is therefore common for these children to live in hiding for a while and then, by chance, to enter the system of custody. Ultimately, it is always important that the protection system should be able to do its job as soon as possible in the interests of the child. In hiding life certainly also has a huge impact on the child. I am therefore again counting on you and your services to do everything in their power to enforce the law of custody.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u41	Mr President, Mr Segers, thank you again for your question. It's a lot about COVID-19, which is right. I am glad that this is also about COOVID-19 in committee. Fedasil shall bear the medical costs as from the award of a code 207. The completion of the registration form is in practice used for several purposes and does not necessarily mean that an application for international protection will be made. Consequently, it cannot be inferred from the mere completion of this form that the Agency is competent to reimburse the medical costs. In reply to your second question, I can tell you that this depends on the administrative situation of the person concerned. If code 207 is granted, the Agency will bear the medical costs. I can also reassure you that the problem will not arise again soon. As you know, the Brussels Court of First Instance has held that the completion of the online notification form can indeed be equated with making an application for international protection and that the impossibility of immediate access to material aid should be eliminated. As you know, the Belgian State has been given 30 days to work out a new arrangement, at the latest at the beginning of November 2020. We are in consultation with the services concerned, in order to make it possible again for an applicant for international protection to be immediately charged by Fedasil as soon as an application is made. Medical costs will be borne by Fedasil.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u42	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, this question concerns the Diallo judgment, an important judgment that was dropped about a year ago. In Belgium, an application for family reunification which was not answered in nine months automatically led to a positive decision. If the administration had not had time to look at an application and there was a serious problem at the Access and Stay Service, a positive decision automatically followed. Now it is calm there because there were few visa applications, but when I was Secretary of State, it was very busy there and sometimes that deadline was exceeded or it was very difficult to reach that deadline. I understand from the services that it is a little better now, but that is also a consequence of corona, so the situation can be completely different within two years. Extra money was promised, but there never was. I have a question about the budgets later, so we can talk about that later. It is annoying to have to make an automatic positive decision, because one does not know who is allowed in if one has not looked at whether it is a sham marriage or perhaps someone with bad ideas about our society. In this case, we are dealing with the fried pears, but, of course, they are politically responsible. It's best to avoid it. The Diallo judgment of the European Court of Justice says that a reply must be given within a reasonable period of time, but it is not because that deadline has been exceeded that a visa must be automatically issued. There must always be a review, even if that visa application was lodged 10 or 12 months ago in Morocco or Turkey, for example. That is a very interesting statement, which also serves our agenda. After all, we want there to be a check on who we allow on our territory. We have tabled a legislative proposal on this, but the Council of State considered that the absence of a decision by the DVZ should not mean carte blanche for the administration and stressed the need to respond within a reasonable period of time. So one must still have a stick behind the door somewhere. We didn't get out. I forgot about that, too. It was a priority bill and I did not ask for its vote. Maybe we'll do that soon. I don't know. The absence of a decision therefore does not lead to a positive decision, according to the Council of State, but does not mean that a decision may be delayed indefinitely. For the sake of clarity, we absolutely do not want the DVZ to leave files for years. People are entitled to a decent answer, a yes or a no at a reasonable time. Period. That's quite obvious. That has always been my policy, and that will always be the line I maintain, opposition or majority, peu imports. Mr Secretary of State, how does the Foreign Office deal with the implementation of the Diallo judgment in practice? Do they fit? Corona means there's almost no longer any delays. It may not have really happened yet, but then my question is very specific whether there is an instruction from a legal service or from the Director-General for the services of Access and Accommodation on how to apply Diallo? Is my bill still necessary? Will you come up with a bill to make that legal? How do you feel about that? I'd like an explanation. This is an interesting issue, where I was very pleased with the judgment of the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u43	Mr Francken, glad to hear that you are satisfied with the Court's ruling, because it is indeed an important matter. It's true, with the DVZ things are a bit smoother. That's the COVID-19 effect. I hope we will be able to talk about the Mahdi effect later, but that remains to be seen. You have already outlined the context, but I am going to do it again. The Diallo judgment of the European Court of Justice states that the Belgian Foreign Law is contrary to the objectives of the Citizenship Directive because it makes it possible for a residence card to be issued to a person who does not fulfil the condition if the time limit is exceeded. Something really needs to be done about that. The Court ruled in the context of family reunification with an EU citizen. For the sake of clarity, the judgment has no influence on family reunification with a Belgian or a third-country national. For applications based on Article 40a, family reunification with a citizen of the European Union, and pending a legislative amendment, the DVD will grant the right of residence if no negative decision has been taken within the period of 6 or 9 months laid down in Article 42. An exception to this is made where there are elements of public policy which justify not granting the right of residence. I have no intention of setting aside the case-law of the Court. I will therefore discuss within the government, as you have suggested, the way in which we will follow up on this judgment before I have a draft in Parliament, but it will. We will, of course, take into account the concerns of the Council of State, in particular that decisions should not be delayed indefinitely. It is the ambition of this government and of myself to ensure swift and correct procedures. That will be no different in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u44	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I must say that I do understand the opinion of the Council of State. On the other hand, I think there are doubts about the interpretation, as it seems that the opinion is moving in a different direction from what the European Court has decided. In the long run, it's very difficult to see what's left of it. I would just like to say that the Council of State's opinions always come from the same room. I have 20 to 30 legislative proposals on the table. That Chamber of the Council of State says, among other things, that this 120 percent in the area of family reunification is not okay, although the Constitutional Court has already validated it. You will often be familiar with the judgments of the Council of State. Bonne chance. You announce a bill that you will discuss in the government. I look forward to that. In the meantime, it doesn't really occur, but you don't apply it either. You say you only apply it in cases of public order. Suppose it is a nine-and-a-half month period, the deadline has been exceeded and there is no public order, then you give a visa, but if there is public order, then you will study the issuing of the visa. That is actually not in line with the judgment of the Council of State. The judgment states that a check must always be carried out. When discussing your draft law, we will certainly go into that further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u45	First of all, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to congratulate you on your appointment as Secretary of State. I wish you every success. I would also like to raise the issue of the fact that some Belgian embassies are not currently able to receive new visa applications, to consult previously submitted questions or to issue approved visa applications. These problems have been occurring for four weeks now. They would be due to a technical problem which would mean that the embassies would not have access to the visa database. This problem, of course, causes a lot of concern to many people. People who have been given a visa can't pick this up. Of course, for a few who have made a marriage application, the time pressure is increasing. The problem would arise not only for visa applications but also for consular assistance applications. I have a number of questions about this, Mr Secretary of State. Are you aware of the problems with the visa database? When do you expect a solution? The problems have been going on for a while now anyway. What happens if the deadline for the visa applications affected expires because of the ICT problems that have been going on for four weeks now? Are we working on a backup system? Four weeks is a long time, especially when there is no alternative. I have heard that some embassies are looking at alternatives, but there should be a back-up system so that this does not happen again in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u46	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u47	I also refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u48	Thank you for your congratulations, Mrs Verhaert. As Secretary of State, I hope not to disappoint you either. I hope I will not do that now either, when you answer the first question you have addressed to me. Yes, I am aware of the technical problems our posts encounter abroad with the VisaNet application and its impact on the timely delivery of visas to non-Belgen. The visa database to which you refer falls within the competence of the FPS Foreign Affairs Office. The Aliens Department was immediately informed of the IT problem and is constantly informed about the evolution of the situation. The FPS State Department is working on a solution. On Wednesday 22 October a first post was reconnected, namely Yaoundé. On Thursday 23 October there were four, namely Casablanca, Dakar, London and Kuwait. This number then increased systematically. On October 26, I was informed that the IT problem was solved and that 90% of the embassies and consulates are back online. Since 28 October, the latest problems with the VisaNet application have been solved in all diplomatic posts. The break therefore lasted from 8 to 28 October. In urgent cases, communication is always possible between the posts and the Aliens Office by mail, for the exchange of files and decisions. The Foreign Affairs Department will therefore now carry out the decisions that have been blocked in recent weeks. The decisions taken during the period of the break will therefore not be reviewed. If certain deadlines had been met by the ICT Panne, this would obviously be taken into account. The time that posts abroad will take to implement the decisions taken by the Foreign Affairs Service during the break does not depend on the Foreign Affairs Service, but on the posts themselves. Members of the Foreign Affairs Office are aware of the sometimes tight deadlines for the start of studies in Belgium and take this into account in the order in which the dossiers are dealt with. The visa database, as well as the management of staff at the Belgian embassies and consulates, falls within the competence of the Foreign Affairs Office. So you can ask my colleague Wilmès if you would like further details.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u49	Thank you for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. I will certainly also inform Minister Wilmès, especially about the back-up system. For a lot of people, it really became crucial. A lot of people have really been waiting in suspense. In the end, an alternative was offered to them, but it is important to ensure that it does not happen again in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u50	Mr. Secretary of State, you referred several times to the Foreign Office. I think that's a little weird. I went back to that website just before this committee meeting and there is a reference to the Foreign Affairs Office for more information. I hope that no ping-pong game will be played here between the Foreign Office and the Foreign Office, because these people really need help. You did not answer my next question. Will extra manpower be deployed, after all, over a period of more than three weeks, in order to be able to help these people within a reasonable period of time? Perhaps you will answer that later. I hope you'll be able to pull one lever, Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u51	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, your answer reassures me to a great extent. I hope that you will do everything in your power to ensure the greatest possible continuity, with great regard for the human component, in order to avoid personal dramas as much as possible. I don't think you said anything about the age rules. I hope that you will ensure that, with any deadlines, age provisions will not be applied to the detriment of those who have applied for visas.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u52	Mr Secretary of State, my question concerns the measures that your department is planning now that we are in crisis again. Many measures were taken in March. For example, we asked the citizens not to move unnecessarily. We also took measures at that time to stop mass migration and there were additional measures on testing and such. On that occasion, the asylum office was also set up differently. Your predecessor has released illegals from closed centres, including people with facts on their hands, something that was a lot of discussion back then. Have you done the same? In the meantime, were the centres not yet fully filled? Has there not been any departure from the previous regime? I actually think this is the case, because we have had hearings here with the authorities at the time when the first peak was down. We were told on that occasion that capacity was being re-established. What exactly is going on in those centers? Can we continue the return today? Are you still prioritising this? Your predecessor assured us that she could organise return flights for as long as she could. Can you do that today and do it today? What are you doing to protect the personnel in the sector? After all, many additional measures were taken in March to provide additional protection for staff and residents. Did those measures re-introduce today to prevent outbreaks? During previous committee meetings we were given figures on this so that we did not have to wait weeks for the answer to a written question. Maybe that's how we can keep working on this committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u53	Mrs Van Camp, I will answer the question you have put as carefully as possible. I read out the question as an integral one: "What measures are you planning on your department with this corona peak? Same as in March? Why is that? Why not?" I will answer that question and I hope you will understand that I cannot immediately answer the right additional questions that you have put here. However, I will answer these questions if you submit them effectively. It is good that opposition is asking critical questions, but I cannot possibly answer questions that you are suddenly asking here. I hope you have some respect for that. In recent months, the departments have not been idle. In March, several activities had to be stopped in all urgency, but now we are better prepared to continue the work with respect for the measures in force to prevent the spread of COOVID-19. In recent months, Fedasil has developed very concrete tools to manage the reception network and inform all relevant actors. A vademecum was developed that describes the necessary changes in operation. In order to identify the number of infections in the reception centres and to link appropriate measures to them, a colour code system was developed. The number of infections in the various reception centres is therefore continuously monitored. When residents are infected, they must have gone to an isolation site. These places are present in all centres. In the case of a larger number of infections, more far-reaching measures may be taken to prevent spread. This could go to a lockdown from the shelter. More preventively, staff and residents are informed of the measures in force by means of communication campaigns. These tools shall be regularly updated on the basis of the instructions of the health authorities and the measures in force. The Department of Foreign Affairs has also taken the necessary actions. Staff are repeatedly reminded of the importance of respecting the measures. For the services where it is possible, telework is chosen. Where this is not possible, such as the registration of applications for international protection and the closed centres, the necessary adaptation work has been carried out to ensure that this can be done in accordance with the measures. The CGVS has restarted the organisation of hearing from 8 June. Here too, far-reaching measures are being taken. The hearing is spread over time. The reception of the applicants in the waiting room was organised in accordance with the measures. Mouth masks are mandatory everywhere, except during hearing. The hearing room has been refurbished, with a distance of more than two meters guaranteed and plexi walls installed between all parties. A protocol for the exchange of documents was also drawn up. Currently, the CGVS, in collaboration with Fedasil, is also working on pilot project to organise hearing via videoconferencing. The preventive measures taken make it possible to continue work here too. It is important to mention that the various services within my department perform essential tasks. It is therefore very important that these activities can be continued as far as possible. Together with my department, I follow the situation closely. We'll take the appropriate measures. I would therefore like to thank all my services once again for the work they have done over the past few months, when I was not yet a State Secretary, the work they have done in recent weeks, since I am Secretary of State, and the commitment they will show and give to doing excellent work today, tomorrow and the next few days in very difficult circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u54	Mr Secretary of State, I did in fact ask in general about the measures you are planning on your department in view of the enormous peak in the COVID-19 pandemic today. Your response to the receiving network was limited. Nevertheless, I would like to thank you, as you pointed out in connection with previous questions, that you have developed it to ensure safety there, as your predecessor has already done. Perhaps it is also worth considering taking measures to limit the influx. We cannot continue to increase capacity. If the government asks citizens to go into lockdown and not to move unnecessarily, then it must also consider the risks it is taking by receiving mass citizens here, as we are doing today. I will certainly submit a separate question as to what happened in the closed centres. I will certainly come back to it. Since your predecessor has released people from the closed centres, you can already guess my question, in particular whether you have already released people. Another question related to return will be whether new flights can be organised and what you will do to ensure the return of out-of-courts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u55	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 55010166C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u56	Mr Secretary of State, I had put a question to Mrs De Bleeker. We had a debate last night in plenary and last week in the Committee on Finance and the Budget on provisional appropriations. We were talking about the section on Asylum and Migration. You weren't there at the time. You were not present in plenary yesterday either. Last Monday, before 11 a.m., I put a question to Mrs De Bleeker for the committee meeting on Tuesday on the budgetary framework for Asylum and Migration, because I was told that the question had to be put in that committee, since she is dealing with the budget. Mr. Peter Buysrogge did that for the defense. Mrs De Bleeker answered all the questions except my question, which she referred to you. Now I get the message that you apparently don't have an answer, which is very strange. At night, during the debate in the European Parliament, I asked several group leaders and the government about the investment budgets. That is not clear at all. I had sent a letter to the Prime Minister asking if he could provide a budget table before his speech with the government statement. Eventually we got a table, a piece of paper with 39 lines, completely unreadable. I was therefore accused during the discussion that I apparently could not read the budget table and that we were not in a kindergarten. The Prime Minister turned out to be wrong, I was right, because Minister Vincent Van Peteghem had to admit that afterwards, which was quite a failure. I have been asking for a long time what investments will be made in Defence and in Asylum and Migration. I want to know how much goes to Zandvliet, to Jumet and to extra staff. Those are all logical and perfectly legitimate questions. I read that last Friday the Council of Ministers approved the budget notifications. I shall put an oral question to the House on this point. An hour ago, I was informed that my question will not be answered today, stating that you cannot answer because you are not ready. Mr Secretary of State, I will let you answer it myself, but I would like an answer. I really don't think that's serious. We will not work together in the coming years, because it will be a good thing, I can tell you that. Mr Secretary of State, I have the following specific questions. What is the budgetary framework in which Asylum and Migration will have to work in the coming years? I would like to have a detailed overview of the additional resources. How much goes to asylum, how much to entry and residence and how much to return? I'd like to get those sums split up. What exactly is the budget allocated to infrastructure? How much funding are there for the master plan closed centres for illegal immigrants in Zandvliet and in Jumet? Is there money available for extra places in Steenokkerzeel? Is there money for a new center in Bruges that we talked about last week? I'd like to get an exact timing. I understand that there have been meetings on this subject. In this context, I have also put a question to Mr Michel, Secretary of State for the Directorate of Buildings. That question was scheduled for Tuesday, but it was also taken off the agenda. Looks like everybody's scared of me. I don't know. I think it's really weird. I just want answers, that's all. Mr Secretary of State, is the money for the infrastructure allocated to the Regie Der Buildings, or is it on your budget? Could you give us some technical explanations? As far as the budget is concerned, I am a little nervous, which no one suspects of me, including the Prime Minister. I am quite capable of reading a budget. I have also spent years dealing with budgets. I was for years ships and mayor and in those positions competent for finance and budget in my municipality. I'm trying to do that job right. Our municipality is financially very healthy. In general, I think it is very important to know what the budgetary framework is. I did not receive any reply to the government statement on this matter. We're a month later now, and things aren't getting cleared up. I deeply regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u57	No, Mr Francken, I'm not afraid of you. I can only tell you that the question you are asking me does not give me any reason to be afraid of you and of your question. You also know what this government stands for. You also know that efforts will be made on Asylum and Migration and that additional resources will be provided. There's no reason to be afraid of the question or of you. I cannot vouch for what other colleagues do or how they deal with the questions you put to them. Please put the question to the competent persons, but I am not the person with whom you should come forward with your complaints. I can only tell you that you were apparently told an hour ago that I cannot answer and that I was told an hour and a half before that that there was a question. We received this question too late, and I do not make any exceptions, either for you or for anyone else. There are two options. I'm sure I want to work together. I've said that all the time and everywhere. I also believe that there should be respect for Parliament. I want to help you as best I can. There are two options. Either you give me a moment and you will receive a written answer to your question. Or you will have to ask the question next time in committee and I will answer the question in detail. Those are the two options, and I'm willing to go into both. One last element. There are things I don't appreciate. Maybe it wasn't meant to be, but I want to stress it again. It's about the way in which something is sometimes expressed. You say: 'Mr Mahdi, you were not present in plenary'. That may not be a bad thing, but it sometimes sounds like I didn't want to be here. For the record, I have not received any questions in plenary in the last few weeks. Your group and all the groups are free to ask me a question, avec grand plaisir. I'll be happy to deal with it, but it hasn't happened for a while. In fact, I'll tell you another anecdote. The very first plenary sitting I could have attended here in the Chamber, I went there and I was stopped by a messenger who told me: 'Mr Mahdi, there is a limited number of places and you cannot be here'. As Secretary of State, I was not allowed to be present in plenary. Even though I did not have any questions then, I felt that I should sit and listen out of respect for Parliament. Maybe it wasn't meant to be, but it does seem like it. I would like to stress that, as a Member of this House, I often sat here as the very last person, even though I did not have a single question. As Secretary of State, I feel it is my duty to be here. Then I hear: 'Mr Mahdi, you were not present'. There were reasons for that, and they are beyond my control.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u58	I find it strange what you are saying, because it is not about questions but about the budget debate. The budget debate was discussed two weeks ago in the Committee on Finance and the Budget. We have tabled several amendments on Asylum and Migration, both on the return budget and on the Fedasil budget. I hope you have heard that amendments have been tabled by the largest opposition party, the largest party in the country, about your budgets. I have sent a press release on this matter and I assume that someone from your services has picked it up after all. Do you know that the same debate will be held again in plenary two weeks later? That's the logic of things. That's always the way it is. Then it is not entirely inconceivable that you should be present to answer those questions yourself? Now Mrs. De Block has done that. Minister Dedonder was there for the Defence part of the budget. She didn't have to be there. It wasn't a question to Minister Dedonder. She was there as Minister of Defense because she thought there would probably be questions about the defence budget. If amendments are tabled about your competence, it is logical that you should be there two weeks later, even if you were not present in committee because you did not know that amendments had been tabled. Our amendments were tabled in good time, so they must have been distributed in the government. There's no other way. My questions are referred to you by Secretary of State De Bleeker, but that would not be the case with the budget. Strange. Two weeks later, in plenary, these amendments are retabled in time, the government is aware of those amendments, that debate is coming again and you are not there. Allow me to find that strange. It is not about a question that we would have tabled for Question Time and that you would not be there, it is about a budget debate. As you know, or perhaps do not know, everything can be discussed in budgetary debates. In any case, it is interesting to be around when there is a budget debate, because Parliament can always push you forward. But if you also know that two weeks before amendments have been tabled in your areas and the debate was half the time about your competence, then you can suspect that in two weeks' time it will be another of that in plenary, that N-VA will retable its amendments and so you will see better that you are there to answer? Mrs. De Block has done that for you now, we have received answers, but it's just a tip. I just want to say that I find this procedure strange. That doesn't just have to do with you. One submits questions and they are not really answered, which is strange. And then they're taken off the agenda. I decide. I understand that you have received this question, which was forwarded to your cabinet by Secretary of State De Bleeker, but which is very recent. Well, that's just the way it is. I would therefore like to respond to your proposal that it be answered in writing as soon as possible. I assume that this should be possible in the course of next week, so that I shall be able to do so and I assume that other colleagues are interested in your budget as well as having a good view of the additional budget that is foreseen at the time when we will discuss your policy paper. I am also interested in the timing of the master plan for the closed centres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u59	I will reply in writing as agreed. That's no problem at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u60	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me for this apartment, but it's already 4:00 p.m. I am well aware of the interest of colleagues in participating in the debate. We have had the opportunity to hear Mr Franken at length. That is why, Mr President, I ask you to ensure that the time allowed for questions and replies is respected. I have no doubt about Mr Franken's or all of us' interest in the issues under discussion, otherwise we would not be asking questions, but would we not be able to ensure that the time allotted for both questions and replies was respected?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u61	We'll try. I'm trying to keep an eye on the timing, but I won't start mosquitoing in a few seconds.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u62	Mr President, these are not seconds but minutes! Thank you!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u63	Mr Secretary of State, a Syrian man has lived in our country for years who, according to De Morgen's information, was the leader of a terrorist-sorting Syrian militia.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u64	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I was rather impressed by Bruno Struys' article in De Morgen last weekend. You too, I presume. It's about a file of an alleged militia leader in the Syrian civilian conflict. He would have come here through a family reunification after his wife got refugee status. That's intriguing. The man denies that, of course. For asylum seekers, an additional security screening was introduced in the previous legislature in response to the 2015 asylum crisis. Will you also set such a comprehensive security screening for family masters? How will you define this target group? Will you carry out an investigation to see if any other members of the family have slipped through the loopholes of the network, as recently happened in Germany? I understand from the media that you have requested a thorough investigation of this file from the administration. I read that his friend had another procedure going on. I assume that this has also been shut down or at least thoroughly investigated? Could you give us a more detailed explanation? What intrigues me most is that if the woman migrates here and gets refugee status and then comes a family reunion with a man who has everything on his mind, is that perhaps a back door? How are we gonna fix that? How can we do that? Maybe there's still some of those cases? I read in Mr Struys' article that this man himself would also have refugee status. Is that right? Did the man himself apply for asylum after he got here through family reunification?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u65	Mr President, Mr Segers, Mr Francken, you will understand that it is always necessary to be very careful when communicating elements relating to individual dossiers, especially when no decision has been taken. Therefore, I will not make the details of these files public, in the interest of the ongoing investigations. I suspect that all colleagues, and certainly former Secretary of State, understand that. What I can tell you is that the person concerned was indeed granted an A card in 2016 on the basis of family reunification, which has since been renewed several times. He himself does not have refugee status in Belgium. As far as the ongoing investigations into other services are concerned, you will have heard Mr Van Quickenborne's replies at the committee meeting on Wednesday 28 October. He is responsible for these other services. Any investigative duties in a criminal record, such as the questioning of witnesses, do not belong to the DVZ, but to the competent prosecutors. Whether someone is a threat to the country's security is assessed by the security and intelligence services. I personally believe that it is essential that someone be tried for his actions. If it turns out that this man or acquaintance of him has indeed been guilty of war crimes, they must be prosecuted and punished for this. As far as the right of residence is concerned, I can tell you in general that if it appears that the personal conduct of a third-country national is a real, current and sufficiently serious threat to a fundamental interest of society, his right of residence on that basis will be terminated by the Foreign Affairs Office. This shall take into account the seriousness or nature of the breach of public policy or national security committed or the danger posed by the person concerned and the duration of the stay in Belgium. That is the Belgian law and it will be respected. So I've asked the Foreign Office to look at the file. If an application for international protection is made, the CGVS will, as always, investigate any grounds that may justify an exclusion from refugee status in application of Article 1F of the UN Refugee Convention. Even if someone has acquired refugee status in the past and such elements come to light, the Commissioner-General may re-examine a file and possibly withdraw refugee status. The CGVS may itself initiate an investigation if there are indications of reasons for withdrawal. Our services do not keep statistics on the political orientations of Syrians who have requested or obtained a stay in Belgium. These aspects are also not questioned in the context of family reunification. Mr Segers, as far as your last question is concerned, I can tell you that any grounds for exclusion, as I said, are always thoroughly examined by the CGVS. This applies to all files, including files from persons from Syria, and also to persons who came to Belgium with a humanitarian visa and subsequently applied for asylum.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u66	Mr Secretary of State, I understand that you cannot simply communicate elements of an individual file. Having said that, I am particularly curious about what happened, for example, to the people who came across with humanitarian visas under the Kucam system. We know that a person would have already been involved in a serious crime and that he would also be linked to the Assad regime. The problem can therefore arise anywhere: in the case of family reunification, as Mr Francken says, but also in the case of humanitarian visas and elsewhere. It is therefore clear that it is for all services, both for the Foreign Affairs Service and for the CGVS and so on. I am therefore counting on you to continue working on a good sharing of information with the public prosecutor and the security services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u67	Mr Secretary of State, I fully understand what you are saying on this individual matter. I assume you'll do whatever it takes. Humanitarian visas have been suspended. No one comes in through that road, but they still come in through family reunification. I think the woman applied for status here first. After all, I thought he had no status. Bruno made a mistake there. He's not a recognized refugee. That's what I thought. That makes me even more suspicious. Maybe that story is true? It's more in the direction of true. Because why would he do that? Because then he'll be interrogated by the CGVS. If he doesn't, he won't be getting all those tough questions about what he did in Syria and where he was. It is therefore in his favor not to apply for refugee status. I think - and this has already happened in Germany - that there might well be such cases. It is about women who come here first and apply for asylum and whose husband comes later through family reunification, because then the man can avoid those difficult questions. We need to look at this very carefully. I was Secretary of State at the time. It's the first I've heard of that. When I read the article, the first thing I thought was that there were still cases like this. Tens of thousands of Syrians have been treated by the CGVS. I won't say it was bandwork, but they checked if what they said was correct, then followed an origin check and an identity check and handed over refugee status. What if a lot of family reunifications happened after that? We need to think about this very carefully, regardless of this question. I'm really worried about that. We need to look at this in depth, but perhaps we can do so in the policy statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u68	Mr Secretary of State, my question is not about your statement, but about the statement made by your colleague, Mr Van Quickenborne, who used very strong language. This is now almost immediately projected on the party pages on the social media. We do, by the way. Your colleague said: "For extremists, we have a very clear message: we prosecute you, we condemn you, and we expel you from the country." That is all very well, but experience teaches me that none of that is so obvious. Maybe I should put the questions in writing, because I want figures. How many extremists have been deported since 2019? To which countries? Based on what kind of extremism? I'd like to get details. What are the plans to expel extremists from the country? What about Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights? Will you get around that? I don't suppose so. Since 2019, how many extremists have been released from the closed centres for illegal immigrants? Why was I a little pissed off by that pronunciation? It's okay to make that statement. That is absolutely not my point. I also asked Mr Van Quickenborne the question last week. He replied by saying that I had to know what I wanted and asked me if he might not be allowed to make such statements. I have replicated that he can say so, but strong words must also be followed by powerful deeds. The read mission agreement with Morocco was apparently unilaterally denounced by Morocco in January or February of this year. Maggie De Block didn't do anything. I'm very troubled about that. We have worked so hard with the Swedish team to get that done. She also had to release the black widow, because she did not get them to Morocco, along with a number of other highly radicalized extremists, whose court had withdrawn nationality and we are staying, on the basis of Articles 21 and 22 of the so-called deportation law-Francken. Guys, what did I need to hear? However, that is a very good law. You'll have a lot of fun with that. It's a good thing we have it. In any case, you will not be able to send such persons back. I take it you've gotten a lot out of it? All this can be said on the stage and we must give a strong signal against Salafism. We certainly have to do that. We must certainly support the President of the Republic. But we must make sure that we try to do what we say we do. But I have my doubts about the actions, to be honest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u69	You did indeed ask questions to which I could reply in writing. But, Mr Francken, because I am of good will, I will answer them now. In 2019 and in 2020, until September 2020, 26 persons at risk of national security were removed to the following countries: Afghanistan, Algeria, Bosnia, France, Italy, Lithuania, Morocco, the Netherlands, Poland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Sweden, Tunisia and Turkey. The country of destination shall not necessarily be the country of nationality of the persons concerned. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as a result of the corona crisis and the closure of many borders, it is much more difficult to organise a removal. I'm sure you're aware of that yourself. If the corona crisis is behind us and those thresholds are removed, we will take that up again. The Department of Foreign Affairs seeks to take action against persons who pose a threat to national security, with due respect for national and international rules. Under no circumstances will I instruct my services to circumvent Article 3 of the ECHR or any other national or international rule. The removal policy will always be in line with international law or it will not be. By the way, our country has been expelling foreigners in accordance with Article 3 of the ECHR for years. I do not know why a bypass is necessary if it could be done in the past, today and tomorrow too. You also asked how many extremists have been released from closed centres since 2019. I noticed that some of the N-VA's questions focus mainly on 2019 and I decided to look at it more extensively and get the figures since 2014, including the undocumented people who were released in autumn 2018 to make way for transmigrants. The answer you would have given should you have been sitting here is that we do not know if there were extremists among those released people. Personally, I think it's very punishment that we don't know that. We don't know that for the years 2014 to today. I will work on it so that in the future we know which people have been in prison, then transferred to a closed center and finally have been effectively released. It was not allowed, it is not allowed and it will not be allowed for people who have been in prison to leave a closed center because of their extremist ideas. This was already problematic in 2019 but unfortunately it has been the same in recent years. That's gotta stop.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u70	I don't quite understand how you can know how many you've removed. You removed 26 for threat to national security, but you don't know who you released? That's impossible, isn't it? I thought the Black Widow was released. He was convicted of extremism. Those numbers have the DVZ. How can you know how many extremists you've removed if you don't know who was an extremist on release? I don't understand. I'm sorry, I don't believe that. Something must be wrong. I don't want to accuse anyone of evil will, but this can't be! If someone is held, they know that he is extremist and dangerous. That's what special units are for, including in Vottem, where these men are. Surely that's a sign that we know they're extremists, because we're putting them in a special department in Vottem. We're gonna put them out of there. I'm asking how many you got rid of. You say 26. I ask how many you had to leave out after 6, 8 or 9 months, and then you say, "I don't know." I'm sorry, this is absolutely impossible, this is impossible. You must know how many you had to release. The Black Widow, that's one I already know about. There are a few others. They've got the tag. That's the first thing. Secondly, many illegals or people without residence from prison, most of them do not even enter our centres. That's straight from the prison on the plane. If we don't get them on the plane, we'll release them. They don't even come into the centers very often. That answer will not be very clear either. I would urge you to look into that again, because it seems to me to be a very strange story that you would not know. You know who you got rid of with that tag. Very briefly. You say you've removed 26 at risk of national security. I am going to look into the reasons for this. You said that they were being transported to Afghanistan and Algeria. It is very interesting to know who they are and what they have been condemned for. A terrorist convicted, getting away to Afghanistan or Algeria, getting a convicted radical Muslim away to Algeria, I don't think that's possible. You did not name Morocco, so there is no one to Morocco. We already know that. Most of them, with Moroccan nationality, but all right, Algeria is. I know what is being done in Algeria with Muslim extremists, and I do not know if that is entirely in accordance with Article 3. So I wonder who they are. I will look into this further in the coming works.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u71	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in the past we have already had a purple-green constellation. Today, that is again the case. I have not forgotten that collective regularisations of illegal immigrants were carried out under the purple-green government at the time. Among other things, this was repeated in 2009, with the support of your party, CD&V. In view of the fact that the present government has once again had such a constellation, as your party has in the past supported and approved the collective settlements, in the light of your statements last week and given the content of the coalition agreement which I find absolutely unconvincing in this respect, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you guarantee that under your flag, you often speak about the Mahdi effect, which will not take place collective regularisations of illegal immigrants? Do you think, like our group, that the collective regularisation of illegal immigrants is not a good solution under any circumstances or under any circumstances? Our group has even tabled a resolution to strengthen that position and to call for no more collective regularisation. Do you also support our resolution on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u72	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, I do not understand the concerns. I have read the coalition agreement a few times and I have not found the word 'collective regularisation'. The reason is, of course, that we have included in the coalition agreement what we are going to do and have not written what we are not going to do. After all, the coalition agreement would have been very long. I have always found it strange that some people particularly stress the things they do not want, whether they are in the coalition agreement or not. These are fascinating debates, but that does not really help us. Any Member of Parliament and any political group is free to put forward a proposal which is considered useful. In order to address the issue in substance, my policy will not make regularisations impossible. This procedure certainly serves its purpose in specific situations. Mrs Van Camp, I am glad that you are asking me this question so that I can be very clear. Collective regulation will not be achieved. If you are concerned, your concern has been eliminated. My policy doesn't include any of them. You're talking about a Mahdi effect. However, the Mahdi effect is very clear in this respect: there will be no collective regularisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u73	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, those were the reassuring words I wanted to hear from you. I am glad that we can be clear about this and that you also thought it was a mistake for your party to work with it under the previous purple-green government, that you have learned from it and will not repeat it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u74	Mr Secretary of State, I also refer to the discussion we had here last week. When I asked the question, there were already 15 drownings at sea off the Libyan coast. In the meantime, unfortunately, drownings have been added, all in an attempt to sail to Europe by boat. It's about really tragic stories. It is clear to me from those stories that the current asylum model is responsible for this. As long as they know that there is a chance of success and asylum in Europe, they will continue to try to make the crossing. At the committee meeting last week, you were absolutely not a fan of the Australian model and therefore not of the proposal put forward by Mrs Darya Safai on the issue. However, it can be seen that the number of boat refugees to Australia has fallen very sharply since the introduction of the model and there are far fewer and almost no drownings at sea there, which is exactly the basis for our proposal for a resolution. So I would like to ask you today for more clarification. Why do you not support the model, as you advocate a human policy and the current model here is responsible for the drowning death of a lot of people, while, with the Australian model for example, you can stop the number of drownings at sea? If you are not in favour of our proposal to consider whether the Australian model can also be introduced here, but you do want to go for a human policy, what exactly are your alternatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u75	Mrs Van Camp, you ask me why I am not a fan of the Australian model. The answer is pretty clear. That is because I am a big fan of the European model that we want to work out over the next few years. Last week, moreover, I stressed the need to strengthen cooperation in the European Union. This will also have to be done through the European Asylum and Migration Pact, on which we will have to work hard in the coming years. The Pact will, of course, also cover the strengthening of external borders, better reception, protection in the regions of origin, the fight against trafficking in human beings and, in particular, the fight against smugglers. An integrated approach and good cooperation between Member States will lead to better controlled migration. All this will be done in accordance with international law, which is one of the main lines of my policy. Mrs Van Camp, that is one of the reasons why I am not in favour of the Australian model, which is not in accordance with international and European law. I will abide by international and European law. However, it is also good to think about concepts. I don't have a problem with that. Last week, I gave you the reasons why I do not believe in the Australian model, apart from the fact that it is also incorrect in international and European law. That is also, at first, because it is unrealistic. Europe is not an island, should that still be a question. Australia only has one access route. Europe has three, west through Spain, central via Italy and east through Greece. Moreover, the distances to be bridged are not comparable. Through these access routes, the European Union is only a handful of kilometres away. That cannot be said about Australia. Moreover, no third country has so far been interested in receiving our refugees. Such a model is also priceless for the EU. An exact cost is difficult to calculate, but it is certain that the costs of offshore reception are enormous. Amnesty International speaks of a cost of 370,000 euros per person per year for Australia. That's 370,000 euros per person per year. I repeat the amount in case there are still people who think this is affordable. Human Rights Watch speaks of 240,000 euros per person per year. I quote this in case you have any questions about Amnesty International's figures. For a remote country with few asylum seekers, that is just about to succeed. In the case of Belgium, I would much rather spend that money on other things - much more on care, much more on education, much more on poverty reduction, etc. Finally, and perhaps the most important point, the Australian model, in addition to priceless and unrealistic, is simply inhumane. I'd like to hear you talk about that Australian model, where people would supposedly end up in some sort of Club Med with access to everything. The reality is different, you will probably know that. Reality on the other side of the world mainly showed a different side of the story. There are countless testimonies and reports. They're clear about that. Several organizations determine the appalling conditions in camps on Manus and Nauru. Firstly, there are the many testimonies about physical and verbal aggression, including sexual abuse. A second point is the hopelessness that applies to most asylum seekers, whether they are recognised as refugees or not. It is also unclear to them what will happen to them. This means that many suffer from major mental health problems. Certainly the many children who are in prison suffer from this. There are reports from Amnesty International that speak of countless self-mutilation, hunger strikes and suicide attempts. I understand the question of choosing a human approach. I think this is a question shared by all Members of this House. We must effectively adopt a human approach, but it must be affordable and realistic and we must also find countries that want to participate in it. I am convinced that we will find enough European countries, and will in fact be able to convince all European countries, to cooperate in a European story, which will have to ensure strict, controlled external borders and solidarity for all European countries. If we do that, we will have a human and solidarity policy and a policy that is also better than Australia's.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u76	Mr Secretary of State, we differ there. First of all, I note that you have not read our resolution on this matter, which you have been handed over by our colleague. If you had read it, you would have seen that we advocate a human approach, why we argue for it and what aspects of the Australian model we would like to see implemented here. I hope you will do this. We are very different in substance and will continue to be so. You believe in the European story. I have told you before that anyone who forgets the past is doomed to repeat it. Many efforts have already been made in the past to better manage migration on a European scale. A lot of promises have been made and they have been stranded. I hope with you that this time it will be different. However, I am afraid that the time will be right and I hope that you will wish to change your policy. You say that the Australian model is not feasible here because we do not have reception for refugees or a third country that would like to receive refugees. I think that something that should just be advocated, including by Europe, is going to increase the reception of refugees in their own region. However, my conviction, which I have already conveyed to you, is that it is also mainly about the better triangulation of real refugees. That is my point and that is why we are in favour of the Australian model when it comes to mass migration. It's not just about refugees. Last year's figures show that 63% of asylum seekers who have arrived have not been granted protection status and are therefore not refugees. I agree with you when you say that we can certainly look into this and that refugees are better received in their own region. That is also our belief, but above all we need to work on a system where mass migration stops and the large proportion of asylum seekers, who actually do not have a right of residence, does not belong here in the first place and we also get them back much better. We will follow up on the figures, but I fear that time will be right and that your European dream will soon be smashed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u77	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the sad news this week in the area of migration is the condemnation by the European Court of Human Rights of Belgium's position. It established that, in the context of the expulsion of a Sudanese national in 2017, Belgium not only failed to comply with its obligations under Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, but also failed to fulfil its duties in the remedies available to that person concerned by the decision. When I speak of sad news, I do not qualify the decision of the European Court. Of course, I consider it a pity that we needed this decision from the European Court in order to arrive at such a finding. We had already stressed this on many occasions by criticisms expressed at the time against the position taken by your predecessor with regard to Sudanese nationals. Today, it's confirmed. The Belgian authorities have not taken sufficient account of compliance with article 3 of the Convention. Mr Secretary of State, what is your position with regard to this judgment? What conclusions do you draw? What concrete measures are being taken to ensure compliance with article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights? What measures do you intend to take to ensure the effectiveness of remedies, in accordance with Article 13 of the European Convention on Human Rights? This issue is all the more topical as we received the Bossuyt report just a few weeks ago. This report also highlights this issue of the implementation of removals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u78	Mr Secretary of State, the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) has condemned Belgium for expelling a Sudanese in 2017. That man was identified and deported to Sudan thanks to a Sudanese identification mission organised by one of your predecessors, Theo Francken. The then government followed a policy based on contempt for the rule of law, attacks by judicial decisions and against people who want human rights to be respected, ranging from journalists, NGOs and lawyers to citizens of solidarity. It was illegal to extradite the Sudanese in question. The Dutch court of first instance in Brussels had clearly prohibited this. It was therefore wrong of the government to do so. This condemnation therefore confirms once again how the previous policy ignored human rights. The new coalition agreement places a strong emphasis on human rights, but you also said several times in the media that you will continue with the current policy. We need real guarantees from the government that it will pursue another policy that respects human rights and avoids such condemnations by the ECHR. I have the following questions for you, Mr Secretary of State. What will the consequences of this judgment be for the Belgian State? What lessons do you draw from the ECHR's assessment of your policy? What steps will you take to ensure that such identification missions, such as those with Sudan, no longer take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u79	Mr Secretary of State, this question concerns the case of the removal of a Sudanese. For the sake of clarity, what I did at that time, the identification missions, all my previous governments have done as well. Many European governments then carried out removals to Sudan, so I was absolutely not alone in that. By the way, the government was always fully aware of the approach. Notwithstanding that information, one Chamber of the Court did not declare itself to be in agreement and condemned Belgium, inter alia, for not being in general with Article 3 of the ECHR and with the article on remedies. I absolutely disagree with that statement. There is no indication of effective torture or ill treatment, either in Belgium or in Sudan upon arrival. However, for purely procedural reasons, such a ruling was made. I think that is a very dangerous precedent. In the past, for example, Belgium was convicted once in the MSN case, when it was repatriated to Greece. At that time, the Court was able to judge effectively that the person concerned was being treated in an inhumane manner, since the person concerned had not immediately received asylum shelter in Greece, which could be categorized as inhumane treatment. In the case we are discussing, there is no indication that this man would have been treated badly in Sudan after his arrival, nor here. However, it is true that the man of the police has been ordered to leave the territory and has been arrested several times. He was found in a refuge where he wanted to climb into a truck in Leuven. He was here a long time and was well known to the police. He had been here for months, but he just wanted to go to the United Kingdom, he didn't want to stay in Belgium at all. But suddenly, during his stay in a closed centre, he applied for asylum to withdraw that asylum application a few days later. He had not appealed against his removal to the Council for Aliens' Disputes. He served his term, on which we effectively removed him, as we always do. Mr Secretary of State, I believe that you have no option but to appeal to the Grand Chamber about this case, just as Spain has done before in the Ceuta and Melilla case, where border protection is also difficult, with the fences around the African enclaves, and like some others, including myself with the issue of the visa of the Syrian family, a matter that we have won. Mr. Secretary of State, are you going to appeal or are you going to dismiss your administration? It's one or the other. The administration has acted very correctly here, in all facets. So my question is: are you going to appeal? At least I hope so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have read the recent judgment opposing Mr A. to Belgium, after which the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) condemns Belgium for a violation of Articles 3 and 13 of the ECHR. These include the prohibition of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment and the right to an effective remedy. Article 3 of the ECHR is an absolute right, i.e. it can never be derogated from and Belgium can be held liable for a violation of Article 3 of the ECHR if it does not sufficiently investigate the risk of violation in the country of origin before returning persons to their country of origin, which is called the principle of non-refoulement. It is for this reason that Belgium was convicted in this case. For example, in this particular case there was insufficient access to a lawyer and an interpreter, so that the person concerned could not adequately express his fear of persecution. As has already been communicated, we analyse and examine closely, together with the administration, the points on which Belgium was convicted and how a response to the Court's observations can be provided. We decide, within the proposed three-month period of appeal, whether or not to ask for a referral to the Grand Chamber. The decision to bring an action against a judgment of the European Court of Justice is therefore not frivolous. This requires an analysis and consideration of the procedures at the time and at the present time. I also note that the former Secretary of State, present here in the Chamber, has already indicated that the method used at that time could be improved. I could tell from an article in De Standaard. Several elements of the Court were also mentioned by the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons in its investigation report on the non-refoulement principle of return to Sudan, drawn up in the framework of the Sudanese identification mission. In response to this report, measures have already been taken to improve the procedure. The analysis we make following the judgment in question will also take into account the recommendations of the Bossuyt Committee. I would also like to stress once again the commitment of this government to pursue a human rights-based asylum and migration policy, of which the European Convention on Human Rights is an important pillar. The European Court's convictions must therefore be avoided at all costs. This does not at all mean that the return is made impossible, but it means that we must be careful. Mrs Daems and Mr Boukili, as regards your specific questions on the organisation of identification missions, I would first of all like to stress that the organisation of these missions is a technical and a common practice for the identification of illegally staying aliens on our territory. This is not only a common practice in Belgium, but also in other European Member States. Furthermore, Frontex strongly encourages and facilitates practice. I understand that the PVDA colleagues have a different view of this, but such missions are allowed in themselves. I am thinking, for example, of the organisation of an identification mission, coordinated with several Member States and in which the invited delegation stops in the different participating countries. It is a question of showing that this practice is, in itself, nothing special. The objective is simply to achieve an identification which can be obtained by the diplomatic post of the country of origin or by electronic or written communication with the competent authorities of the country of origin. So we're going to continue to organise those identification missions. Of course, the full process of identification and removal will always take place with respect for all applicable national and international rules. We will also respect Article 3 of the ECHR in these identification missions. In the past, many people have been sent back with respect for Article 3 of the ECHR. I said this earlier and stressed it in response to another question. It was possible in the past to do so with respect for Article 3 of the ECHR. It must and will also be possible in the future to do so with respect for international and European law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u81	Secretary of State, I heard your answer and also read your response on Twitter. "This is the kind of things I don't want to see anymore under my policy," you said. It's a way of doing that we don't want either. We've said enough. The Socialist Party therefore relies on you to embody a rupture by respecting, as you have stated, the decisions of justice and placing above all respect for the rights of human beings. This change will be welcome, in the light of the recent past where some advocated the return at all costs, invoking the figures. As you said, return must not be denied, but it must be done with respect for human beings. The question today is not whether or not to agree with the court's decision. The court said the right and, in her view, your predecessor and the Belgian State were wrong. Truth has its rights. The law also has its truth. End of game! It is now time to consider what has been decided by the court. The judgment reveals serious shortcomings in the head of the Belgian authorities. These shortcomings have resulted in the return of a person to his country of origin, in violation of international law, with all the dramatic consequences for him. Mr Secretary of State, you can count on my group to help you pursue a policy on migration rights based on human rights and based on respect for everyone, but which will not be naive and angelic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u82	It is very good to hear you formally declare that human rights will be respected. I support that, too. I hope that you will do so in all policy areas of asylum and migration. You say that only after a thorough analysis of the judgment will you decide whether or not to appeal against that judgment. This isn't gonna be for another three months. I very much hope you will not appeal. Few complaints submitted to the European Court of Human Rights are actually dealt with by the Court. So if a ruling is made, then the facts are very serious. Few states also appeal against these rulings. If you were in favour of appealing or appealing, you would almost say that you think human rights should be violated in our return policy. That is, of course, contrary to the principles set out in your coalition agreement. In any case, together with all those who respect human rights, we will continue to ensure that the government keeps its word. Furthermore, we do not want identification missions leading to violations of the European Convention on Human Rights. We have to be very careful about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u83	Mr Secretary of State, it is already clear that you will not appeal. The PS forbids you. I listened very carefully to what our colleague said: Mr Rigot forbids you from appealing. You quit, the P.S.'s got it. I heard that very well. I hear very strange things here like that one should not appeal, that this cannot be done. One can all do that. One can perfectly ask the Grand Chamber to speak out. Basically, that's what you have to do when you're protecting your administration. She'll be attacked a lot, be sure, so I hope you'll draw this line. It is very important that this happens. If you do not do this, you say that what the administration did then was scandalous and wrong. It is unacceptable that you should say this. It happened correctly. It happened in several European countries. It was done in accordance with the entire Belgian government team at that time. It did happen correctly, though. Has there been any changes? Yeah, that's what happened. It remains a fundamental issue. Take someone who arrives here from Afghanistan, does not identify himself but does say he wants to apply for asylum because he is threatened in his country, and does not cooperate at all, does not say who he is or from where he is coming, but does say that he cannot be returned because he is threatened and then we violate Article 3, what will you do with it? Now that is supposedly an implicit asylum application. If there's no cooperation, they'll all stay here. You need to look at that very carefully. The most remarkable thing is the intervention of the PS colleague, who actually says:no way, there is no further trial or reference to the Grand Chamber. He thinks this is a final decision, we won here, we're not gonna get any of it, this is a final verdict. I find that particularly scratchy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u84	Mr President, I would like to react personally. I think Mr. Franken has the reading he wants. I didn't say you shouldn't go on appeal. I said that there is a legal decision that has been made, that we like it or that we don't like it. I can hear Mr. Franken doesn't like her. She's never gonna like it, since she's pointing out her wrong. Point on the line. I am not here to tell the Secretary of State what to do. I'm no one to tell him. He'll make the decisions he has to make. However, I welcome the decision that has been taken. It's a fact. I'm just confirming my group's position since the start. Thank you for not telling me what I didn't say. I invite you to read the report again in the next few days. Good end of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-30-55-commissie-ic296x.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, I must inform you that the Secretary of State has agenda problems and must leave us. If you wish, you can convert your remaining questions into written questions, with a shorter answer period, of course. Officially, I may also postpone the questions until another meeting due to lack of time.
