ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u1	Mr. President, Madam Minister, according to the press, the number of attacks on hospital staff has increased by 24% in ten years. Indeed, the number of complaints lodged with the police as a result of physical violence in hospital continues to increase from year to year. If 380 cases were recorded in 2000, we increased to 554 cases in 2008 to a total of 687 cases in 2018, making almost two complaints per day of physical assault. However, these figures represent only the visible part of the iceberg because many caregivers do not file complaints. It is, of course, always the same problem in this type of aggression. According to hospital staff, the increase in aggression is directly related to staff overwork. Some hospitals have decided to address this problem by setting up training courses to learn how to defuse violence or by hiring additional guards in emergency services, for example. Minister, have you been able to read these figures? What is your analysis of these challenging figures and the increase in attacks in the hospital sector? Do you intend to take steps to reduce the number of attacks on hospital staff? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u2	Mr President, Mr Prévot, the question you are asking in relation to the problem of attacks on nurses was indeed relayed by the press at the beginning of November. It focuses on the aggressive actions of patients towards staff, particularly in emergency services. This problem is not new and the fact that the number of complaints is increasing does not necessarily go hand in hand with an increase in acts of aggression. Indeed, in various studies carried out in Belgium and abroad in the past, it appeared that hospital staff tended not to always complain in case of aggression, a behaviour which may tend to change. That's probably what you're alluding to when you talk about the "visible part of the iceberg." I have already urged the staff to file a complaint every time he is the victim of an assault. With regard to measures taken to reduce the number of attacks, first of all, it should be stressed that, as early as 2005, financial resources had been made available to hospitals for the financing of security officers. This initiative, jointly supported by the SPF Santé publique and the SPF Intérieur, was born at the time in the context of the Intergenerational Solidarity Pact, which devoted a specific chapter to the creation of jobs for young people in the non-market sector. Since then, funding for these jobs has been made structural in terms of hospital budgets. At present, about EUR 18 million is spent on this. In addition, since 2011, the provision of a functional supplement to the heads of nursing teams has been subject to a minimum of eight hours of continuous training per year. These trainings are validated by the Public Health FPS and must address concrete aspects of team management. Among the requests for recognition of trainings, some 10 of them explicitly address the issue of the management of violence or the control of aggression. The aim is, therefore, to provide nurses with the means to better manage aggressive situations through behaviour aimed at alleviating emerging conflicts. Finally, in your question, you establish a link between the phenomenon of assaults and an overload of nurses' work. Various theses indicate a relationship between the lack of time available to staff to listen to patients and the rate of assault. It is important that health-care workers be able to take care of them primarily. However, this is a subject that goes far beyond the scope of your question, especially since it is part of the work on the White Blouse Fund. On the other hand, the strengthening of staff in hospital services will not in itself solve the issue in its entirety because, as you certainly know, various cases of aggression in the emergency services have little to do with the availability of staff. Consider, in particular, patients who come under the influence of various substances: alcohol or narcotics. The causes of the problem identified are therefore not unique. This justifies the different initiatives taken simultaneously to try to resolve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I repeat that 687 complaints were filed. And again, it was only the nursing staff that went until the complaint was filed. While health-care workers render a service indispensable to the population, it is simply unacceptable that these people must suffer the lightnings of patients and/or their entourage. I hear that since 2005, resources have been granted, which have since become structural, for security officers. However, in view of the evolution of the figures, it must be noted that these means are not sufficient. In any case, what seemed to be a good idea in 2005 does not stop the problem. You also make the connection, as I did in my question, between overloading work and increasing complaints of assault. I think there is a real direct correlation, as caregivers are working more and more at a tense flow and no longer have the opportunity to listen to the patients they would like. This can lead to conflict, to aggression. I understand that this is a broader debate that should be resolved in the context of the debate on the White Blouse Fund. But I think this once again indicates how essential it is to refinance health care as a result of competition. It is realized that when there is under-funding, other problems are created. Today, I wanted to demonstrate this by the prism of increasing attacks in the hospital sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Hoof's 5501468C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u5	Madam Secretary, for residential A- and T-beds in psychiatric hospitals, an occupation of at least 80% is expected. If this occupation is lower, the staff resources will be reduced by a percentage. In drawing up the Royal Decree on the intensive treatment units of psychiatric patients, no mention was made of that limit of 80%. As a result, these IB beds are registered at 100 % while in practice they can never be occupied at 100 %. After all, patients go on leave, they can be written out administratively and that's more. As a result, a service with, for example, two times eight beds would not be entitled to 30 full-time equivalents while those staff members are employed. Madam Minister, is it true that the financing arrangements used the 80% rule when it was not included in the Royal Decree? If that's the case, can you correct that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u6	Mrs Depoorter, a general principle in hospital funding states that the opening of beds must respect strict budgetary neutrality. This is in accordance with Article 91a of the Royal Decree of 25 April 2002. This means that when opening so-called IB beds, beds within an intensive treatment unit, the budget allocated to them through part B2 of the budget of financial resources (BFM) is the budget component that funds nurses and caregivers, consisting of the budget of the T-beds closed for that purpose, as well as the amount of the pilot project relating to highly behaviourally impaired and aggressive patients that previously financed the functioning of the departments of the IB patients concerned. Next, Article 48 of the same decision states that a minimum of 15 full-time equivalents per unit of eight beds must be present to nurses and nurses, without mentioning the rate of occupancy. During the budget checks, however, the staff present is examined globally by hospital rather than by individual department, because the number of people leaving on leave or on weekends is of course not so high on intensive treatment units. That's why they're looking at it for the whole hospital. The withdrawal of funding will only take place if the minimum standard for all services is not met. Practice shows that this is rarely or never the case. There is therefore no need for any correction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u7	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Nevertheless, it appears that certain institutions have problems in this area. You answer that there is no need for a correction. We agree, however, that patients who need intensive treatment must be adequately staffed. It can be considered whether it can be guaranteed that just those departments within the hospital are adequately funded and that they can take care of their patients as expected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u8	Madam Secretary, this question concerns the Federal Note on Drugs that was drawn up. An integrated and integrated drug policy was introduced in 2010. This note was also proposed in the Chamber. In 2011, drugs were applied for in Figures III. The aim was to outline public spending on Belgian drugs policy. The 2011 note used a lot of statistics from 2004 to 2008. We do not really see the 1997 recommendations of the Working Party on Drugs set up at the time in Parliament. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Firstly, what is the current state of drugs policy? Have there been any follow-up to the recommendations of the 1997 Working Group on Drugs? Secondly, has a new federal drug note been drawn up since 2001 on the basis of statistics available today, statistics adapted to today's social developments? Thirdly, the Drugs Note in Figures III mainly refers to statistics from 2004 to 2008. We are now 2020. Do you have any recent figures? Fourthly, has the roadmap been developed to draw up drug-related public expenditure on drug use? Is that available and can we look into it? Fifthly, can we get an overview of the funds devoted to drug policy today, divided into the Repression, Treatment, Harm Reduction and Prevention pillars?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u9	Mrs Depoorter, this will be a detailed answer, because you are asking for many figures. Although under the Rules of Procedure this is a matter for a written question, I will now give you the figures because you are new, but I would advise you to ask for figures in writing in future. In order to achieve a global and integrated drug policy, cooperation is carried out both at the federal level and at the level of the Communities and the Regions. The established General Cell Drugs Policy and the Inter-Ministerial Conference Drugs in 2008 now form the Thematic Meeting Drugs of the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Health. We have further developed this cooperation. Since its inception, several inter-Kabinette working groups have looked at various themes. An update of the works as well as the realisations of the General Cell Drugs Policy can be monitored through the annual reports, which are published on the website www.drugpolicy.be. A report was recently published for the period 2014 to 2018 with an overview of the achievements of the previous legislature and recommendations for the next government, whenever there may be. A scientific study was launched in September 2019, with funding from the Belgian Science Policy, in which Belgian drug policy will be evaluated as a whole. The research is carried out by the Catholic University of Leuven, in collaboration with Ghent University and the Université catholique de Louvain, and is carried out in collaboration with the Dutch Trimbos Institute. The final result is expected by the end of 2021. The scope of this evaluation study includes a process evaluation of the entire Belgian drug policy, an impact assessment of some concrete projects and the formulation of policy recommendations. To give an example of the achievements on a global and integrated drug policy since 1997, I would like to refer to the Royal Decree of 6 September 2017 on the control of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, which allows customs, police and justice to intervene more effectively against new psychoactive substances. Other examples for the Public Health domain are the intense debates on a national alcohol plan, the installation of a Belgian Psychotropics Expert Platform for the rational use of psychopharmaceuticals and the protocol agreement on uniform European registrations for drug and alcohol treatment applications, the Treatment Demand Indicator. The permanent coordination of the General Cell Drugs Policy has already gone through two exercises on the monitoring of public expenditure on alcohol, tobacco, drugs and psychoactive drugs for the years 2012 to 2015. This monitoring can also be consulted on the website www.drugpolicy.be. A new exercise is already underway. In 2012, a total budget of EUR 1.050 billion was devoted to drug policy. Drugs policy means both the policy on illicit drugs, tobacco and alcohol as well as psychoactive drugs. In 2015, this was EUR 1.3 billion, an increase of more than 30% over a three-year period. Few of my expenditure items have seen such an increase. This expenditure is average estimates which mainly relate to the costs of hospitalisations and also expenditure within the Justice Department. Compared to other pillars of drug policy, an important part goes to the Treatment pillar, i.e. 59 percent. If we compare the data from the different pillars with previous years, it appears that the Security pillar is gaining importance and the Treatment pillar is decreasing in importance compared to 2013. In the 2013 monitoring, the Security Pillar still represented around 29%. In 2014 and 2015, this had already increased to more than 39% of expenditure on drug policy. Unfortunately, the budget for the Prevention Pillar remains very stable and underrepresented at 1.24% of expenditure. Also, the budget for the Harm Reduction or Harm Reduction pillar represents only 0.38%. In this context, it is important to remember that the functioning of the judicial system requires much more resources than the resources needed to carry out prevention. Like other years, the federal government's budget remains the largest with more than 97% of expenditure. It is expenditure for the hospital and security sectors that leads to these figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u10	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. When it comes to figures, I will indeed ask a written question in future. I'm glad you gave me these figures. A 30% increase in drug policy resources is a great deal, but the problem is also quite large. We note that a whole generation of drugs are fairly often exposed to legal and illegal drugs. I believe that Parliament should take responsibility for this. The budget for prevention remains stable, which for damage reduction is very low. To guide our drug users to a reduction of damage will lead to major differences in the field of public health. You also mentioned therapies. I think that we should go a little bit wider in that respect than just the rehab treatments that target certain opiates. The first-line care guidance of patients who depend on some substance should be reviewed and re-evaluated, in my view. I will consult the figures on www.drugsmeer.be. I suspect that we will continue to debate this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u11	Mr President, Madam Minister, last November we could read in the press that lots of disinfectants had been urgently recalled by the Lille-based company Anios, following the presence of a bacterium in the products. The bacteria detected by the manufacturer can cause infections in hospitalized patients and pose a real threat to people who are weakened, immunocompromised or suffering from chronic lung disease. These disinfectants are widely used to clean surfaces and care equipment. They were still employed on the weekend of November 11, 2019 in our hospitals while the production plant had been shut down at the beginning of that week. The French health authorities had been alerted to the danger. The Anios laboratories claimed that the Belgian authorities had been informed. Minister, can you tell me whether this was the case and, if so, why was the procedure for the recall of disinfectants not initiated as soon as the company was brought to an end? In addition, what measures have been taken by your services to prohibit the use of these products in the hospital sector, and the solutions put in place to replace these disinfectants with alternatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u12	Mr President, I shall be brief on the matter. In view of the deadlines, I hope that some important actions have been taken. So I will not go back to the context. Minister, could you tell us if you had been contacted by the parent house, as my colleague said? If so, what measures have been taken to ensure the protection of care professionals and patients? Who is responsible for this type of emergency communication? What action plan is expected to be implemented in such cases? Are there specific controls for the use of this type of product, which is used to clean up surfaces and equipment in all care units in the country? I would also like to draw attention to the threats that can particularly affect people who are weakened or immunocompromised, premature and chronic lung disease living in our hospitals. What types of bacteria have been detected? What infections could these bacteria have caused in hospitalized patients? The last point in the text that I forwarded to you was a specific issue of topicality, so I will stop here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u13	Mr President, Madam Minister, the context has just been recalled, and I will come to my questions immediately. In this case, I was struck by the slow reaction of Belgium. If, at this stage, I cannot say that the AFMPS has reacted slowly, it must be noted that a number of questions arise as to the chronology of events: detection, cessation of production, communication between France and Belgium, communication by the Belgian authorities to the institutions concerned, the type of communication, arrival on the ground and, above all, the decision to suspend the use of this product. Minister, is there any mistake or slow communication from the production firm Anios? Was the transmission of information from France slow? Why, in spite of these elements, did it take another 48 hours for a non-emergency e-mail to be sent to the various hospitals concerned? On the ground, medical hygienists and hospital pharmacists, as well as a series of other officials, said they were stunned. Many actors in the field who also use this product, outside hospitals, have not been warned, which also raises questions. And it took a few more days – I personally checked during the weekend – for the AFMPS to publish, finally, on its website, the request for quarantine of the products in question. After the warning of the French health authority, it took 96 hours for the information to appear on the website of the French health authority. I must admit that the management of this file at all levels is a matter of the utmost concern to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on Friday 8 November 2019, the AFMPS, which is responsible for monitoring the quality and safety of medical devices, was informed via the Public Health FPS of the publication, by the National Agency for the Safety of Medicines and Health Products (ANSM) on its website, of the recall of Surfa'safe and Opaster Anios products manufactured in the French factory Anios. As soon as the AFMPS became aware of this information, information was collected simultaneously from the ANSM and the manufacturer. When AFMPS received confirmation that Belgium was affected by this product recall, a letter was sent via e-mail on Saturday 9 November 2019 to the networks of the contact points of the Belgian hospitals in order to ask them to quarantine the Surfa'safe and Opaster Anios disinfectants. Since disinfectants are used in a large number of Belgian hospitals but also in non-hospital health care services, on 11 November 2019 the AFMPS also published a communication on its website and disseminated information via social networks. The Public Health FPS has also published this information on its website in order to ensure a wider dissemination of the message. But, as I said, the contact points of materialovigilance were already informed on 9 November 2019. Surfa'safe disinfectants may contain the opportunistic environmental micro-organism Burkholderia cepacia. This bacterium represents a low risk for healthy people but can cause infections in people with a weak immune system. Surfa'safe is a Class 2 B disinfectant. It is available as a biocide that has been pre-registered with the Public Health FPS and as a medical device that has been CE marked by a notified body. Opaster Anios disinfectants may contain pseudomonas oryzihabitans, but the manufacturer has informed AFMPS that this product is not sold on the Belgian market. To date, AFMPS is not aware of any contamination related to the use of Surfa'safe and Opaster Anios disinfectants. The AFMPS is in contact with the distributors in order to ensure that the recall is carried out, but also with the French authority (ANSM) and the manufacturer for the follow-up of the actions undertaken within the French factory, including the restart of the production of new products. The AFMPS has not yet been informed of a problem regarding a lack of alternatives for these products.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answers. This type of incident represents an opportunity to take stock of alert procedures at Belgian and European level. In the press, it has been reported that the production chain of the company Anios was stopped at the end of October, while the procedure for announcing the withdrawal of products in Belgium was only launched ten days later in Belgium. That raises the question. It is good that there was no contamination but the risk was present. It would be interesting to review this alert procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u16	I have nothing to add. My colleague summed up our opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answers. He was pleased that there had been no health impact. Nevertheless, I really encourage you to examine the weaknesses of the Belgian health alert procedure. With regard to this particular case, three observations are obvious. First, it took 48 hours between the French alert and the Belgian alert. That's a lot. On 7 November, all French institutions and all those who were to be informed received an e-mail. I've got a copy in front of me. All those who were to be notified in France were personally notified. In Belgium, this was on 9 November. Secondly, it took another three days for this to be online on the website. It's quite incomprehensible. The third observation concerns the "who": to whom is this health alert addressed? When I compare the French device with the Belgian device, on the side of the Belgian device, you send this to the big structures, but all the small structures have been forgotten, as well as those who work as self-employed – and not that doctors, it can affect dentists, physiotherapists, etc. On the French model, each actor, each provider received a personal e-mail. I think that's what makes it most efficient. Conversely, in Belgium, many players have not been informed. If they heard it from the press, they would consult the AFMPS internal site on which nothing was notified for three days. These are points of weakness. There was no contamination here: good. But in the event of severe toxicity of the product, all the weaknesses of the device applied could have led to much more serious problems. I invite you to review and reassess this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u18	Madam Minister, since 1 November, the age limit for the sale of tobacco products has been increased to 18 years, as has already been the case in all other European countries. We are talking about cigarettes and roll tobacco, but we are also talking about e-cigarettes. According to the press who published and examined this, it appears that the sellers clearly do not yet comply with the new age limit. A test carried out by Het Nieuwsblad showed that twelve of the fourteen shops, from petrol stations over cafés to supermarkets, were guilty of it. Minors could still buy tobacco there without any problems. Have there been sufficient consultations with the sector, both with the shopkeepers and with the self-employed, on the implementation of the measure? What accompanying measures have you taken to ensure that the transition is smooth and that they comply with the new age limit? Were all the stores written by the FPS Public Health about the new measure in good time? How and when did that happen? What was the content of the communication? How many times have you repeated the message afterwards, especially in the light of those lesser controls? How will you ensure that shops comply with the new directive on tobacco sales?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u19	Ms Van Camp, the services of the FPS Public Health organised an information session for shopkeepers at the end of September, on Friday 27 September 2019. Comeos and the organizations of the daily dealers were invited, but only Comeos showed up for that informative session. The aim of this session was to inform them of the latest developments in tobacco control legislation. Of course, the issues of tobacco sales to minors and raising the age limit from 16 to 18 were raised. No specific guidance measures were requested by the shopkeepers. The increase in the age limit does not alter the practical implementation of age control. The shopkeepers can continue to check the age in the same way. In addition to the informative session mentioned, the website of the FPS Public Health was modified. A news item was also published. This information was also widely disseminated in the press on the entry into force of this measure on 1 November. During the regular checks, retailers were also informed by the auditors of the Public Health Office. This was done orally, but also in writing in the context of the other measures. Finally, during the last two months of 2019, November and December, the Tobacco and Alcohol Control Service of the FPS conducted a major control campaign on the sale of tobacco to minors. In 2019 no fines were issued for selling tobacco to sixteen- and seventeen-year-olds, but warnings were issued. As from 1 January 2020, the Supervisory Authority will take action with the full arsenal of possibilities, i.e. both fines and, in the event of a recurrence, closure and possible sanction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u20	Thank you for this clear answer. The sector was clearly well-written. We fully support the fact that after the 2019 warnings, there will also be real follow-up checks, with warnings and a penalty system. Our party has introduced the introduction of a new age clause for tobacco sales. This must be respected in order to better protect the health of our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u21	Madam Minister, in mid-November there was an interesting article in De Standaard about a migraine form that I did not know myself, namely medical overuse headache. Some migraine patients take too many painkillers and therefore get additional headaches. That's how they end up in a vicious circle. At the same time, a new class of migraine drugs was also mentioned, which is coming. To what extent are general practitioners sensitized to the problem of medical overuse headache? Are there plans for an information campaign on this, particularly for migraine patients? The article in De Standaard on 12 November referred to the fact that there are very few clinical studies to find the best therapy for overuse of medicines. The Move4Migraine Foundation indicates that there is too little information on the excessive use of medicines or unadapted treatment. Would you like to ask for studies in the future? Do you see a role there for Sciensano? I would like to come back to the new preventive medicine against migraines, which is on the way. It is already indicated that it will cost EUR 500 per month. The Belgian Headache Society calls for a very limited group of migraine patients to be reimbursed. It is about patients who are regularly out of battle and who fail other preventive treatments. What is your view on that question from the Belgian Headache Society?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u22	Mrs Creemers, a great deal has already happened. Through the Register of the Belgian Centre for Pharmacotherapeutic Information (BCFI), general practitioners are informed in detail about the risk of increased headache symptoms and induction of medication-dependent headaches in long-term and too frequent use of painkillers in patients with frequent migraine or stress headaches. In the BCFI transparency sheet on migraine, there is also a chapter devoted to medication-dependent headaches. As early as February 2006, the BCFI published an article on headaches due to excessive use of analgesics and anti-migraine agents in Folia Pharmacotherapeutics. Diagnostic criteria, treatment, advice and measures to prevent such induced headaches were also described. A short reference to the 2006 Folia is also present in the next Folia of 2013 on prophylactic medication in the event of stress headaches. In addition, the summary of the product characteristics and the package leaflet of the painkillers are available on the website of the FAGG, which includes the contraindications, the precautions to be taken and the possible side effects. The FAGG has not planned a separate information campaign for citizens and patients on the subject. There have already been several campaigns on the good use of medicines, such as the campaign "A medicine is not a candy." In September 2018, the company Novartis, a well-known name in the committee, submitted a file to the CTG to apply for reimbursement for the pharmaceutical speciality Aimovig at a dose of 70 milligrams. The same happened in March 2019 for Aimovig at a dose of 140 milligrams. After evaluation of those applications by the CTG, both for the 70 milligrams dose and for the 140 milligrams dose, the possibility of concluding an agreement between RIZIV and Novartis to temporarily register Aimovig on the list of pharmacovigilance medicinal products that can be reimbursed was examined. At the end of the negotiations, the working party responsible for the negotiations formulated a negative opinion on the reimbursement of Aimovig. The proposed cost of health insurance per patient was very high compared to the expected profit and available preventive therapies. According to the Working Group, there are also a number of important uncertainties related to the medicinal product, including the potential budgetary impact as well as the added value of the medicinal product within the target population proposed by the company. At the end of October 2019, the company Teva Pharma Belgium submitted an application to the CTG for the pharmaceutical specialty AJOVY. Like Aimovig, this speciality belongs to the class of CGRP inhibitors, a new class of medicines for the treatment of migraine for a particular target group. The file's still pending. I cannot give any further details on this. This would jeopardise the smooth functioning of the reimbursement procedure. This applies to all cases in which the reimbursement procedure has not yet been completed. We are therefore awaiting the opinion of the working party.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u23	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I would like to come back to the last information campaign. I understand that the GPs have all the information and can give it to you. I also understand that caution is recommended in the package leaflet. A cure is indeed not a candy. However, we hear that people still have migraines due to a problem that has not been addressed in the previous information campaigns. I would urge the pharmacists to give that information. If I understand correctly, it's not always a prescription medicine. We must not lose sight of this. The platform Move4Migraine is the first action point to demand continued attention for correct information for the patient and his environment. As a second point of action, it also aims to increase the knowledge on migraine through further training of the people in primary care. It is not quite clear to me whether you also see a role for Sciensano. It is not clear to me either, but this may have to do with the confidentiality of the contracts, or it is only possible to provide for the reimbursement of the limited group of migraine patients who are really out of line because they cannot work because of their headaches. Can you give me an answer to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u24	I don't think that's Sciensano's job. There are guidelines, there is information, there are general practitioners in LOKs who explain, among other things, dependency or tranquilizers, addiction to painkillers and excessive medication use. The general practitioners who wish to do so are financed for this purpose. The pharmacists are also aware of this. Each has its part to play. Apparently, they quickly enter a circle of dependence on medication. Some people take their medication in advance when they suspect they will have migraines. That's understandable. They're afraid of that. Many people have to play their part, especially the patients themselves, who have to follow a schedule to slowly reduce their dose to avoid rebound migraines. That's very difficult. Mrs Merckx will know that too. I've been escorting people like that. That's a long-term process that goes with falling and getting up. Usually it's about prescription medication.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u25	Thank you. I have no further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u26	Mr President, Minister, since 1986 we have known in Belgium the system in which everyone is implicit organ donor, unless they are explicitly opposed. A few years ago, in 2018, a legislative amendment made it possible for explicit consent to be given. This is possible via the cities and municipalities and also via the GP or online via a self-registration. Following this change, many cities and municipalities want to actively participate in increasing the number of explicit permissions, increasing the chances of organ donation. Many cities and municipalities have already started to do so, but it is still awaiting implementation of that law from 2018, as the conditions and method of online registration still need to be determined. Madam Secretary, what about the implementation of that law? When can cities and municipalities start registering online, which is a much easier form than when candidate donors have to go to the town hall? How are the online registrations already recorded by cities and municipalities processed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u27	Mr President, Mr Matheï, the law of 21 March 2018 provides for an amendment of Article 10 (3) of the Law of 13 June 1986 on the removal and transplantation of organs and the deletion of § 3b of the same article. Until now, there was only one way to register a declaration of will, namely through the municipal administration. Following this legislative amendment, there are three ways in which citizens will be able to oppose or explicitly agree to the removal of organs after death, namely through the municipal administration, by means of a recognised general practitioner or by means of digital self-registration. It is important, however, that all statements of will are recorded in the same central database which can be consulted by the transplant centres and institutions for human body material immediately after death. A new electronic application, accessible to municipalities, general practitioners and citizens, therefore had to be developed. That has happened in the meantime. The amendment of the 1986 Law on the Removal and Transplanting of Organs also has an impact on the implementation of the Law of 19 December 2008 on the Acquisition and Use of Human Body Material for the purpose of medical application to humans or scientific research. Article 12 of the Law of 19 December 2008 expressly states that the removal of body material after death is subject to Articles 10, 12, 13 and 4a of the Law of 13 June 1986 on organ removal and transplantation. That 2008 law concerns the removal of tissues and cells after death for three different purposes: therapeutic purposes, namely transplantation, the development of knowledge inherent in the exercise of health care professions, namely scientific research, and the production of medicinal products for advanced therapies. The declarations of intent which the municipalities registered for citizens so far concern only the removal of organs for transplantation. The Royal Decree in implementation of Article 10 (3), which is being prepared, thus lays down provisions for the registration of declarations of will, of opposition to or consent to the removal after the death of human body material for the three aforementioned purposes and for the removal of organs for transplantation. The Royal Decree lays down the procedures for registration by the citizen himself by electronic means, but also by means of civil status officials or the general practitioner. The royal decree is in the final phase. The King still has to sign it, but I don't have a keg on it. The King has other business to attend to. However, it is certainly in the final phase. The new application will therefore be available to citizens, municipalities and general practitioners in the coming weeks, at least in the first quarter of 2020. The centralised database will also be available. The online registration tools offered by some municipalities are at a different level. These are usually communication tools between the citizen and the municipality in the form of an e-stop shop, allowing the citizen to ask for information or order the documents. In the future, when citizens register their own declaration of will online, the file will no longer have to be dealt with by the municipality. That will then happen directly. The e-stop shop will still be useful for those who want more explanation and who need help to register their statement, and want to make an appointment to do so. They will still be able to do so in the municipalities. For the statements that are registered today via e-shopping booths, the municipality still has to intervene to submit the declarations to the National Register. The current Orgadon database is still an extraction of information registered by the municipalities from the National Register. So we had to set up a whole new database.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u28	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the answer. I am pleased to hear that the new, comprehensive system will enter into force shortly. My supplementary question is as follows. Is there any insight into the timeframe in which the system can be implemented and rolled out?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u29	If the KB is there, it's ten days after publication.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u30	Then the online tool is also available? Is that all ready?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u31	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u33	Mrs Depoorter has asked to withdraw her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u34	In the middle of November it became known that in our country a boy of 18 years old may have died of the consequences of using an e-cigarette. We have already talked about this in our committee and in the plenary, but it may be useful to know just before we start the hearings whether there is any news about the investigations or the results. Have you discussed increased preventive measures, particularly for young people, with your regional colleagues responsible for health prevention?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u35	Mr President, although we had to take part in hearings earlier, I decided to keep my question to get some answers first. Madam Minister, the doctors at the Saint-Luc University Clinic consider it possible that the vaping caused a first victim in Belgium. Indeed, on November 6, it was reported that a 18-year-old man - apparently without health problems - had suddenly lost his life as a result of unexplained pneumonia. When I tabled my question at the beginning of December, we were talking about the possibility of a second victim in our country. Although medical analyses are still under way, the hypothesis of the use of CBD-based vapotous oil (cannabidiol), a chemical component of cannabis for legal sale on Belgian soil, is preferred. Several cases of deaths related to the use of vaping cannabis products have recently been updated in the United States. Moreover, several American and Dutch pneumonologists have recently expressed their support for a simple ban on electronic cigarettes because of a lack of decline in their effects. Minister, have you been aware of any similar cases in Belgium? In any case, I assume that your attention was taken by the two deaths reported by the press. How do you intend to act? In your opinion, should we - in the name of the precautionary principle - ban electronic cigarettes in our home, pending reliable studies demonstrating the harmfulness of the vapotuse? Have you ordered reports on this? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u36	For some time now we have been receiving reports from the United States in particular about health problems and even deaths that may be linked to the use of e-cigarettes. We have, of course, asked our services immediately to investigate this and to continue to monitor the situation. The investigation showed that, in the vast majority of cases in the US, there were products purchased on the black market which had themselves been made for the e-cigarette or mixed with other products. Often a quantity of THC was also added. In the European Union, these products are, of course, much more strictly regulated than in the United States. In other words, in the United States we can legally use products that are banned from us. Like you, I have been told that in our country, too, there was a suspicion of a link between the death of a young man and the use of the e-cigarette. Because of the privacy and sadness of the family, it is difficult for us to contact them ourselves. At the moment, a statement is still being sought in the hospital. So that theory hasn't been hardened yet. I nevertheless instructed my services to gather more information, while respecting the privacy of the deceased young man and his relatives. We do not currently have sufficient data to draw definitive conclusions. As long as the investigation is under way and the exact cause of death is not identified, it is difficult to communicate conclusions to colleagues in the federated entities. As a result, no coordination has been put in place at this time. The basic prevention message is therefore more applicable than ever. As indicated by the Board of Governors in its 2015 Notice, the use of electronic cigarettes is not recommended for health reasons. The danger is that people mix products they buy on the black market. That's also the danger with an ordinary cigarette. I remember from the old days that various ingredients were also rolled in. Cigarettes in themselves are already harmful, but also what is still rolled in. I'm not so old I don't remember. Because I didn't smoke, I didn't suffer much from that, but I saw a cigarette going around at a party to my surprise. I didn't think it was hygienic that everyone took a hit, but I was also a very naive person and didn't know it was a special cigarette. And he came to me, and I thanked him, saying that I didn't smoke, and then everyone started laughing. That was my first acquaintance at one of my first parties. I have no regrets for my certain naivety not to take any of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u37	Thank you for sharing your personal experience.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u38	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer and, of course, I have every respect for the privacy surrounding the deceased young man. I hear from former colleagues in education that the marketing really attracts minors to the e-cigarette. My ex-colleagues are working on prevention equipment themselves, because they feel obliged to give good information about it. Surely it is not possible for them to have to do so themselves and rely on self-seeking information? Even if it may be premature, since we will have a lot of information on the e-cigarette this afternoon and next week, I call for prevention campaigns. That's not federal matter, I realize, but we can do the same thing, right?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u39	Since we are in a state of confidence, Madam Minister, as far as I am concerned, apart from a trial being young, I have never smoked either, but that does not prevent me from being particularly concerned about this issue. Indeed, the many deaths and health problems in the United States are problematic. You did well to also recall that it is essentially the use of illegal and uncontrolled products, or the cocktail effect of artisanal mixtures, that cause problems. At European Union level, fortunately, products are subject to stricter rules. As far as the Belgian case(s) is concerned, we are also waiting for the investigation, respecting family mourning and privacy. But it would be interesting to correlate with the use of these electronic cigarettes. In the meantime, I can only relay what you said at the end of your intervention. Prevention must be in order. More and more young people are interested in e-cigarette. A powerful marketing is done around it, and particularly attractive tastes are offered to young people, at a time when, fortunately, advertisements on packages of real cigarettes are being removed. There is a lot of marketing that is of great interest to young people, including the different tastes of products that can be put in these electronic cigarettes. Thank you for your answer, pending the hearings this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u40	Mrs. Depraetere is not here. We will ask what is going on, otherwise her question is no. 5001590C without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u41	Mr President, I have already discussed this. This is a converted question which was tabled as a written question but which was not answered. I have therefore converted my question into an oral question in order to obtain the data. If you prefer, I would simply like to take the figures, because it is mainly a matter of figures, Madam Minister, unless you prefer me to read the question. It's possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u42	I can read the answers, Mrs. Van Camp. There's a lot of tables in there. I can also just give you the answer in writing. The reason why that question had not yet been answered is that RIZIV has no figures on many questions, such as the indications or the number of hours spent by nurses in home care. We do not have that information because the RIZIV should not register it. I'd be more than happy to provide you with the information I have and which is no less. It was a lot of work, because you start with children from 1 year old and you end with the age category from 80 to 84 years old. For that, a lot of data must be crossed at the RIZIV, but I will give you the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u43	Is that the answer to your question, Mrs Van Camp?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u44	Yeah, perfect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u45	We will also send the reply to the committee secretariat so that other Members can read it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u46	Madam Secretary, this is a follow-up question. You replied at the time that the data had not yet been mapped out. If those tables are available, I would be happy to receive them in writing so that you do not have to read them here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u47	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, I have a detailed answer to that question, with a reference to figures to be consulted on certain sites. You also asked for a whole split-up. I have the records that are kept at RIVIZ at my disposal here. You asked for a split-up over 18 years of age. In patients under 18 years of age, nomenclature codes are used that are not specific to bariatric surgery. It is difficult to get the figures out of that. You will find a number of things in these figures, for example, for which age group the bariatric surgery is most common, especially for the 40 to 49 age group and to a lesser extent but still important for the 30 to 39 age group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u48	The next item is Question No Mrs Van Camp's 55001618 question, but this has already been answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u49	In reply to this question, I had received the answer that the requested data had not yet been mapped out and that at that time the data were not yet available. If the data were mapped, they would be available and communicated. I would like to know whether this is the case now, so that I can confine myself to this and take the tables with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u50	We have received some data for the period 2011-2016. More recent could not yet be removed. This is indicated by region. I do have the figures of the number of graduating general practitioners until 2018. We have indeed had to wait for those figures. Regarding the quantitative evolution of the active general practitioners in the community, this comes from the PlanKad Doctors Plan 2004-2016. That publication took place in September 2019 and contains data up to 2016. A new one is planned for this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u51	Mr. President, Minister, since the early 2000s, patients and physicians have been aware of the problem of antibiotic resistance. In spite of this, according to the KCE barometer, Belgium is at the top of the international rankings with consumption of the same level as France and about two and a half times higher than that of the Netherlands. According to the study of the mutual Solidaris, which was widely echoed in the press recently, it appears that the increase in the price of antibiotics which was decided by the federal government in 2017 and which took effect on May 1st of the same year did not finally have the desired effect. Indeed, it did not lead to a reduction in the consumption of antibiotics while the increase in costs was, for its part, borne mainly by the patient. This study confirms what was already stated by Christian Mutuality in April 2019. According to a study conducted among its members, the number of users and the volume of antibiotics decreased by just 1% between May 1, 2017 and April 30, 2018, which does not result from the fact that patients pay for their drugs more expensive since the use of antibiotics has always varied from year to year, increasing as well as decreasing, by about 3%. It should also be noted that providers prescribe fewer antibiotics for a small portion of their patients, but the average number of daily doses per prescription increased significantly between 2009 and 2017, especially among specialist physicians, but also among dentists. In conclusion, rising prices did not ultimately lead to a change in patients' behaviour, but penalized them financially. Minister, can you let me know if a thorough analysis of this study has already been conducted by your office and administration? Is a moratorium on rising the price of antibiotics envisaged? What measures are recommended in terms of raising awareness of over-consumption for both patients and prescribers? Is consultation with the relevant ministers of the federated entities planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u52	Mr President, Mrs Rohonyi, a thorough analysis of the study which is currently under way. No moratorium is envisaged. This is not desirable. The price of antibiotics has not increased in recent years, but health insurance coverage has decreased. Indeed, some antibiotics have moved from category B of reimbursement to category C. In doing so, the patient's user ticket has been slightly increased for the antibiotics concerned. Furthermore, it should be noted that only antibiotics issued by open pharmacies are concerned. Antibiotics delivered to the hospital were not subject to the change in the reimbursement category. In addition, the majority of antibiotics are inexpensive. Even with the increase in the user ticket, the cost to the patient remains very low. Moreover, antibiotics in our country are cheaper than in other countries. It should be added that the pharmaceutical pact with the patient led to a decrease in the price of antibiotics. The measures advocated so far are numerous and are part of a national plan of action under development. Indeed, Belgium is in the process of developing a One Health Action Plan to combat antimicrobial resistance. Its development is coordinated by the SPF Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment, in close collaboration with Sciensano, AFMPS, AFSCA, INAMI, the Belgian Antibiotic Policy Coordination Commission (BAPCOC) and the Knowledge Centre for the Use of Antibiotics and Antibioresistance in Animals (AMCRA). In this context, the fight against over-consumption at all levels – human, animal and environmental – is a key issue that will be set out in various initiatives that will have to be taken over the next few years. We have already taken steps in this direction. A preliminary draft plan was presented on 22 November at a stakeholder dialogue, which consisted of a day of exchange and reflection on the national strategy to be deployed for the next five years to combat antimicrobial resistance and infections associated with hospital care. This day brought together representatives of private and public professional organisations as well as scientific associations of human and animal health and the environment around a one world one health approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u53	This preliminary draft brings together ten strategic objectives, seventy-eight operational objectives and two hundred and twenty-six actions – of which more than eighty relate to the human pillar. The aim was to reach the end of 2019, so that the project would be presented to the various political actors involved, of which I am a member. In conclusion, I confirm that this theme remains at the heart of my priorities and that I expect much from this action plan in the context of the fight against overconsumption of antibiotics in Belgium. In fact, the number of daily doses has decreased, but not enough. There is an objective, but things are going too slowly. In previous years, we were still experiencing an increase. We had seen this before, too, with BABCOC. For a year or two, there was a decrease, and then we went up again. Now we've worked more extensively and deeper.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive and usual response. It's a pleasure. I hear things have been put in place, and you really share the goal of reducing the use of antibiotics. This is very important to continue, because it is unacceptable that Belgium is still one of the largest antibiotic prescribers in the European Union, and to continue to count thousands of patients who died in Europe each year because they are affected by infections caused by multi-drug resistant bacteria. I therefore encourage you to continue these measures and to continue to work on them. We will see which minister will be called upon to make it a reality. I would like to ask you a question about the timing of this plan. You are announcing, on the one hand, an action plan already drafted and, on the other hand, a draft long-term plan, announced over five years, which was to be finalized by the end of 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u55	An action plan was completed in 2019. The new plan is for the years 2020 to 2025.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u56	But you said this project was to be finalized by the end of 2019. I'm not saying it's already too late, but I need clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u57	There was a meeting. They promised to write this project, but I haven't received it yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u58	All right. Still, I hear things are set up. That's very positive. I also hear that consumption would have decreased, perhaps not as much as we would have liked. I remain convinced that rising the price of antibiotics, even if it only concerned hospitals, is not necessarily the solution. In any case, it must be paired with other measures. I believe that other measures that have been taken so far, such as limiting the validity of orders to three months, which has been a fact since November 1, 2019, may be a more appropriate solution. We'll analyze the effects later. We will do the same for awareness-raising campaigns. I'm calling you. It would be useful to take advantage of the fact that electronic prescriptions have become mandatory since 1 January to conduct a reflection. Physicians who prescribe antibiotics will have to specify the medical indication for which they do so. I don't know if it's planned, if there's any thought about it. But in any case, this would make doctors more accountable for their prescribing practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u59	It cannot be stated on the prescription for which indication this medicine has been prescribed. This is the responsibility of the doctor. As for compliance with the prescription and dose, it is the responsibility of the pharmacist. We can't say that. This is a matter of medical secrecy. It is not feasible to place the indication on the prescription. For example, doxycycline may be prescribed for an infectious cold, but also for a sexually transmitted infection. We can't say that on the prescription.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u60	Raising awareness among physicians, pharmacists and patients really remains a solution to be explored further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u61	Minister, due to a stock shortage, several Belgian hospitals lacked paclitaxel, a medicine used in chemotherapy, as of 20 November 2019. According to the Flemish Association of Hospital Pharmacists, there is apparently no other treatment for these patients. The only solution was to obtain this medicine from abroad, which is six times more expensive than what we pay in Belgium (150 euros per 25 mg dose instead of 25 euros). In the meantime, a derogation has been requested by the pharmaceutical industry from the Advisory Commission so that products destined for other countries can be sent to Belgium. However, even in the event of a positive opinion from this committee, patients should have waited until mid-December to benefit from this medicine. Minister, given this emergency situation, what solutions have you provided to patients so that they can continue their treatment in case they cannot get this medication? In the case of stock failures, a task force composed of experts from AFMPS and INAMI and external experts meets to seek an appropriate solution and make recommendations. Why didn't this task force meet earlier to resolve this crisis? Has it met in the meantime and, if so, what action has it taken? In concrete terms, what are the solutions in the case of unavailability and lack of alternatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u62	Mr Rigot, the various companies concerned informed AFMPS about the unavailability of medicinal products containing the active substance paclitaxel. Since six companies market this medicine in five different formats, according to the task force, there were still enough alternatives for a few months. However, increased demand for cascading effect led to a stock shortage among other companies. The various companies claimed the following reasons: - problems with pharmaceutical raw materials; - unavailability following increased demand due to the unavailability of another company's medicine (cascade effect); - the consequence of Brexit since the site for control and marketing in the European Union in the United Kingdom was closed and the start of the new site caused delays; - capacity problems at the manufacturing site. Based on the analysis of the decision tree used to assess the criticality of availability, the AFMPS experts concluded that a derogation was the best possible solution. A derogation is a request from companies to the AFMPS Advisory Commission to temporarily import a number of consignments from a third country. A request for exemption was submitted by Hospira on 18 November 2019, while the article was published on 20 November in Le Soir. As a result, actions were taken prior to the publication of the article, but the journalist was not warned. On 22 November 2019, the Advisory Commission issued a favourable opinion. AFMPS consulted with the company to ensure that foreign packaging was available as quickly as possible. Since November 22, 2019, hospitals have had access to foreign packaging. There is no extra cost for the patient, since the package obtained by derogation benefits from the same reimbursement conditions. Each notification of unavailability is evaluated on the basis of a decision tree. It is only if no solution is found on the Belgian market (from generic to alternatives based on other active substances) and on the foreign market (derogation or importation according to Article 105 of the Royal Decree of 2006) that a task force is convened. As a derogation offers a solution in this case, we have taken the necessary steps and the work has not been continued by another task force.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u63	Madam Minister, thank you for these explanations. Like every time there is a shortage of drugs, there are causes for it. I can hear the causes that were present. But it is clear that, in the current situation and undoubtedly in the case of heavy therapies such as chemotherapy, we must make every effort to move even further. Since this generates stress in the patient, it also generates fears, and then it can also generate a cost for social security, which I am convinced would be better avoided, and you like me. Thank you for these answers. I hope that in the future we will be able to anticipate more and that companies will be able to anticipate these situations further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u64	Madam Secretary, the online chemists are trying to find their way to the Belgian patient. We believe that the patient has the right to order his medication online from his or her home pharmacist. However, we have a number of concerns about these platforms because of the lack of a physical connection. In the officiala the patient only has direct access to a product when it is not a medicine. There is a physical barrier between the medicines and the food supplements and care products. People are talking about products over-the-counter and behind the counter. There is no such distinction on the online platforms. In addition, in the official or pharmacy, up to three pharmaceutical-technical assistants can strengthen the team. Madam Minister, are checks being carried out at online pharmacy platforms on whether the so-called chatassists are accompanied by a pharmacist? Do they have a certificate of competence as a pharmaceutical-technical assistant? Are those online platforms required to comply with the same guarantees from one pharmacist for three pharmaceutical-technical assistants? Do you carry out checks, which ensures that the patient receives scientifically correct information? My second set of questions is about the physical barrier that exists in the officiala. One can perfectly place ten boxes of nasal spray and ten boxes of painkillers in the basket of the online platform. In a pharmacy, that would be another story, where you have to ask the pharmacist for ten boxes. Do you think it is an option to introduce a barrier online, where the chatassist must be present from a certain number of packages, so that there is also a certain control? Recently, a pharmaceutical group filed a complaint with the Constitutional Court about two laws in the context of online selling medication. How's that going?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u65	Mrs Depoorter, the pharmacy's web shop offering medicines for distance selling, is considered to be an extension of the physical pharmacy. This means that all legal provisions also apply to the management of that webshop. The Royal Decree of 21 January 2009 on training for pharmacists allows the pharmacist-titularis to delegate pharmaceutical activities to an assistant, provided that a pharmacist directly and efficiently supervises them. The FAGG is not aware of the existence of so-called chat platforms in the framework of the web shop of Belgian pharmacies. As provided for in Article 29 of the Royal Decree, there is an obligation for the pharmacist managing a pharmacy's web shop to disclose the pharmacy's contact details so that the supplier of medicines can always contact them. In addition, the orderr of medicinal products is also obliged to provide his or her contact details, so that the pharmacist can also contact him at any time to discuss an order and refuse its execution if necessary. As already indicated, all legal requirements for the physical pharmacy also apply to the pharmacy's webshop and the same applies to the implementation of basic pharmaceutical care, as set out in the Annex to the Royal Decree of 21 January 2009. When recruiting a pharmacist's assistant, the pharmacist must obtain the necessary certificates of competence, including a visa applied for by the pharmacist's assistant at the Public Health Office. A list of the visas issued is available on the website of the competent department. If deemed necessary, the FAGG will also consult that list. I would like to point out that the barrier also exists for the delivery of medicines when they are sold at a distance. As mentioned above, all obligations for the pharmacist in a physical pharmacy also apply to the online platform. The pharmacist-titularis still decides, after carrying out the basic pharmaceutical care and other checks, whether a medicinal product may be delivered. In addition to a document containing advice to be given in each package of medicinal products, the webshop should provide direct access to the package leaflet of the medicinal product. As a result of the multi-annual framework for the patient with the official pharmacists and the home pharmacists of 17 March 2017, proposals were drawn up to adapt, inter alia, the Article 29 of the Royal Decree of 21 January 2009 laying down the conditions for the distance marketing of medicines by pharmacists. The aim of these measures is to improve the means of proper pharmaceutical care. As regards the cases pending before the Constitutional Court on the transposition of the European Directive by the law of October 2018, Articles 55, 58 and 64 were annulled. The matter is still under discussion and I cannot make any further reference to it. At present, there is still an exchange of pleadings in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u66	Madam Minister, Belgian online shops must comply with all the legal provisions, but you know as well as I do that I am talking about chat platforms advertising on the Flemish television channels, addressing our Flemish patients and being located just across the border. They are a problem for our public health. They can perfectly order 10 boxes of Dafalgan and 15 Otrivane sprays. I am therefore concerned about our patients who have just access to these medicines and can continue to use them. As far as the people who are talking to these patients are concerned, we have done some research on this and when we look at what the so-called pharmaceutical expert tells patients, it turns out to be a 19-year-old person who has had a training in tourism. I believe that this is not the profile we are looking for to give our patients information about medicines. I know that as Minister of Health you cannot change that very much, but I would like to inform you that your Flemish colleague visited such a platform on the Entrepreneur's Day. I would therefore ask you to raise this during the interministerial consultation. As a doctor, you know that there is a bit of a public health game here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u67	You said it yourself: there is nothing I can do about it. I have no legal means to do anything about it. Perhaps I can tell you that, as far as television advertising is concerned, there is a way of doing something about it at regional level. If advertising is misleading or dangerous, then we can do something about it. You also refer to the visit of my Flemish colleague. You do have colleagues in the Flemish Parliament to talk to him about this. I was very unhappy about that, too. We've done everything we can to launch the house pharmacist. I personally physically cooperated in the relationship between pharmacists and their patients. Then going to such a platform seems to me to be a beginner's mistake, but a mistake that is not without consequences. He got put on the wrong track and said an organization asked him to do this. I am convinced, like you, that this will not be the Pharmacy League. All right, I'm still not responsible for where my colleagues visit. As far as the Inter-Ministerial Conference is concerned, we still have a small problem. Ministers are known in the Länder, but there is no new federal government yet. So, officially, we can't get together yet. At the level of administration we are already working on this within the FPS Public Health. I cannot risk a direct confrontation with or sensitization of Minister Beke, because we are not yet physically coming together. Normally we had four Inter-Ministerial Conferences a year, but now there is no planned one because there is no federal government. I can maintain bilateral contacts and that happens, but I am not the mother-in-law of the Flemish Minister for Health. I don't have the ambition to be; I'm someone else's mother-in-law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u68	I end up with my concerns about medication online. We must all look for an opportunity to point out to the patients the dangers that this entails.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u69	Price reductions are also allowed there. For example, if you order for a certain amount, you do not have to pay shipping costs. The Dutch then come here to deliver it. It can be handled inventively. Does this encourage overconsumption? There are certainly people who encourage this. Especially the commercials are bad. It is a foreign organisation that calls itself "your Belgian platform." Luckily, I don't watch much TV, but when I first saw it, it looked like I saw a ghost. It is not good at all that people do car medication and just store a large number of boxes of medicines.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u70	Looks like you're on the same wavelength. Mrs Depoorter, would you like to add anything else?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u71	Mr President, no.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u72	Madam Minister, in five years, almost three billion euros have been injected into the pharmaceutical sector in the form of subsidies and tax deductions. Your government's support for pharmaceutical companies has reached a record high since between 2008 and 2012, the sector has benefited from 995 million euros. Few European countries are also in solidarity with the pharmaceutical industry! Minister, how do you explain this increase in subsidies between 2014 and 2017 (554 million euros per year on average)? The money paid must be given priority in the search for new remedies. However, it appears that the amount devoted to research by the sector would be less than the amount of government support granted. Do you confirm this information? Are you questioning the effectiveness of your support to the sector? How can you say that the tax advantage granted to the sector generates many investments, innovations or jobs when the Plan Office says it cannot say so? Are you planning an evaluation of the amounts dedicated to the pharmaceutical sector in the near future? Moreover, in January 2019, the Belgian Pharmaceutical Association and the Christian Mutuality requested government support for master preparations in order to avoid the use of old medicines registered as new products at very high prices. What has been your support for masterful preparations since then? What budget could be saved by focusing on this support rather than support for innovation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u73	Mr Rigot, I have also read the press release on strengthening support for the pharmaceutical sector. Pharmaceutical companies can benefit from various tax measures for about 20 years. I am thinking in particular of the special tax system for scientific researchers and the special scheme for the income from patents registered in Belgium. I have also read the studies of the Bureau of Planning and the Observatoire de l'industrie pharmaceutique. These studies mention an increase in tax aid in recent years, but they also mention that this aid has a positive effect on certain elements. I'll give you a few examples. The pharmaceutical sector is the only sector with a long-term increase in productivity and employment. The participation of this sector in the added value created at the level of our economy has increased. Strengthening the export of medicines contributes to the positive trade balance. Productivity within the sector and the total number of hours worked are also on the rise. It is also important to talk about the advantages enjoyed by Belgian patients thanks to the presence of the sector in Belgium. I am thinking in particular of the clinical trials which are being conducted in our country and which allow our patients to access innovative medicines as soon as possible. I am also thinking of the collaboration between this sector and our academic sector that leads to innovation that will cure our patients or improve their quality of life. Moreover, the study warns us. Indeed, our competitive position is threatened by the fact that other countries are also taking measures to improve their ecosystem – I am thinking here in the Netherlands, but also in France – in order to attract them to economic activities in the pharmaceutical field. It is therefore necessary to ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of the support measures taken and to carry out the necessary analyses to that end. As far as master preparations are concerned, it is true that the latter could offer an alternative to the medicines manufactured by the industry. However, I would like to highlight the differences in scale. Magistral preparations can only be considered for personalized medicines. In addition, it should be noted that the pharmacist is paid for this type of preparation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u74	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. The pharmaceutical sector's economic bulletin is indeed excellent with job creation, exports, etc. In any case, for the Socialist Party, the priority remains access to health care for the patient, first and foremost, and on time. I'm thinking about access to all the treatments, all the medicines, at the best price. So, yes, I hear you highlight the good economic health of the pharmaceutical sector. However, in order to be more effective, we must not spend, but, above all, invest wisely, as a good father of the family. As you say, we must constantly ensure that we do not incur additional costs for our health care and social security. It is therefore essential to define for the future what one wants and to see if it is not possible to invest elsewhere or otherwise in order to achieve the same results. It is not because they are positive that they could not be achieved through less state investment in pharmaceutical companies. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u75	Questions No 55001716C by Mrs Mélissa Hanus and No 55001718C by Mr Marc Goblet become moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u76	Madam Secretary, you will have noticed that there is a new challenge, the Bright Eye Challenge, in which young people lighten their eye colour with a mixture of shaving foam and bleach. I submitted the question two months ago and in the meantime I have spoken to several cosmetics dealers. Apparently, the mixture is also simply offered as a cosmetic product. So people pay for something that's super dangerous. In Antwerp, by the way, there are already victims who have problems with their cornea, which has affected their eyesight. I realize that I always come here with young people's experiments, but that's obviously because I'm young myself and I'm in that world. Are you aware of the trend? We have already had the phenomenon of nitrous oxide before, which was initially absorbed rather lightly by the governments. Trends from America get very fast in our country, especially if they are spread through social media. It is therefore very important to take further steps in this area. What are the criteria for carrying out research into such experiments? Are you already aware of this new trend?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u77	Indeed, we are often confronted with new phenomena and now they are often distributed via social media, whether by vloggers or influencers, who are widely followed in all kinds of apps and on social media. Because we have little grasp of this, it is important to equip children and adolescents sufficiently against the potential dangers arising from the different media. Among other things Child Focus regularly establishes contacts for safer use of the Internet by children. For the Bright Eye Challenge, an important ingredient is indeed bleach, the toxicity of which is known to man. Exposure of the eye to bleach can have very harmful effects. corneal lesions after eye exposure are possible. These lesions are usually moderate, with irritation, discomfort and an impairment of the corneal epithelial layer, which is not equally thick either. For example, if you want to undergo laser treatment, the thickness of the cornea should normally be determined first, because it is not the same for everyone. There are severe and permanent injuries in some people in the form of burns on the cornea. This is usually due to a higher concentration or perhaps a slightly thinner cornea. In case of an accident or deliberate exposure, you can immediately consult the Antitoxin Centre website. The Antitoxin Centre is also available by phone. The doctor may also obtain information under the heading bleach. TikTok would have taken measures in the meantime. The videos of the Bright Eye Challenge would have been removed by now, which does not prevent the phenomenon from finding its way through other channels. However, it is also the responsibility of the people who put such dangerous things online. One does not need to have taken a course in chemistry to know that bleach and eyes really do not go together. There are sometimes accidental exposures, usually because a chaste product or another product ends up in one eye through a spatter. However, such products also mention that they should be kept out of the reach of children. Using such products to change the eyes, therefore seems to me to be a very dangerous undertaking. That's almost like benji jumping without knowing how long the rope is.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u78	Madam Minister, I would have liked to have an answer to the question as to what criteria are needed to have such experimental behaviour investigated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u79	Are you asking for criteria?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u80	I am asking for the criteria to be used to carry out an investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u81	It's just not allowed. No criteria should be laid down. Under no circumstances is there any reason to let bleach come into an eye. We don't make criteria for something that's completely wrong, do we?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u82	I would particularly like to know what the criteria are for assessing the problem in our country. Just as nitrous oxide used to be misjudged, so is today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u83	We can only assess the problem through the reports that come from the Antitoxin Centre or from the doctors. Otherwise, we cannot judge it. Are those criteria? No, that is the number of cases where the product is used. As you say, it seems to be a rather local and limited phenomenon. However, when it comes to social media, it will be different. I've never consulted TikTok before. However, there are many vulnerable, naive groups that will. At that moment, there is indeed another appeal. At present, however, we do not yet have a report from the Antitoxin Centre that there have been more cases. Nevertheless, the information is now deleted. We will see what the consequences are.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u84	Mr President, Minister, I did not hear it through TikTok. Probably too old to get in touch with it, too, even if it could be through my son. I read in De Morgen on 22 November that there appears to be a new hype, namely the inhaling of alcohol. Customers order a balloon alcohol at café and apparently they are already quite drunk after one deep breath. The Flemish expertise centre for Alcohol and other Drugs responded in the newspaper that the use of alcohol in this way is totally irresponsible. Apparently, it's very hip among young people right now. Maybe my colleague Farih can confirm that. I was particularly interested that Horeca Flanders said in a reaction that it has absolutely no idea if everything is happening according to the rules and referred to the FPS Public Health to check that out. Then, of course, the logical question is the following. Madam Secretary, are you and your services aware of this new way of drinking alcohol? Have you received any reports? What are the possible consequences? Are there guidelines regarding the catering industry because Horeca referred Flanders to you? Then there's my usual question. Are information or awareness campaigns planned in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u85	Mr President, Minister, I think Mrs Creemers has asked most of my questions. A specific example is a café in Ghent that has balloons on the map and sells. I also wonder if you are aware of this new trend. Is this allowed or is it subject to specific conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u86	It seems that questions are being asked in this committee about the most inventive situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u87	Mr President, I only note that most of the inspiration for the questions, except a few, comes from newspaper articles that were read during Christmas holidays. That's always amazing. We have indeed been informed of the existence of this practice. So far I have no knowledge of any scientific research into the way alcohol is consumed, but it turns out that inhalation of alcohol can cause the alcohol to be absorbed more quickly by the body than with the traditional way of alcohol intake, which is swallowing. We are therefore vigilant about the consequences of this new phenomenon. As regards sales to young people, the same rules apply to the sale of alcohol in its traditional form. These balloons are therefore considered as alcoholic beverages by the FPS Public Health. This can be derived from the information distributed by the seller of these products. It is mentioned that the balloon is filled with a fog of very small drops of alcohol. In addition, the seller stated that it is not a evaporation of alcohol but a nebuliser, with the aggregation state remaining unchanged. Since only spirits or pure alcohol are sprayed, these balloons should certainly not be sold to minors. I also wonder what the added value of these balloons is. Currently, the FPS Public Health only knows about one catering shop where these products are offered. I will not tell you where it is, otherwise it will all be there. If it turns out that the checks of the Public Health Office should be supported by a sensitising campaign, I am obliged to refer you to the Länder, given the simple political system in this country. I cannot and cannot take initiatives like this. They are, to my great regret, out of my jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u88	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. This was in the newspaper on 22 November, even before the holiday, with mention of city and street. It is good that you are vigilant and clearly state that this should not be sold to minors. The checks may prove that this should be supported by a campaign. This does not really belong to your powers, but I understand that there is good consultation with the Länder. So you can always make that suggestion and we can do it ourselves through our colleagues in the other parliaments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u89	Madam Minister, thanks to the reforms, there is a maximum rate of EUR 60 for urgent hospital transport. However, if one decides to move a patient from hospital A to hospital B, the maximum rate will expire. If urgent hospital transport is required by a doctor, the rates go up. With the arrival of hospital networks, it was pointed out earlier that this could be a problem. It was said at that time that an adapted framework would be created for non-urgent inter-hospital transport. Since 1 January, the hospital networks have been established. The question is whether, in the meantime, a framework has already been created for the maximum rates, which can provide a solution for inter-hospital transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u90	Mrs Farih, I understand your concern about the potentially high transport costs for the patient in certain forms of interhospital transport. A similar concern was expressed in the previous legislature for the urgent transport of sick people, for which I am responsible. We then introduced a flat rate of EUR 60 for the patient, regardless of the distance to be travelled. It is true that this has tripled the federal injection for urgent medical transport. Networks will not change much in interhospital transport: the financial contribution for the patient remains within reasonable limits. It is also a success factor for the success of cooperation within a local hospital network. Non-urgent transport is a regional competence. This has been included in the Flemish coalition agreement and I have been informed that Minister Beke is creating a decree framework for this. However, it is still too early for a landing. I should also like to point out that no dossier of a local hospital network in Flanders has been completed, even though we have had to rush very fast, because the other Länder have been in the forefront for two or three years. Interhospital transport can also be critical, with the speed at which the transport is carried out being primordial for the recovery or survival of the patient or requiring continuous intensive medical supervision. In this case, the emergency medical aid resources can be used after consultation with the local emergency centre 112, if there are no other vehicles available or because of the urgency. Where such intervention is carried out by means of urgent medical assistance, the invoicing rules as provided for in the Royal Decree of 28 November 2018 shall apply. The invoice is then up to 60 euros for the patient. That arrangement is also the subject of a letter of 4 September 2006. Given the division of powers, it cannot be extended to non-urgent interhospital transport. I would also point out that, in principle, there is no double charge for the daily price when the patient is transported to another hospital for certain examinations. If the patient returns to the original hospital on the same day, no day-care fee may be charged by the hospital where the examinations took place, but the fees and possibly a daily fee. The latter depends on the type of investigation. If the patient has to stay overnight after the examinations, the admission to the original hospital will stop and a new admission will start at the hospital where the examinations will take place, including without overlapping. That is what is happening today and is not specific to the hospital networks. I would add, however, that it is of course better for the patient to be admitted immediately to the hospital where the examinations or interventions take place during a planned examination. The patient can then be transferred to a hospital closer to home for further rehabilitation. The same rule applies in this respect, since the patient is registered in one hospital and registered in the other hospital without overlapping. It is up to the hospitals to organise themselves within the hospital networks in such a way that the number of transports is kept to a minimum. These are locoregional networks, which aim to improve the quality of care for patients in hospitals. This is often confused with supra-regional care, which is much more specialised. Since there are also reference centres, there is already a referral in hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u91	Madam Minister, you say that the daily prices cannot be double charged, but I have received signals that this is the case. However, I will check that again and check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u92	Such cases must be reported through the sickness fund to the Medical Evaluation and Control Service of the RIZIV. I say it time and time again: anyone who notices anything abnormal should pass it on to the sickness fund, which can contact the RIZIV services. Patients can also contact our services directly. Of course, we need to be informed. For example, we have also received reports from doctors who charge two consultations in one consultation in a hospital. We have also been able to take measures to this end thanks to the monitoring of invoices.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u93	Madam Minister, thanks to representatives of the people, this can also be done here. You said that the second transport would then fall within reasonable prices. Is there a framework for that? A maximum rate has been set for the first transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u94	The first transport to a hospital is usually an urgent medical transport. People don't just go from home with an ambulance to the hospital unless there's really no other way to move. The second transport can be urgent and then the same rate applies. If it's not urgent, it's Minister Beke's jurisdiction. He is now working on a framework for this. You are, of course, well placed to ask my colleague Beke how he sees it, since he is a member of your party.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u95	I wanted to confine myself here to federal matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u96	Question No 55001771C by Mrs Rohonyi is postponed. Question No 55001590C by Mrs Depraetere is transformed into a written question at her request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u97	Madam Minister, in February 2019 the Royal Decree concerning the profession of orthoptist optometrist was published in the Belgian Official Journal. Both the orthopedists, the ophthalmologists and the opticians objected to that royal decision before the Council of State. Pending the judgment of the Council of State, the French Community had postponed for an indefinite period the recognition and equivalence of diplomas. In Flanders, the recognition committee for the new profession orthoptic optometry was apparently not properly compiled, and objections were therefore raised by the ophthalmologists, an objection which was also accepted. That's why that commission was disbanded. What are the consequences of the incorrect composition and therefore the dissolution of the recognition committee in Flanders, including the decisions taken by the committee before? Are these decisions going to go away? What's the deal with that, exactly? The French Community has postponed recognition indefinitely. What is your view and opinion on this and what is to be done in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u98	Mrs Van Camp, you say it yourself: the composition of the recognition committee is a competence of the Communities. As a federal minister, I have no say at all in the composition or functioning of the system. If that committee were dissolved, a new committee would indeed have to be set up in accordance with the requirements. That's where I see the solution. You are asking for my opinion on the postponement of recognition in the French Community. Again, this is their jurisdiction. They will certainly have their reasons. If this is not the case, then that is also the reality. Indeed, several parties have opted to initiate legal proceedings against the KB concerning the orthoptist orthometrist. This case is pending before the Council of State, where proceedings are followed. As long as there is no statement that this KB, or some of it, is not valid, the KB will remain in force as always.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u99	Madam Minister, recently it appeared in the press that the increase in breast mortality may not be due to the fight against the buxus moth, but to the active substances on flea straps of domestic animals. Flea straps are processed with different types of insecticides to keep fleas and ticks away from pets, but they also end up in nature through hair loss. Megs apparently use that hair as nest material and get sick in that way. The use of insecticides on flea straps is potentially dangerous not only for other animals but also for humans. According to a 2012 Test Purchase study, collars would contain insecticide dimpylate, tetrachlorovinphos or propoxur. These substances would be found on the flea tyres of the brands Propoxur, Kiltix, Prevender and Preventef, and are the reason why these products are less and less recommended. Madam Minister, does federal legislation follow or deviate from the European regulation for the insecticides mentioned above? Are there any collars with the insecticide dimpylate, tetrachlorovinphos or propoxur available on our market? What is the assessment by the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products of the risk to public health of these substances? If the sector itself indicated that it would no longer recommend collars containing these substances, would it not be better to simply ban these collars? Do you think that's a good idea?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u100	I will certainly not fail to thank my colleague for the fact that I am now allowed to talk about flea straps. These products are intended for use in animals based on dimpylate, diazinon, tetrachlorovinphos or propoxur. They can only be placed on the market in Belgium under the status of veterinary medicinal product. The said products, Propoxur, Kiltix, Prevender and Preventef are therefore authorised as veterinary medicinal products. The products Propoxur, Kiltix and Prevender are the only products based on dimpylate and propoxur authorised in Belgium as veterinary medicinal products. No medicinal products are authorised based on tetrachlorovinphos. The marketing authorisation for the product Preventef was withdrawn as early as October 2019 for commercial reasons by the person responsible for its placing on the market. So that's from the market. All veterinary medicinal products marketed in Belgium were authorised on the basis of the European Directive No. 82 of 2001, as amended by Directive No. 82 of 2004. My services carry out a risk-benefit assessment when examining the application for a marketing authorisation. In doing so, they shall consider both the risk to public health, the risks to the target animal, the animal that will wear the collar...... and the risks to the environment, on the basis of the European Directives. If the benefit-risk ratio is not positive, the product cannot be authorised to place it on the market. If this ratio is favourable and is authorised to place it on the market, medicinal products are subject to pharmacovigilance obligations and undesirable effects on the target animal, the user and the environment must be reported to the Agency. If pharmacovigilance shows that the benefit-risk assessment is no longer positive, this may lead to the withdrawal or suspension of the medicinal product concerned and all similar medicinal products authorised in the European Union following a European referral procedure. The periodic safety update reports submitted for the products concerned show that their sales volumes in Belgium are very limited and that no adverse effects on the environment have been reported so far. The results of the study in the Netherlands on the cause of the mortality of the pissants were a Dutch study known to the European Medicines Agency and will also be followed there, with a view to possible further action at European level, including probably a European referral procedure. On the basis of the conclusions of the EEA evaluation, the FAGG will also act if necessary or if there is a complaint.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u101	Thank you for your comprehensive reply, Madam Secretary. I'll read it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u102	Mrs Depoorter has asked for her questions. 55001806C and 550018110C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u103	Mr President, Minister, I have a question about hearing aids, for which there is still a lot of work to be done in terms of patient accessibility. During the previous legislature, we questioned you several times on the subject. We were also urged to introduce a better refund for various hearing aids. However, a lot of work remains to be done. For example, a few months ago, we read in the newspapers that a three-year-old child had been given a cochlear implant. However, at the age of 17, when the implant no longer satisfied and the child urgently needed a second implant in order to continue to function properly, reimbursement was no longer possible. That reimbursement is valid only up to the age of 12 years. So the relaxed rules still do not apply to everyone. For those who have to pay such an implant out of their own pocket, we are talking about some EUR 16,000, which is really too high an amount to pay for themselves. I have also said several times in committee that it will only be your child who can only participate in society when it can hear again. That is why I am wondering. Why doesn't that sigh be met? If we can give these people a chance in our society again, there will also be a lot of payback effects. Several studies show that when their hearing problems are resolved, these children can produce good results in their studies, obtain diplomas and enter society into the labour market. A second problem arises not only with those children from 12 years of age, but also with the BAHA devices, although an improvement has now been made there. In addition to taking part in society, I would like to point out the costs that we incur today for interpreters and which should also be charged if we were to pay back proper hearing aids. So my question remains whether you will finally provide for a refund for all the hearing implants. Do you recognise that there is not only a social benefit in this way, but that there are certainly payback effects in terms of interpretation costs? The reasoning is that there has been progressive hearing loss from 12 years onwards and that there would therefore no longer be any provision for reimbursement. That's why so many people fall off the boat, reducing their quality of life. Do you wish to respond to that? If yes, when and how? There is still work to be done, not only with regard to cochlear implants, but also with regard to the BAHA devices, although there has already been an improvement in the area of reimbursement. This often affects people whose normal hearing aids are no longer working, resulting in social isolation. We are also talking here about a cost of thousands of euros. These devices must be replaced every 5 years. A full refund is still not provided for. What will you do to repay both the cochlear implants and BAHA devices for all categories?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u104	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, I will have to give you an update on which there was nothing in the newspapers. The criteria for the conditions of reimbursement are based on data from the scientific literature demonstrating the benefits of a cochlear implant in various cases of hearing loss. The Committee on Implants and Invasive Medical Devices of the RIZIV shall make every effort to take decisions based on available evidence and taking into account the budgetary possibilities for helping as many people as possible. Those adjustments, which required a great deal of preparation, we have made. We have extended the reimbursement of medical benefits. In some cases, there was indeed sufficient scientific data available to assume that sufficient added value could be obtained from sufficient persons. This is always weighed against the cost of compulsory insurance for society. The aim is to achieve an efficient and effective budget allocation. According to the WHO, more than 360 million people, i.e. more than 5% of the world's population, suffer from disability. The deafness may be present at birth or occur later. The added value of a cochlear implant depends on the severity of hearing loss, whether the hearing loss is bilateral or not, on the moment of implantation relative to the time of onset of deafness and of the patient's age. The price is indeed 16,000 euros for the intervention, rehabilitation and implant. The scientific consensus is that these costs are justified for an implant in the first ear, so the worst ear. The limited added value of a second cochlear implant for an adult is disproportionate to the additional cost. Cochlear implants are refunded for deaf persons and since the extension on 1 December 2019 also for persons with severe hearing loss. This means that about twice more patients can be eligible for a refund. A survey of Belgian throat, nose and ear doctors earlier this year, during the assessment of the extension of the criteria, showed that they did not regard a second cochlear implant as a priority for adults. Bilateral cochlear implants for children up to 12 years of age are, however, refunded because there are studies that provide added value for the development of the child, i.e. better speech, better language development and better school skills. There is currently no refund of a second cochlear implant for patients over 12 years of age. It is possible that this can also have a positive effect on balance, sound, localization or quality of life. There are indeed adults with a second cochlear implant who say that they benefit from this, but that has not been proven. Scientific literature has shown that this is not the case for everyone and that a unilateral cochlear implant gives most deaf people a relevant improvement in hearing and quality of life, but at present there is not enough scientific information available in adults to determine who would benefit from a second cochlear implant and who would not. One of the reasons for this would be that the brain plasticity necessary for optimal auditory capabilities with a cochlear implant tends to decline after childhood. That is why early intervention is needed. It is also recommended by the scientific studies and the Belgian throat, nose and ear doctors. A second cochlear implant for children up to 12 years of age will therefore be refunded for several years. When the criteria of 1 December 2019 were extended, it was therefore decided not to refund a second cochlear implant for adults or teenagers over 12 years of age. If a cochlear implant is inserted just before the age of 12 years, the parents must be informed by the physician about the limitation to 12 years and that a second implant will no longer be possible. This limitation is clearly described in the regulations, but this was not communicated in the article in question. Since 1 February 2019, an amendment has also been made to Article 31 of the nomenclature of medical benefits in kind for BAHA devices. This implies an increase in the reimbursement of blunt-ranking guidance by means of an additional allowance, on top of the allowance for air guidance equipment. The provision of the additional allowance for a leg guidance device shall be split into a leg guidance allowance without bone anchorage and six new bone guidance benefits benefits with bone anchorage. An initial provision and renewal are provided for the three different age categories. This measure will therefore result in a huge reduction in the beneficiary's own contribution. The invasive part, the implant of a BAHA, has been fully reimbursed by the health insurance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u105	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. The improved reimbursement that was introduced, including on our demand, is certainly appreciated and already makes a difference in practice. However, I repeat that this is still not being paid back for everyone. It is said that it would not be a priority or an unproven one, but that is, of course, a fallacy. That is for budgetary reasons. For those who cannot hear and already had an implant and have it renewed, the argument of brain plasticity does not apply at all. That should also be paid back. As already mentioned, deaf people themselves have not asked for their deafness. We can help them, and that is also the duty of our society, so that they can once again participate in education and the labour market. I don't understand why that doesn't happen or why it doesn't. I must confess that it also took some time before our previous plea was followed. We will therefore continue to argue in this dossier until the reimbursement is fully settled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u106	It is 1 p.m. and so we will end this sitting unless you wish to continue, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic085x.u107	Mr President, I would like to, but I am responsible for three departments, so I have a heavy agenda. I can't come back until 11:00 tonight.
