ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u1	As you know, in a topical debate, it is plowing that each group can ask to speak, but only one member per group participates in the debate. I propose that we start with those Members who have tabled a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u2	Mr President, Minister, we recently read that the punctuality of trains has improved considerably over the past year. More than nine trains out of ten arrive on time. However, some passengers do not notice any of this. For Kempenaren the situation is even sad. This is also demonstrated by an analysis of the different railway lines by TrainTramBus. On some routes there is much more delay than on others. The Brussels-Mol rush train scores the worst of all Flanders and the Brussels-Turnhout section, of which that rush train is a part, is the most affected by delays, according to the analysis of TrainTramBus. Between Turnhout and Brussels, 84.1 % of trains were delayed by less than six minutes. A further 1.7 % of trains were abolished. The average delay was four minutes and 56 seconds between Brussels and Turnhout. In the opposite direction, 72.7 % of trains were delayed by less than six minutes. This is problematic for travellers who have to make a connection with another train or bus. A further 3.3 % of trains were abolished. The average delay was seven minutes and 10 seconds. I'm on that P train myself, and I have to say that he often has to wait to give priority to other trains. Last week we waited 15 minutes at the station of Herentals to give priority to an empty train that had to be on track A. Isn't that the biggest problem? Can we look at the priority rules on the railways? Can't trains be better matched? In my view, it is incomprehensible that an empty train should take precedence over a full one. What is also the cause of the many delays on the Brussels-Turnhout line? How come the P-train from Brussels to Mol scores the worst of all Flanders? What measures are you taking to improve punctuality on the Brussels-Turnhout line? What specific measures are being taken for the P-train from Brussels to Mol? On that line very old equipment is deployed. Retro may be 'in', but with trains we prefer to see it differently. In how many cases does the use of this old equipment lead to delays? Do you have any idea when the M6 trains will go to the Kempen? In response to an earlier oral question in this committee, you stated that other measures are being studied for the Kempen to improve punctuality. What new elements will be included in the new transport plan for the Kempen? What solutions do you expect from cutting the Turnhout-Binche line? This is an idea that has often been put forward here by colleagues and that you would seem to be looking into it. Will a cut like that be a real solution? After all, the Mol-Brussels P-train, which is also a cut-off line, has a lot of delays, even the highest number of Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u3	Mr President, Minister, SNCB's punctuality figures have improved, but the figures do not correspond to the feeling of travellers. Delays of less than six minutes are therefore not seen as delays. Missed connections are not included in the statistics, just as abolished trains are not included in the calculation of delays. However, these conditions are very far-reaching for travellers. The line at which delays are highest in Flanders is the Brussels-Mol line. Those who drive from Mol to Brussels every weekday... I am such a person.. arrives only one day a week punctually on time at work or at home. Technical problems, defects, delays for any reason, it certainly happens a few times a week that the passengers arrive at their destination with delay. It has come to this extent that travellers have long accepted the delays. One reacts and no longer looks up to ten minutes more or less. The travelers never know when they'll be home. That way it is very difficult to organize life. Picking up kids, shopping or doing hobbies are things you should be able to plan. The dated train sets are drawn by a completely obsolete locomotive. There is no air conditioning and there are no information signs on the train. So just at the very least punctual train of Flanders passengers are not sufficiently clearly informed about the coming stops and any delays that may occur. What is the main cause of these delays? How old are the trains and locomotives operating on the Brussels-Mol line? Is it true that Desiro trains have operated the Brussels-Mol line in the past? If so, during what period? And why are they no longer active on this route today? Will the new M7 trains also run on the Mol-Brussels line? If so, when? Will this solve the whole problem of delays? To get the commuters out of their car and on the train, the offer will have to be increased from Mol towards Brussels and vice versa. Does SNCB have plans to increase the train supply from Mol?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u4	Minister, I have similar questions about the two problems, the Brussels-Mol line and the connection in Herentals. I'm in good company today. There are many colleagues from the Antwerp Kempen. Only, the trains don't stop at the county border. I want to give a voice today to those people who come from beyond, the people on line 19. There are problems there. At the connection in Herentals the switching time is very short. There's a lot of delays. Many people get to Herentals or Mol and are forced to wait there. The transition time is very short. Are there other solutions possible to ensure that people do not beach in the station of Herentals or Mol? I would also like to link today to line 19 where electrification works are in progress. I can imagine that there will be a lot of changes to the train supply in that region once these works have been completed. How's the electrification coming? Are the works on schedule? When will these works be completed? Will there be electric trains instead of diesel trains? Will the timetable change? Today there is a direct train from Mol to Brussels. Is there supposed to be an electric train leaving from Hamont in the future? Or is the Brussels-Mol peak hour train extended to Hamont? What equipment can we expect? Are those air-conditioned train sets? Is it intended to do something at the frequency of a train per hour on line 19? After all, this causes a lot of problems today, because if something goes wrong, there will soon be a waiting period of 45 to 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u5	Mr President, Minister, passenger trains to the Kempen and, in the event of enlargement to North Limburg, are decades of suffering. I believe that for decades SNCB has been treating that region as a stepmother. The inhabitants, for example those who work in Brussels or Antwerp, do not deserve this. I must confess that much progress has been made in recent years, but not enough, and I am talking about quantity and quality. With regard to quality, punctuality, some colleagues are asking about causes. In my opinion, the main cause lies in a fundamentally wrong choice, after the recently extended electrification from Herentals to Mol, to use that connection obsolete, although renovated, equipment. Together with colleagues across all party boundaries, we are asking parties. SNCB buys additional equipment with the M7 carriages. So there are shifts. I think it should stop that there are always movement from top to bottom, where the penultimate material becomes the last material, used in North Limburg and in the Kempen. I think that explains the very poor punctuality figures compared to other train connections. Secondly, there is an opportunity: electrification is finally being extended to North Limburg. These works will be completed in December 2020. It seems to me, therefore, that the current train link, which was extended from Herentals to Mol, is being extended to North Limburg, and that this is happening with new material. In a third point, I would like to point out a second wrong choice, namely the extension to Binche. The connection to or from that region offers no added value, as departing passengers from the Kempen do not have Binche as their destination. That connection is a cause of delays in transit and therefore from the Binche region in evening traffic. Finally, I come to the quantity. At the moment there are two rush hour trains in the morning and two rush hour trains in the evening. If North Limburg can also be served by the end of 2020, that seems too little to me. So I am asking for an extension of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the punctuality of the trains is greatly improving, but we Kempenaars do not yet feel that much of it. According to a study by TrainTramBus, two very important lines from the Kempen appear to be the Achilles heel of SNCB. The peak hour train arrives only one day at four on time and the line I take myself regularly, the train from Turnhout to Brussels that runs to Binche, also faces a lot of delays. The last train arrives on time in only 72% of the cases. It is also a distorted image, because it is based on the delay on the whole line. As a result, it is quite possible that we will arrive in Brussels with a delay of 20 minutes which has run back into the end of the line. The commuters from the Kempen certainly do not have the impression that the punctuality improves. We have asked several questions about these issues and you announced measures for that route at a previous meeting. The day before yesterday we could read in the newspaper what measures the transport plan provides for for this line. I would like to ask a few questions about this, because we have still not received the final transport plan. Only a few seem to have that information here. That is strange, because all the members of this committee should have the same information. Mr Minister, I come to my specific questions. What are the reasons for the huge delays on the Brussels-Mol and Brussels-Turnhout lines? What measures has SNCB already taken to improve punctuality on these lines? What measures, according to the above study, are needed to improve punctuality on these lines? I have a more general question. You mentioned a punctuality improvement plan for 2020-2023. Where do you stand with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u7	Colleagues, the action plan for punctuality, as we have seen, paid off in 2019. Global punctuality increased from 87.2 % in 2018 to 90.4 % in 2019. The punctuality improvement plan 2020-2030 is currently being finalised. You asked me a lot of questions about the punctuality of the Turhout-Binche link and, by extension, about the P-train between Mol and Brussels. SNCB acknowledges that the punctuality figures on that line are less. The punctuality on the Turhout-Binche connection has been followed by a specific working group since last year. Some of the measures that have already been taken include early departure from Binche, an adjustment when entering Lier and Herentals and the signaling system in Tielen, adapted performance of drivers and adjustments to freight transport. Those measures led to an improvement of more than 7 percentage points in 2019 compared to 2018. More and more refurbished rolling stock will be used in the future and more M6 vehicles will be used from 2021 onwards. The problems on the IC-11 Turnhout-Binche route are very specific. These problems were described in an annex, which I will provide you with. For the P-trains between Brussels-South and Mol, the problems are similar to those for the IC-11. Moreover, there is a greater risk of delays due to the high number of stops. Therefore, the number of stops, the stop time and the driving time of the P-trains are currently being reviewed. Due to the heavy traffic, including freight traffic, on line 15 Antwerp-Mol, there is unfortunately little margin to make adjustments. Due to the numerous crossings and many single-track sections, a small delay during the first part of the route, between Brussels-North and Turnhout, can be rapid. A timely departure from Brussels-North to reach the branches and single-track sections on time is therefore important. By splitting the Turhout-Binche link in Brussels, the delays resulting from the heavy traffic on line 96 Halle-Brussels-South would no longer be transferred to the Brussels-South-Turnhout section. SNCB has examined an option whereby in the transport plan 2020-2023 the IC-22 from Brussels-Zuid via Vilvoorde and Mechelen drives to Turnhout. The IC-11 would drive from Binche via Brussels-South and Mechelen to Antwerp-Central. Unfortunately, this option is not operationally feasible. This explanation is also set out in the Annex. In the light of the transport plan 2023-2026 the IC-11 Turnhout-Binche connection will be reviewed. In particular, SNCB will examine whether the Turnhout-Brussels section can be limited to Brussels-South or linked to another link. This will not be possible without structural adjustments to the transport plan, with the timetable of many trains being adjusted both in Brussels and in the Kempen. In the long term, a structural solution is only possible if rail capacity is addressed at several critical points. An additional increase in the direct train supply between Kempen and Brussels, without further pressure on robustness, is currently not possible. Desiros are ideally suited as a stop train on and in suburban networks. However, they are less suitable for long IC or P connections. You can find more information about the equipment in the annex. On 5 March 2020, SNCB will sit with the intercommunal of the Kempense mayors. The punctuality will undoubtedly be discussed at that time. SNCB informs me that, within the framework of the 2020-2023 transport plan, it has examined an extension of the P-train between Mol and Brussels to and from Neerpelt. In December 2019, the Transport Plan 2020-2023 was approved by the Management Board. Subsequently, the draft transport plan was delivered to the FPS Mobility and Transport in January 2020. In early April 2020, SNCB will order the lanes from Infrastructure Manager Infrabel. At the end of this process, SNCB will inform passengers and all interested parties in detail about the new transport plan. It is therefore too early to talk about the equipment that may be deposited. The electrification of line 19 does not imply an increase in capacity. For an increase in the frequency of a cadancing connection between Mol and Hamont, waiting for a partial doubling of the tracks between Mol and Hamont. Mr Verduyckt, you had a question about the connection during the evening pits. In Herentals there is a seven-minute transfer time between the Brussels and Mechelen trains and the IC-10 Antwerpen-Central, Hamont and Hasselt. In the daytime, SNCB can add two more minutes. In the evening pits there are five extra minutes possible. A further delay cannot be granted by SNCB, since the IC-10 runs largely over a single track between Mol and Hamant and between Mol and Hasselt and can only cross a number of points with the trains in the opposite direction. NMBS data show that 83.3 % of the connections to Hamant were successful during the day 2019 and 82.8 % during the evening pits.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u8	Minister, the many questions here in committee clearly show that the problem really lives in our region. We are indeed being treated stepmotherly. Kempeners taking the train have to deal daily with delays or abolished trains on the line in question. I am therefore pleased to hear that from 2021 more M6 cars will appear in the Kempen. Currently, the line Turnhout-Binche is like a moving railway museum. There are classics, pig noses and M4's, they're all older than I am and believe it or not I'm almost 36. The old trains are regularly broken down and that, of course, also causes delays. The large number of consideration in the Kempen causes additional problems; all too often there are accidents or defects in these transitions. I would therefore ask you to pay sufficient attention to the structural safety of rail links in the Kempen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The passengers will be put on the wrong track again, because the commuters between Mol and Brussels pay the same amount for a train ticket, while they still get the worst service. It could be better. We therefore hope to speed up the deployment of the new M7 trains on the Mol-Brussels line. You say it is too early to talk about this, but they were already ordered in 2015. I am therefore very concerned about that. We are also looking forward to additional trains to and from the Kempen in the next transport plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Mr Verherstraeten states that electrification would be completed by December 2020, but I do not hear you say that. Can that be confirmed? There should be a view of that by now. You say that new M6 devices are being deployed on the line in question. Are they supposed to drive to the end, to Hamont? Will the transport plan only reveal whether a link is being established between Hamont and Brussels, or is its construction absolutely the intention and is it already in place? That was not clear to me at all from your answer. You say that 83 % of the connections are reached and 82 % in the evening pits. But that does mean, in summary, that the travelers who have to go to the Noorderkempen and Limburg have an extra hour a day a week on their feet. That's a lot. I agree with PVDA's colleague. Those people also pay a ticket, so one day a week is really too much, even though that five-minute delay regime is being applied there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Also commuters in peripheral areas such as the Noorderkempen and North Limburg, pay taxes and thus have the same right to mobility as those who live more centrally. If, rightly, we are talking about progress on climate, then besides housing mobility is a crucial factor. If people in peripheral areas are to be given opportunities, there must be additional investment. First of all, Minister, in your reply you indicated that there are problems with the double track. How is it possible that a city like Turnhout doesn't have a double trail to Herentals? How is it possible that a town like Lommel doesn't have a double trail to Mol? Realize that; that does not require phenomenal amounts. Secondly, I read that more M6 double deck trains will be used on the line Turhout-Binche, which I welcome. I also read that the M4 peak hour trains, now from Mol and hopefully later from Neerpelt or Hamont, will be phased out of service. When one gradually removes the M4's from the track, which is more than right, I absolutely advocate starting with it in North Limburg and the Kempen. Thirdly, two peak hour trains from North Limburg to Brussels in the morning and evening, that is simply too little. I expressly ask your staff to note that. The electrification must be completed by December 2020 and I hope that there will be no further delay. I call on you to ensure that that timing is met. At the same time, I call for at least one peak hour train to be added both in the morning and in the evening. Then you can also commute from that region during the peak to work in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u12	Minister, you are regularly questioned by Kempenaren in our committee for a reason. I would therefore like to endorse what Mr Verherstraeten has said: in the Kempen we are dependent on good public transport and anyone who chooses it must also be rewarded. However, I was very confused by your answer. You say that according to the new transport plan 2020-2023 the Turnhout-Binche line will not be cut in Brussels. What about the transport plan 2023-2026? Are you sure there's a cut in there? In the press, we heard that would be the case, but I want clarity. Is it certain or is it still to be investigated? In short, what is the latest state of affairs?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u13	We need to know that the equipment in Campine has suffered from a very long delay in the operational choices that have been made over the last twenty years, do not hide it! The province has the largest number of diesel-powered trains compared to electric trains. The first thing to do is to restore the infrastructure. I think the local authorities intend to meet with SNCB. I believe that it will be necessary to insist and also to have the courage to say that not all trains must stop everywhere, at all stations. It seems to me that you have to have the Dutch model in mind. It must be accepted that trains pass over tracks, but do not stop there. If we want to have a quick junction to Brussels, we must accept a reduction in stops. That is true here, as it is elsewhere. Examples exist in Wallonia where mayors have accepted a grouping of two or even three communes on a single station they have chosen together. On the lines concerned, travel times were reduced from 10 to 12 minutes. I invite all the mayors and the local authorities to think about it. As for the implementation of new rolling stock on the lines, it is obvious that the first order of the M7 cars is about to arrive and that SNCB has already gradually planned where they will go. It's his autonomy. I didn't intervene in the operational part. As part of the second order, it will be necessary to keep in mind that the use of M7s is preferred for long-distance trains, such as the Binche-Bruxelles-Turnhout line, because they are high-capacity trains, with technical acceleration and braking capabilities much better than those of the current conventional equipment. I can't promise you that this will be done for the next transportation plan. We need to know how this works between the Minister and SNCB. As a member of this committee for 20 years, I met ministers who were even involved in defining the time at which trains were to arrive at certain stations. I don't do that kind of thing. I would like to point out that since SNCB drew up its transport plan by going to the local authorities – a first from 2014 to 2016 – growth has now reached 3,5 to 4%, whereas before they were around 1%. The point of a meeting between SNCB and the mayors – and no doubt with the governor – is that, in this way, they will be able to insist that the company be attentive to problems that have not yet been taken into account. It is operational and concrete, but ask yourself also if it is necessary to have the trains stopped at all the Campino stations. A balance must be struck between the speed at which one wants to reach Brussels and the number of stops. I know it's hard to see a train in his station without stopping there. However, when some stations through which P trains pass are separated by a distance of less than five kilometres, I believe that is no longer the case. It must be accepted according to a vision of future rail mobility. Of course, L trains can take you to the larger stations. And then we have to continue the electrification work towards the Netherlands. This must be seen in a more general context of the IJzeren Rijn, an extremely complicated issue at the international level – not with the Germans, but with the Dutch. There is a constant need to support SNCB in this process, which is more politically complicated than technically complicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u14	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his reply and I very much appreciate it. Mr Minister, you are opening a thought path that may be refreshing, but may I ask you a very specific question? A little less stops in intermediate municipalities or between smaller municipalities in order to create speed and thus reduce delays, is a piste. I believe, however, that this can only be achieved if, at the same time, proposals of improved quality and quantity are also put on the table. You have heard me: I do not ask for hours and the colleagues and residents of Geel do not ask for an hour train to and from Brussels, we just ask for something for the peaks. Can I make you a very specific proposal? At the beginning of March, the intercommunal and mayors will see the services of Infrabel and SNCB. Prick your services as you do in the mind. Let them make concrete proposals which also suggest renewal of material and capacity expansion, along with possible slopes. That can then be debated with each other. However, it cannot be that we get less with fewer stops. It must be a win-win situation for everyone, for passengers and for railways.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u15	Minister, I can very much follow you in the idea that there should not be a stop place everywhere. However, I do not want to mention turnhout or Mol. They are big cities in the Kempen, where we have to create a hub. In countries such as Switzerland or Austria, the rail network is being looked at in a very different way, and we must also dare to do so. Thus we need to look at shorter distances between nodes to create, allowing us to get more connections. Turnhout and Mol are big cities in the Kempen that I think deserve to be properly connected to Brussels. In the period 2020-2023, the cut will not be there, but I wonder if this will be the case in the period 2023-2026, which means that the train from Turnhout will have Brussels as its final destination and will not continue until Binche. In that respect, I'm still hungry.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u16	Mr President, Minister, I cannot therefore answer my question about electrification works and when they will be completed. You are throwing it into one pile with the Iron Rhine, which is indeed a very complicated dossier. However, electrification does not seem to me to be a complicated dossier, which is simply an implementation dossier. So I would have liked to know if there was a timing for that. I have another thought at the stations. In the year I was born, there's been a very big fusion wave. At that time, Geel, Mol and Lommel were the largest municipalities in our country. If you look at the region, you will find that these stations are quite far apart. I even think that the people from the north of Limburg are quite willing to sit on the train for a few minutes longer if they know that they should stop switching. If we do not have to make this transition, there is enormous progress in ease of use, all the more so because the switch is often not made. Whether there's the big problem, I don't know. That can always be seen, but I have my doubts about that. I therefore call for a direct train from North Limburg to Brussels. That's gonna make those people really happy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u17	Minister, I am glad that, thanks to you, a French-speaking member is also present in committee today. That's a sign of interest. Specifically, there was a lot to do about the Regional Express Net and that is not yet over. It has been a hot political issue for years and is likely to remain so for a long time. In addition to the expenditure linked to the project, there are also the direct consequences of these infrastructure works. I am thinking of creating additional tracks, bridges, tunnels, stations and stops, but also, of course, the necessary expropriation of the project. Unfortunately, these expropriations are one of the many reasons why the project is slowing down. My question is specific to my region. Are major infrastructure works planned on the connections between, on the one hand, Denderleeuw and Aalst, being part of line 50, Denderleeuw and Zottegem, being part of line 90 and, on the other hand, Denderleeuw and Geraardsbergen via Ninove, being also part of line 90? Indeed, these lines form part of the Regional Express Net, as the map shows, in particular the western and south-western parts. By far-reaching infrastructure works, I mean, of course, the creation of additional tracks, which might lead, among other things, to expropriation. There is, after all, some concern and uncertainty about this in my region. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u18	Infrabel informs me that no major infrastructure is currently planned for the three connections you mention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your reassuring words. Hopefully the story won't be prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u20	Mr Minister, the distribution key between SNCB and Infrabel has also been discussed and is likely to remain so, also in the context of the Regional Express Network. The 60/40 division between the Flemish and Walloon regions, for various reasons, is a reflection for several people, but I have been asking questions about the fact that the Brussels-Capital Region has a separate statute, in many cases and also in this case. The Brussels Region does not appear in the 60/40 distribution, but has a so-called separate pot. I have a few questions on this, Minister. Who decides what budget will be in that pot for the Brussels Region? What budgets have been involved in recent years and to what extent are the other regions involved in these negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u21	Mr De Spiegeleer, the multi-annual investment programme for railway infrastructure in the territory of the Brussels-Capital Region, as for the Flemish and Walloon Region, is approved by the Federal Council of Ministers on the proposal of Infrabel. If a Region decides to co-finance certain rail investments, a cooperation agreement is concluded with the Federal State under the special law. The regions are also invited to participate in the work of the investment cell, which gives an opinion on the multi-annual investment plans. They thus have the information on the projects planned in the other regions and the possibility of cooperating with trans-regional projects of common interest. According to Infrabel, an average of EUR 100 million per year has been invested in rail infrastructure on the territory of the Brussels-Capital Region in recent years. Half of that amount has been invested in the maintenance of the existing railway infrastructure and the other half is divided between the automatic braking system ETCS of 15%, the work for the GEN of 15% and some other projects, such as the capacity-building measures of the Brussels rail infrastructure and a training centre for railway technicians and other workers of Infrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u22	For me, Minister, your answer is a little vague, especially when it comes to the 60/40 distribution and the Brussels pot. I understand that both regions are involved in the negotiations of the investment cell. In the Flemish Region I hear different signals from various angles. It is no secret that most of the money is generated from Flanders in passenger transport but especially in freight transport. Hence the 60/40 distribution. The Brussels pot stays in the middle somewhere. That raises questions for me. When I see that the Regional Express Net has cost a huge amount of money, when I see what has been spent in the Brussels Region on the Schuman-Josafat tunnel, on the large number of additional stations and stops that have been added, on new stations such as Brussels-Schuman, Brussels-Luxembourg and so on, I keep asking questions about its distribution and honesty. In the hearing at the end of 2019, I hear political and economic refugee Lallemand van Infrabel say that there should be an extra tunnel in Brussels that would cost around EUR 2 billion to relieve the Brussels-South axis of Brussels-North. All this is not discussed in this 60/40 distribution, while the opening of the Flemish ports and the electrification of the three East-Flemish lines cannot be carried out, and I also hear here that the extension of the line to Hamont cannot be carried out. Mr Lallemand said on 27 July, wherever he attacked you, I did not like that in the middle of the recess that there was money for nothing of those projects. Three months later, he comes up with an estimate of two billion euros for an additional tunnel in the Brussels Region. I'm gonna keep asking questions about that. I'll keep following this with my eyes open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u23	Mr President, Minister, trains not only play a crucial role for long distances between cities. We are convinced that trains can also play an important role in intraurban mobility. In Brussels, for example, the train network is a real addition to that of metro, tram and bus. No one disputes that the various modes of transport can be better coordinated so that public transport can be more profitable, but that is not what my question is about. The SNCB defines areas within which you can travel freely with a ticket. Within such a zone you can travel for 2.40 euros. At present, however, the demarcation of the areas around the cities seems rather arbitrary. We are not clear on the basis of which criteria the demarcation is made. For example, Ekeren, Sint-Mariaburg and Hoboken-Polder are not included in the zone of Antwerp; Wijgmaal station is not part of the zone of Leuven, Muizen is not part of the zone of Mechelen. Halle, Denderleeuw and Knokke are part of a zone; Sint-Niklaas, Genk, Aarschot and Ninove are not part of a zone, while they count more stations on their territory. There are questions about this situation. Based on what criteria are stations classified in a zone? From when will stations be included in a zone? Do you think that SNCB can play a stronger role in intraurban mobility? If so, what do you think are the levers available to SNCB to achieve this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 1991 SNCB decided to create 22 tariff zones where stations were grouped into a tariffed point. At that time, these stations were determined on the basis of the homogeneous urban units to which they belonged and for which the passengers chose a station because of the train supply, because of the location of the stations or their accessibility. Since 1991 there has been only one change, in the present case the abolition of the Nivelles area, since Baulers' station was abolished. SNCB strengthens mobility around and within the cities by rolling out the range of S-trains in Brussels, Ghent, Antwerp, Liège and Charleroi. SNCB's train offer is linked to that of the other public transport companies. In addition, SNCB offers integrated tariff solutions, such as Jump, City Pass and MTB. These are multimodal products that offer a wide range of solutions to facilitate urban transport and access to the urban edge. Finally, the Key Card and SNCB's subscriptions also provide cheap alternatives to short-distance travel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u25	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. If we want to use the train as a player in this intraurban mobility, we have a key here, according to Green. You say it yourself, since 1991 little has actually changed in the classification of these zones. Apparently, people are looking at the access and location of these stations. We therefore call for this to be included in a subsequent discussion of a management agreement in which we use the classification of these zones as a key to intraurban traffic, and not just between cities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u26	Debates of the European Parliament 55002064C by Mr De Spiegeleer has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u27	Mr Minister, I would like to begin by stating, as a satisfied resident of Vilvoorde, that the Vilvoorde station is finally being renovated. Only the renovation is accompanied by a lot of traveler suffering. SNCB has since 16 December shifted or abolished many IC trains on the main line between Brussels and Antwerp. At the moment there are still some trains available, which are limited to the two still usable platforms. Other trains skip Vilvoorde completely because of the too short platform and too busy tracks. The consequences for commuters are great: teachers are no longer able to get to work in time; officials have already indicated that they need to change jobs due to mobility problems; other commuters are no longer able to reach childcare in time. In short, for many people it is very unclear whether SNCB does provide sufficient alternatives and they are in the hair every day. Minister, what alternatives are being considered to minimise the burden on commuters, which will last for two years? On what basis will it be decided which alternatives are still being offered? Will SNCB finally communicate in an open and transparent manner? That has not happened so far. Will the passengers affected be reimbursed by SNCB? Why is that, or why not? Will the needs of the commuters be taken into account when deleting them? If so, in what way? If not, why not? Was the impact of the works at the Vilvoorde station on mobility and on the local economy studied in advance? If so, how big is the impact? If not, why has that impact not been studied?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u28	Mr Hedebouw is not present. Consequently, his combined question lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u29	Dear colleague, SNCB informs me that the timetable at Vilvoorde station was updated on 15 December 2019. As a result of this adjustment, the IC-22 between Brussels-South and Antwerp-Central no longer stops in Vilvoorde. According to SNCB, Vilvoorde is also frequently connected to Brussels and Antwerp with the new timetable. There are four trains per hour to Brussels-North, Brussels-Central and Brussels-South, each with a similar journey time. In addition, there are two trains per hour towards Brussels-Schuman and two trains per hour to Merode. There is still a direct IC connection between Vilvoorde and Antwerp. In addition, it is possible to travel to Antwerp three times an hour with a change in Mechelen. With an additional travel time of one to five minutes between Vilvoorde and Antwerp, this connection with switching is very competitive with the direct IC connection. SNCB therefore considers the offer to Vilvoorde at the present stage of the works to be sufficient. If works are carried out, SNCB informs its passengers via an adapted timetable in its itinerary. Travellers will also find more information on their website under the heading "Failures and works in progress." The change in timetable is the result of a new phase of work at the Vilvoorde station. In the new phase, the platforms 1 and 2 will be renewed, making more than half of the platform length not available. Since 15 December, therefore, the IC connection must use the largely finished platform 3, towards Mechelen, and platform 4, towards Brussels, in order to avoid dangerous situations for passengers. Finally, SNCB considers the use of Buda as an alternative stop point for the Vilvoorde station to be undesirable for the IC-22, because the platforms are not sufficiently long and for some passengers it is insufficient in terms of parking facilities and the provision of regional public transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u30	Thank you, Minister, of course, for the answer, but I am disappointed. I can indeed find the current timetable on the SNCB website. The situation also depends on the station. Only, with that the daily commuter stays on his hunger. There is a problem for the many commuters for whom the Brussels-Antwerp line, especially from Vilvoorde station, is a daily must to get to work. The alternative, Buda Station, is easily 20 minutes by bike along a busy track, in industrial area without bike paths from the city centre. There isn't even provision for bluebikes. In short, that is not a safe alternative. Minister, I am disappointed. Consensual travellers are punished and there has clearly been no study of the impact. I did not hear you say anything about that at a time when people should actually be encouraged to use public transport! Only now they are discouraged and life is made difficult for them daily. I am very sorry to note that people who are willing to travel by public transport, people who are willing to contribute to solutions to our congestion problem and air pollution, are now the victims of the failure of SNCB to adapt its services to those affected. I'm very, very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u31	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Camp's 55002297C will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Thiébaut's 55002393C lapses because the author is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u32	Minister, the Key Card and Railease are tickets which can be used for commuting and which can reduce the use of cars for shorter distances and the use of commercial vehicles. They are therefore important elements in achieving the modal shift in commuting. How many travelers made use of the Key Card in 2019 and how many of the Railease system? What argument does SNCB argue for the planned price increase of the Key Card by 12,5 % and Railease by 25 %? Has SNCB investigated the possible negative effects of the planned price increase on modal shift in commuting?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u33	Dear colleague, SNCB is preparing for the opening up of the domestic rail sector in 2021. In this context, SNCB is reluctant to disclose commercial and business-sensitive data. Consequently, the data relating to the sale of its tickets are considered to be purely internal and strategic data. So they're not released. The two products to which you refer are not intended for commuting. Moreover, they do not give rise to a legal minimum repayment or funding through the 80/20 system. They're not registered either. The price increases foreseen for these two products from February 2020 are adjustments to improve the tariff logic of the products. The Key Card remains an economical product. Their price is calculated on the basis of a usage distance of 11.5 km while the average distance travelled by the holder is estimated at 18 km. Its use is permitted for distances up to 26 km. If this proves to be more advantageous, customers who travel very short distances can always opt for the standard banknote offered through all SNCB's sales channels. Railease's price increase is an adjustment by which SNCB adjusted its price to the price of two Rail Pass journeys. This is more coherent. The Railease remains an attractive, simple and multimodal solution in all circumstances, as other public transport and parking formulas can be attached to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u34	Minister, I am a little disappointed that we do not get a look at the number of users of these two formulas. Of course, it remains a fact that this is a drastic price increase. I understand that it may be a correction according to other modalities. I regret, however, that people are trying to warm people up for the use of two formulas and then introduce a drastic price increase, which can be quite discouraging. I would like to point out that this is not just about commuting. Many students also use it. For them too, this price increase is quite spicy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u35	We shall return to item 6 on our agenda, which is a question from Mrs Buyst. However, it is a very interesting question, which I had mistakenly skipped. Mrs Buyst, I apologise for that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u36	Mr President, that is not a problem at all. It happens. Minister, Infrabel is working hard to find solutions for many rail crossings. For this, she increasingly opts for the closure of a road. However, this choice often has an impact on local residents and local mobility. When closing railway crossings, we believe that Infrabel should talk and listen to local concerns. Cyclists who have to detour kilometres or footpaths that suddenly end: such decisions have an impact. In some municipalities, Infrabel works on underpasses or bridges for cyclists and pedestrians. This is also the case in Zottegem, where work was done in consultation with the municipal administration. However, neighbourhood residents were shocked when one of the reflections closed on 13 December 2019, while there was only one agreement in principle on the conclusion. There is currently no procedure for closing the municipal road. There is no concrete plan to cope with the mobility impact, let alone a roadmap to link up the different closures and their alternatives in terms of timing. Therefore, I get the following questions from local residents, which I would like to put to you. Firstly, what consultation took place on the conclusion of the negotiations in Zottegem? Secondly, when was the city of Zottegem informed by Infrabel of the closure of the consideration on its territory? What agreements were made between Infrabel and the city? Thirdly, what consultations did Infrabel have with local actors, such as local residents and the Cyclists Association? If there were consultations, what comments did they make? Fourthly, apart from the city and Infrabel, are other administrations, such as the Agency for Roads and Traffic and the province of East Flanders, involved in the layout? Fifthly, why was the road already closed, when no qualitative alternative has yet been achieved for road users? Sixth, when does Infrabel plan the closures of the other railway crossings? Finally, will the closure coincide with the opening of a quality alternative tailored to cyclists and pedestrians? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u37	Mr President, Mrs Buyst, Infrabel tells me that she has been talking to the city of Zottegem since 2015 about the idea of considering. At the end of 2019, an agreement in principle was reached on the consideration in the city of Zottegem. At the request of the municipality, Infrabel invests in strengthening the existing rail passage, so that it can still serve as an additional bicycle tunnel in the future. The municipality agreed that the route Nekouter could be closed. Infrabel conducted the necessary communication in consultation with the city of Zottegem and with the local residents, as stipulated in the agreement in principle. The province was also informed about the closure. She assessed the additional bicycle tunnel as a very positive given in the context of her Motorcycle Policy. According to Infrabel, there is indeed an alternative to road and bicycle traffic for the closed route Nekouter, namely the nearby road crossing in Eekhout. The replacement of the others by alternative infrastructure will be done in consultation with the municipality. In principle, the alternative infrastructure is first constructed before the crossing is effectively closed down. However, some consider having no important connecting function and are therefore closed without alternative after an info moment with the neighborhood residents. Where a qualitative alternative to pedestrians, cyclists and farmers is necessary, this will be provided. This is also reflected in the agreement in principle between the city of Zottegem and Infrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u38	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply, which I will pass on to local residents. Of course, the question remains as to whether Infrabel makes the most efficient choice with the choice to conclude consideration. In many other countries different choices are made, which makes them safer. By the same means, we can make traffic situations safer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u39	Mr President, Minister, the inhabitants of Ans learned last December that some 300 parking spaces, which were previously free of charge, will be paid as early as 27 January. This decision taken by SNCB displeases commuters, occasional users, the mayor of the municipality and the various citizen ASBLs such as commuters.be. A lambda driver must now pay EUR 1.79 per hour, on weekdays, for the use of this car park. A commuter pays EUR 1.19. On weekends, fares remain unchanged for occasional users, but train users are required to pay EUR 0.60 per hour. A subscription system also exists. It is necessary to count 35.30 euros per month, if you take the train, against 70 euros for a non-user. In all the cases mentioned above, this increase represents a huge cost. At the present time, where more than ever we need to revalue a softer mobility, such measures will convince many commuters to choose the comfort and convenience of their car rather than the train to go to work. Moreover, the financial aspect which largely justified the choice for many Belgians to go to work by train rather than by car is shaken by such measures. Minister, how do you justify such a change and such a cost to the user? Were you aware of this project? For what concrete reasons was the proposal adopted? Will other parking lots suffer the same fate? I am thinking, in particular, of the parking lot of the train station of Angleur frequented by many commuters. Do you find it appropriate to make SNCB car parks pay at a time when climate concerns are at the heart of all attentions? Do you intend to enter into a dialogue with SNCB in order to cancel this measure? Citizens are unhappy. It would be desirable to hear them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u40	Mr President, dear colleague, there are 560 stations in the country. There are 560 different situations and 560 dialogues – in any case, I hope – with the municipal authorities. The SNCB informs me that in Ans, the two car parks at the station are saturated. This saturation is due in particular to the use of these car parks by residents and customers of nearby shops, with the result that SNCB customers no longer find a place and, in doing so, turn away from the train because they are discouraged from finding a place. When SNCB sets up a paid car park, this is done in consultation with local authorities, in particular to jointly draw up a mobility plan and implement additional accompanying measures. SNCB also proposes to pool infrastructure, during periods when parking is less used by SNCB customers, i.e. evenings, Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays. This would make it possible, for example, to propose the free provision of parking places in railway stations, during various local activities, at a reduced rate for night tickets, for residents, etc. For more than two years, meetings have been held with the municipality to coordinate the implementation of access control. According to SNCB, making a parking fee has never led to a decrease in the number of passengers because the real lever that attracts new customers lies in the railway offer of the station and, for the user of the car coming to the train, the certainty of obtaining a place. The aim is to encourage the use of public transport on the home-to-house journey. The SNCB's parking strategy for almost ten years has demonstrated its effectiveness. It aims to improve the service to its customers by guaranteeing them a parking space. As far as the car park at Angleur station is concerned, no planning has been confirmed to date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u41	I'm going back to the problem of parking at Ans train station. A letter had been sent to you officially by the municipality in order to consider the postponement of the end of the free parking, to take the time to discuss with the SNCB and to find possible concerted solutions since to date, you state that there has been consultation with the municipality, whereas the latter says the opposite. I would like to know whether you have acted on the letter sent by the commune of Ans and whether, in the end, discussions will be held with the SNCB and the local authorities knowing that the parking lot is currently saturated and that another 400 places are being created. Ans wanted to buy the two existing car parks with the aim of fluidising mobility within his municipality. It is well known that if parking becomes fee-paying, some commuters will park on adjacent streets, which will create conflicts with residents who will not be able to park themselves. I don't know if you know Ans, but a commercial area is adjacent to Ans station.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u42	Indeed, I received the mail, but since it is part of the operation, I forwarded it to SNCB. She goes there and chats. The situation of each station is specific. The cost to the subscriber is just over one euro integrated into the subscription and reimbursed by the employer in 75% of cases, with the certainty that the commuter will have a place. If there have been any contacts, I will check if the contacts have taken place.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u43	Thank you for the verification that you are committed to doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u44	Early this year, some media reported that Timmy De Waele, a blind train traveller, was told from one day to the next that SNCB staff could no longer or would not accompany him from the station to the bus stop, about 50 meters away. One of the reasons would be that SNCB staff are not insured outside the station building. Mr President, can you explain the position of SNCB on this matter? Is that a statement? Is that the reason for refusing help? Is it true that SNCB employees are insured when they go outside the station on their own, but not when someone is walking next to them? What risks do SNCB's employees expose themselves to? Since one refers to insurance, are there any particular dangers to the mentoring of disabled people? Has SNCB already asked how much a separate insurance or an extension of the existing conditions would cost? Has the possibility of volunteering been considered? How does SNCB intend to ensure the safety and supervision of visually impaired and blind passengers in the future? Is the insurance adjusted so that guidance is possible? Or are other solutions being sought?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u45	Mr Roggeman already referred to a specific case in Ghent. There someone with a disability, who until then daily was accompanied from a bus stop near the station to the platform and back, was told that from 1 January he could no longer call on the staff of SNCB. According to him this is because SNCB staff would not be insured outside the station. For the man in question this is very annoying: he wants to take public transport, but if not impossible, he will be made very difficult, if he is not escorted from the bus stop to the platform. Is it true that SNCB employees have been given the directive to stop escorting people with disabilities outside the station's territory? If so, how come? Then why was that allowed in the past? In Ghent-Sint-Pieters the bus stops are located just next to the station, a few dozen meters from the train platform. With regard to the specific case of Ghent, are you prepared to consider whether the assistance of persons with disabilities can be resumed to and from those bus stops? Thirdly, both the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the relevant EU Directive require reasonable efforts to assist persons with disabilities in their movement. Do you not think that assistance by a SNCB employee to a person with a limitation to a bus stop situated a short distance from the station is within these reasonable efforts?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB informs me to provide assistance at the moment up to the exit of the station, as mentioned in the official communication of SNCB to its customers. There are no guidelines for staff to provide assistance outside the station. SNCB has not amended directives and no new directives have been issued to staff. SNCB has an insurance policy to cover its civil liability and that of its employees in the performance of their duties vis-à-vis third parties, including persons with reduced mobility. A SNCB employee can commit a professional error which could endanger his or her safety or that of customers. There are no special territorial limits in that insurance policy. According to SNCB, the insurance of its employees does not need to be adjusted. SNCB has the ambition to continuously improve services to its customers and explores how and under what conditions assistance can be improved and the safety of its customers with visual disabilities can be ensured. Finally, as regards the possible involvement of volunteers, SNCB informs me that it has had an initial informal contact with TrainTramBus on this subject in order to assess the experience of such a pilot project in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u47	Thank you for your explanation, Minister. It's still a strange story. You say that the insurance policy of the staff does not contain a territorial demarcation and that there would therefore be no need to change the conditions of insurance. Then the explanation for refusing to accompany disabled persons seems to be entirely at the executive level of the captains of SNCB itself, within the organisation. I would therefore recommend that these people be given a different assignment and that all necessary steps be taken to ensure that disabled passengers are also able to provide basic services and improve their access to stations and platforms as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u48	Minister, you say that there has been no change in the rules governing the provision of assistance to persons with disabilities. But someone with a disability in Ghent did indeed see the assistance he enjoyed so far, changed: he can no longer be taken from a bus stop to the platform, because the bus stop is not on the station's territory. You also say that SNCB is, of course, prepared to see how it can improve assistance to people with disabilities. I hope that she will be able to show some fairness and see how, in the specific case of Gent-Sint-Pieters, where the bus stop is just before the entrance to the station, she will provide assistance to the bus stop.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u49	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 5, by Mr Torbars: 55002458C by Mr De Spiegeleer is converted into a written question. Question No 55002475C by Mrs Rohonyi is postponed. Question No 55002482C by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u50	Mr. Chairman, Minister, the Board of Directors of SNCB has approved the transport plan that the railway operator will propose between December 2020 and December 2023. Unless I'm wrong, it happened in December 2019. During the SNCB roadshow, the Luxembourgers argued for the establishment of a Virton-Luxembourg direct line without breaking the load. A motion to that effect was unanimously adopted by the City of Virton and the Provincial Council of Luxembourg. It is therefore a strong demand for the land with a real potential for this line. Unfortunately, the 2020-2023 transport plan does not include this demand. However, SNCB was committed to making contact with the CFLs and said it was open to this direct line. This link was one of the priority axes of the SMOT (cross-border mobility scheme). Direct connection was an option. Currently, the concomitant works on the Belgian and Grand-Ducal sides make the Virton station almost unusable for a year. If the work is necessary, it is a waste for rail users who have been forced to take their car back. Once the work is completed, the challenge will be to get the users back. Attractiveness will be on time and non-rupture of charge. Linking Virton to Luxembourg-city in 45 minutes, this is the challenge of the living forces to allow the many workers in the Virton region to reach Luxembourg-city in a competitive time compared to the car. Minister, have you consulted the CFLs or are you going to do so? Do you know the CFL's position on this Virton-Luxembourg direct line? When is the end of work scheduled on this line?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u51	Mr President, dear colleague, the SNCB informs me that it meets the CFLs on a regular basis. On 29 July 2019, they decided unilaterally, due to problems related to their rolling stock and the need to increase their offer between the Grand Duchy and France, in particular towards Longwy, to abolish direct P trains (two in the morning and three in the evening) between Virton and Luxembourg via Rodange. This decision is also due to the fact that the average number of passengers carried on these trains was not sufficiently high (20 passengers on average per day and per train between Virton and Rodange). The passengers of Virton, Halanzy and Aubange, however, keep the possibility to reach Luxembourg by connecting to Athus in 5 minutes, which makes it possible to connect Virton to Luxembourg in 62 minutes, 4 minutes more than via direct P trains, which remains efficient. In recent years, numerous works have been carried out by Infrabel on line 165 with the aim of improving the reception of passengers (e.g. at Virton station) and of perpetuating the high-density freight line. The modernization of the Virton station continued until April 2019. During certain construction phases, the train service had to be adapted and replacement buses had sometimes been put into operation to compensate for the abolition of trains. In addition, from 13 May to 13 June 2019, line 167 between Arlon and Athus was cut off from all traffic due to the re-electrification of the line. Buses also replaced trains during this period. According to Infrabel, in 2020, there are no works like last year's that disrupted the new relationship created. On the other hand, in 2021, the work of the Athus Container Terminal will have an impact for six weekends. Similarly, the CFL's work on Rodange and the maintenance programme will also have certain consequences. Then, in 2022, we will remain in a conventional maintenance program without interruption.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u52	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear the reaction of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, i.e. an insufficient average for a journey with a load break, i.e. an additional 18 minutes. I do not hear you plead for this direct line, when the potential is there and today it is this break in the load and the many works that make this line unattractive. The living forces have sent a signal to SNCB and to all of us to implement this line. Unfortunately, I have not heard any reply from you in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u53	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u54	May I consider that the incident is closed, even if the minister's last intervention was made without a microphone? I therefore do not think that it has been acted upon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u55	Minister, the new transportation plan foresees an overall supply increase of 5% per step over the next three years. For the province of Luxembourg, it will mainly result in a higher weekly hourly frequency on the service of the line 42 Liège-Gouvy. That's very good news! Unfortunately, it seems that this new transport plan still does not restore the correspondence between lines 162 and 42 at Marloie station. Also, the seven direct trains between Luxembourg and Brussels that the transport plan 2017-2020 had deleted or modified - from Jemelle or Namur - due to work are not yet returned to service. Minister, what is your status with the 2014-2017 transportation offer? Do you confirm to me that the mentioned trains will not be put back into circulation? What specific time frame do you envisage for reprogramming each of them?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u56	Mrs Thibaut, I congratulate you on the conciseness of your statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u57	Mrs Thibaut, the Board of Directors of SNCB - with which the Regions are associated - has decided to increase its transport offer by 5% as part of its transport plan December 2020-2023 in order to respond to the sharp increase in the number of passengers observed in recent years and to maintain this rate of growth. This is a phased and targeted increase in supply, which takes into account customers as well as the availability and capacity of infrastructure, equipment and personnel. SNCB aims to offer a safe, sustainable and quality intermodal mobility solution. The targeted increase in supply of more than 5% over the 2017-2020 period, which was aimed in particular at encouraging customers to travel more during off-peak hours and weekends, has supported annual passenger growth of 3.5-4% since 2017. The company wants to continue this momentum and therefore continues to increase its supply step by step - in December 2020, 2021, 2022 - depending, among other things, on the availability of additional railway infrastructure and the completion of work on several lines, including 162. In this way, SNCB will be able to offer better or new IC relationships, increase sub-urban supply and improve service around a few medium-sized cities. The number of trains operating early in the morning and late in the evening is also increasing in and around several cities. This method is called "time amplitude increase". Customers also expect an increase in frequency in the first place. The adaptation of the train offer follows a broad consultation of stakeholders, including the Advisory Committee for Railway Travellers, Regions, Provinces, Cities and Municipalities and regional transport partners, with a view to coordinating connections with buses, trams and metros. This consultation issued a series of proposals which were assessed on the basis of customer potential and also in terms of technical and financial reliability. With regard to your specific question about certain InterCity (IC) trains, SNCB informs me that the process is not yet finalized because it still needs information from Infrabel as to the timing and completion of the work. Indeed, the correspondence leading to Marloie is linked to work. This is therefore not a definitive situation. Following approval by the Board of Directors, this draft transport plan will be submitted to the Mobility and Transport FPS. SNCB will then order the paths from the infrastructure manager, Infrabel, in early April 2020. It is at the end of this process that SNCB will inform passengers and all interested parties in detail about this new transportation plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u58	Minister, I take note, not explicitly, of the fact that the return of these seven direct IC trains is not yet foreseen in the next transport plan and that the users will still have to be patient about this work, which lasted but was necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u59	Minister, on average, more than 82 trains per day were discontinued in the first 11 months of 2019. This is more than 10% higher than what was recorded in 2018. One of the reasons for this is related to malicious acts. Cable flights often cause delays or train deletions. It is also not uncommon for delays to be caused by people walking the tracks. In addition, you will probably find out, trains are often the prey of the taggers. It is indeed not uncommon to see fully customised, colourful trains. Even if the artistic quality of these drawings sometimes makes us admire them, SNCB cannot afford to leave them as they are for safety reasons, especially if the graffiti cover the driver's windows or the windows of the wagons. In 2018, it was therefore no less than 138 000 m2 of surface area of trains that were cleaned, which represents a cost of 4.2 million euros for SNCB. We know that various monitoring mechanisms have been put in place to avoid this kind of situation, but it must be noted that they are not effective enough. Minister, how do you explain that so many trains were removed in 2019? Is this related to an increase in crime around the tracks? What monitoring and security mechanisms are in place? Have they proven their effectiveness? Have any studies been carried out in this regard? If so, what are the results? Is it planned to invest in new monitoring systems in the near future with a view to securing the edge of the tracks more safely? If so, can we have an idea of the amount of this investment? Can we also know in which regions these new devices will be installed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u60	Dear colleague, Infrabel's figures on the evolution of the number of trains deleted in 2019 compared to 2018 and by main cause will be given to you in writing. With regard to the surveillance and safety measures put in place, Infrabel informs me that measures against cable theft and trespassing are of several kinds: preventive measures, such as the replacement of copper cables with aluminium where technically possible or the placement of devices in cable channels to slow down the removal of cables, but also detection measures, such as the placement of permanent or temporary cameras, and enforcement measures, such as police actions on the ground to arrest thieves. With regard to trespassing, other measures have been put in place, such as the fitting of certain tunnels with intrusion-detection cameras, the placement of dissuasive blue lamps, anti-stressing carpets and fences, and awareness campaigns tailored to the target audience following the Railspect study. These measures have improved safety and punctuality by reducing the number of trespassing cases in the hotspots in which they have been implemented. For example, thanks to the cameras installed in Liège in the tunnel, there are three times less trespassing attempts according to Infrabel. In general, in order to combat trespassing and behaviour endangering the safety of railway operations, Infrabel's officers impose administrative fines on offenders for whom a report has been drawn up for an offence that took place on an Infrabel property, in accordance with the new police law. According to Infrabel, new detection devices are being studied, such as the placement of trackers on cables, the use of infrared red scans against network intrusions and the use of drones. SNCB, for its part, uses DISC (Dynamic Intrusion System Camera) cameras, which can be moved according to the hotspots for which it is responsible. It makes every effort to optimize the devices by connecting them with intrusion detection systems. Similarly, it monitors technical and technological developments in the security market and the good practices of its foreign colleagues through participation in international forums.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answer. I do hear that several devices are under consideration. However, I would have liked to know the results because we hear a lot about studies but few results. We will pay attention to the results of these studies on these security enhancement devices.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u62	Mr Minister, the Law of 5 May 2017 concerned aid for combined and distributed transport for the period 2017-2020 and extended the aid for combined transport for, also, the period 2017-2020. The law provided for subsidy mechanisms for rail freight transport. That system was valid for four years and ends this year. I would have liked to have heard from you how you evaluate these support mechanisms and what volume of goods traffic it supports. What is the estimated volume that would end up in road transport without this support? Are you in favour of extending these support mechanisms for a new period of four years or possibly for a longer period? Since it concerns state aid, approval by the European authorities is, of course, necessary. Have there been any contacts in this respect due to the FPS Mobility or from your cabinet with a view to the possible approval of an extension of these support mechanisms? What have these discussions led to? What amounts have been spent under these systems since 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, my administration informs me that a consultant on behalf of the FPS Mobility and Transport is currently evaluating the aid measure for combined and distributed transport. In addition to the evolution of the goods transported, this study will also include an estimate of the number of lorries avoided by the aid scheme. The study will also examine the volume of freight traffic supported for the distributed transport. Individual volumes by Region are not available. The aim of this study is also to assess the need for further support for combined and distributed transport and, if so, to make recommendations in which form future support for rail freight transport would best be provided. If the study indicates that further aid is appropriate, a new aid measure will be developed and submitted to the government. Following agreement, it will be submitted to the European Commission with the aim of starting new aid measures from 1 January 2021 in order to ensure continuity of aid to the railway sector. In 2017 and 2018, 4.060.000 and 9.473.000 euros were paid out to combined and distributed transport respectively. In 2019, without a fourth trimester, it was 3,045,000 euros and 7,105,400 euros. No subsidy amount per region is available.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for the explanations and the figures. I understand there's a study going on. When is the conclusion of that study expected? There is now a consultation under way which should form the basis of an assessment of the possibility of continuation. A new system must then be set up. Then there will be the government's approval and the European Commission's approval. There is therefore still a long way to go within the next ten months, while very important support measures for rail freight transport are involved. Without this, a major additional goods traffic will be on our roads. This is a crucial measure for modal shift. It's important to follow up on this. Do you have any idea of the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u65	I do not have an end date for the study, but I hope to receive it in May or June. Me or the next minister. We have to be optimistic.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u66	Mrs Dewulf, your question will be answered by Minister Bellot, responsible for Belgocontrol.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u67	Minister, according to a number of press reports, the scanners for the hold baggage of the Antwerp-Deurne and Ostend-Brugge airports would end regularly. Temporary use is made of lap agents, such as non-representative samples. Some passenger gates are also defective. In addition, it appears that many hand scanners for passenger control are not functioning properly. Of course, all these elements have an impact on safety in those airports. Mr. Secretary, are you aware of this situation? What measures have you already taken? Will the defective equipment be renewed or repaired? If so, when? How is the safety of passengers and staff currently guaranteed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u68	My dear colleague, the DGLV security inspectors regularly carry out inspections at these airports. As part of their inspections, the effectiveness of the security equipment shall be verified. If the effectiveness of the equipment does not meet the requirements of the Belgian and European regulations, the inspectors shall draw up a report. For security reasons, that report is restricted in terms of access. Depending on the seriousness of the deficiencies detected, inspectors may request that the machinery be discontinued. In all cases, the airport is invited to take the necessary measures to remedy the deficiencies. Airports have a choice of different means to remedy the deficiency. The airport concerned shall draw up a plan for the replacement of the equipment that it fails to use. The DGLV inspectors shall verify that the plan is carried out by the airport. According to point 4.1.1.5 of the Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/1998 of 5 November 2015 laying down detailed measures for the implementation of the common basic standards on aviation security, portable metal detectors should only be used as an additional means of screening. These do not replace the search and the corresponding requirements. Their malfunction is therefore not a threat to the safety of passengers, their luggage and staff. Moreover, the safety of passengers is always guaranteed as safety personnel at airports are trained in different methods of controlling passengers and their baggage. When the equipment is no longer working, the security guard always has an alternative way of screening
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u69	Minister, this must be followed up properly. If the scanners aren't working, that problem needs to be solved as soon as possible. Can an external company possibly be used for safety purposes? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u70	That is a possibility, but that is not the case now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u71	Mr President, Minister, recently we heard in the press that SNCB wants to recruit 1,800 new staff, including many new train drivers and supervisors, station and substation heads. Are the planned recruitments new recruitments or are they mainly replacements? Or is that how the railway company anticipates a natural outflow of the workforce? At present, a large number of 50-plussers work at SNCB. Under what statute are the new staff recruited? Is it purely statutory recruitment or is the new staff also recruited on a contractual basis?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u72	Minister, in France, the railway company SNCF has been recruiting only contractual staff since 1 January 2020. With us, almost all the staff of SNCB, Infrabel and HR Rail have a civil servant's statute. Mrs Sophie Dutordoir stated at the end of last year at a hearing in our committee that we are also approaching a turning point for the contractual recruitment of new staff. This is due to the age pyramid: a small 20% of SNCB's staff are older than 55% today and are pouring out in the coming years. At Infrabel, the share of 55-plussers is even higher, with one in eight employees. There is, therefore, an ageing wave, which is coming out soon. Can you confirm the numbers? How does the outflow relate to the total workforce at the moment? What does that mean for the current recruitment policy? During your term of office as a guardian minister, have any steps been taken to enable a contractual recruitment of staff, as also mentioned in the 2017 Summer Agreement? Rail will be liberalised in a maximum of 15 years. Do you share the view that, in view of the future competitiveness of the companies in question, the changeover should be made? In addition, all our neighbouring countries will be working with contractual staff. Are you prepared to have a change to contractual work examined?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u73	Mr President, HR Rail informs me that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 67 of the Law of 23 July 1926 on SNCB and the staff of the Belgian Railways, as subsequently amended, the staff of the Belgian Railways are recruited to or by decision of the Management Board of HR Rail and employed under the Staff Regulations and Staff Regulations. Furthermore, Article 67 provides that HR Rail may recruit and employ staff with a contract of employment subject to the law of 3 July 1978 on contracts of employment, with a view to a number of specific objectives. The recruitments by HR Rail are in accordance with the requirements of those legal provisions. As provided for in the above legislation, contractual recruitment is possible and takes place, inter alia, for the function of engineer, technician, etc. There can therefore be no infringement of statutory recruitment. As far as operational functions are concerned, SNCB aims at a one-on-one replacement. Of course, the need for certain new profiles and customer expectations is also taken into account, but also technologies that are constantly evolving. The impact of the planned recruitments on the total mass of wages within SNCB will be limited, given also the large outflow of staff. As regards the subsidiary, a number of activities were indeed internalised. This was decided after performance analyses and optimisation plans were carried out. The staff responsible for carrying out the tasks assumed have been given the opportunity to continue carrying out those tasks within a new entity if they so wished. The priority of the Belgian Railways is safe and punctual train traffic for passengers. Within the recruitment policy, it is essential to recruit sufficiently competent, performant and committed staff. The number of staff required to be recruited in the coming years depends on several factors: outflow, transport plan, technological evolution, budgets, etc. The natural outflow has been applicable within the Belgian Railways for a number of years and has not affected the choice of contractual or statutory employment. My answers to your question about the number of statutory posts currently employed by SNCB, Infrabel and HR Rail and about the outflow of statutory officials in the coming years from the total workforce will be provided to you in table form.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u74	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u75	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. Your answer is particularly correct. After all, the text you are probably provided by HR Rail only provides a summary of the regulations that exist today. I am therefore a little disappointed that the specific questions on the opportunity for the future are not being addressed. You are, of course, Minister in current affairs, which restricts your freedom of movement in this area, but if we see that the 2017 Summer Agreement, which dealt with the contractualisation of recruitment in the government, can also be implemented here, you will actually have the freedom of movement to take administrative steps forward here as well. I am sorry that we were not allowed to pick up signals in this direction in your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u76	Mr Minister, in 2015, the States General for Road Safety launched an action plan with 15 concrete measures to promote road safety. One of these measures was the creation of an accident analysis institute. Many traffic experts have for years pointed to the need for in-depth investigation into the causes of road accidents. Better knowledge of these causes and the circumstances in which accidents occur can contribute to a better policy. When setting up such an institute, sufficient attention must of course be paid to the protection of the privacy of the persons whose data are being investigated and processed. Nor would the College of Attorneys-General agree that third parties should draw conclusions from their findings in the event of serious accidents. What is the state of play with regard to the establishment of an accident analysis institute? Are you still behind that? How will privacy concerns be met? Is a separate institute required or can this analysis be assigned to the Road Safety Institute Vias? Another measure that can provide insight into the cause of accidents is the obligation to equip new vehicles with a black box. The European Commission would have drawn on this dossier. What's the status of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u77	Mr Raskin, the path to setting up an accident analysis institute was abandoned. The need for further accident investigations, such as on-the-spot investigations, interviews with data subjects and blood collection with drivers on unclosed judicial files is indeed contrary to the secrecy of the investigation. Discussions with the College of Attorneys-General therefore raised numerous concerns. Moreover, the points on which an agreement could be reached, namely access to closed court cases and permissions of the local magistrate, already correspond to the practice developed by Vias in the context of accident investigations already carried out or ongoing. The creation of an accident analysis institute would therefore not bring any real added value under these circumstances. Although this requires a great deal of consultation with the judicial authorities, Vias still succeeds today in carrying out accident studies even in the absence of such an institute. For example, in recent years, Vias has conducted in-depth investigations into road accidents, in particular truck accidents and accident reconstructions with drones and 360° cameras. This year, the in-depth investigation will be conducted into road accidents involving electric bicycles and speed pedals. With regard to the protection of personal data, all guarantees are checked by the magistrate who has access to the judicial files. Onboard computer systems such as the black box can be an important source of data for in-depth studies. A black box or an event data recorder shall be installed in new vehicles from 2022 onwards. This device may provide crucial anonymised information for the analysis of fatal road accidents without identifying the owner or holder of the vehicle. Apart from that, there is currently a pilot project in our country in which recurrent speed offenders can be sentenced to a black box in which continuous speed measurement is accompanied by an intensive individual follow-up of this person by Vias for one year. If this pilot project proves successful after completion, we will consider how we can possibly accelerate the integration of the black box as part of the road safety policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u78	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. I conclude, unless I am mistaken, that the objections raised by the College of Attorneys General on the issue of privacy mean that the idea of an accident analysis institute, as proposed at the time by the State General, has been removed and that we continue with Vias as an expert, that the investigation has already been carried out in the past and will therefore remain active in the future. So the idea of the States General has passed, if I understand you correctly. On the black box, I hear you say that there's a pilot project running. It may be useful to know the results of this in order to work out a timing to implement it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u79	Minister, I will take you back to the States General for Road Safety. An action plan was the result of that meeting. One of the measures was intended to partially or fully charge the perpetrators instead of society with the cost of alternative penalties such as traffic courses. The perpetrators must bear the responsibility for their misconduct. Do you agree that the cost of alternative penalties should be borne by the offenders themselves? At the moment, society bears the cost of alternative punishments. Do you have any figures on that? What amount has been involved in the last three years, if possible on an annual basis? Are you working on legislation to make it possible for the offenders to charge the cost? If so, when could such a thing enter into force? Can you tell me the chalk lines of such an arrangement? Will the full cost be borne by the offenders or only partially? And does that apply to all alternative punishments, or just a few?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, it seems logical to me that the unsub himself bears the cost of the alternative measures. Moreover, this practice is recommended because it makes the offender aware of the seriousness of the crime and promotes the chances of changing his behaviour. However, I believe that certain exceptions should be possible where the costs of alternative measures are such that no of the offender would have recourse to them if he had to bear them in full. In such cases, a contribution from the Communities may be justified. Where a new alternative sanction is tested in a pilot project, it may also be necessary to provide funding to find volunteers. For example, the black boxes currently used as part of a pilot project for recidivists cost more than 1,000 euros. That amount cannot compete with most traditional fines and without a push on the part of the government such a study could not be carried out. Of course, Community funding raises questions, but in some cases it can benefit society. This is the case when the alternative measure is more effective than the traditional fine to bring about a change in behaviour, but it seems to me that the offender must always make a financial contribution himself. I do not have the sums allocated by the Justice Department, which is responsible for financing the alternative measures, to the various organisations. I invite you to consult the Minister of Justice on this. I only have the figures for the Driver Improvement programmes given by Vias Institute, but there are also other bodies active in this area. The costs of other alternative penalties, such as a compulsory visit to a rehabilitation centre and community service are not included. My administration is currently preparing a draft royal decree which should make it possible to propose alternative training instead of immediate collection for certain offences, such as speeding offences. The costs of training would be fully borne by the offender. In order to ensure that that amount is proportionate to the amount of immediate recovery for the offence, the proposed training will be of short duration. This arrangement still needs to be discussed with the partners of Justice and the Regions. The government's still in business. It is therefore impossible to say when the alternative training system can be introduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u81	In particular, Minister, I remember that you agree with the principle that a perpetrator should pay. I also agree with you that a number of exceptions will have to be made. You have given a number of examples of this. Today, we are being daily yesterday, there was the fatal accident of a hit-and-run, with the terrible suffering that happens to people, if one of the loved ones is involved in a road accident. The States-General of 2015 has been a long time ago. The government is effective in ongoing cases. Nevertheless, with a view to the future, we must, who knows what will happen next, address the problem of road safety and address the ambitions that have once been written down by experts and citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u82	Minister, at a time when sustainable alternatives to road freight transport must be found, Infrabel is simply going to break down the rail network of the Brussels port and the Audi plant at Vorst, without alternative. Rail freight causes eight times less air pollution than road transport and consumes six times less energy. Rail transport is also essential to develop the port zone. Today, 20 freight trains run every day to the Audi factory. They can be loaded and unloaded there. That may be the most ecologically responsible way of getting heavy parts into the factory. The Audi plant, where electric cars are being built, should now opt for supplies via lorries, all of which should be driven through the Brussels ring. An impact study shows that if the port's rail connection continues to exist, 220 lorries per week could be kept out of Brussels traffic in the short term. In the longer term, that can become much more. Also the major freight line 26A is broken up from May, without a viable alternative after the summer. According to the impact study, this deletion has even more serious consequences. There would be 3,300 additional lorries in Brussels traffic every week, resulting in traffic pollution, economic damage and air pollution. That is rather cynical, at a time when a low-emission zone is being implemented. The port, the Brussels Region and Lineas have subpoenaed Infrabel. Infrabel, according to European legislation, is obliged to provide each Belgian port with a rail link. Is it true, Minister, that Infrabel intends to remove the only rail link, the line 26A, with the port of Brussels? If so, what steps have already been taken? At what time will that happen? Will Audi Brussels and other companies still be able to be supplied by train from the summer of 2020? Will you, as Minister for Mobility, intervene in this dossier so that the interests of citizens can be defended, the railway will be kept open and an alternative to freight transport will also be offered in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u83	Mr President, Minister, the areas of Schaerbeek-Vorming must be released by national railway companies by the end of 2020 according to a Royal Decree of December 2004. At that time, the Railway Infrastructure Fund will have to sell these sites. Discussions would have taken place with the Brussels Region, which has major plans for the site. The Brussels Region and the port of Brussels have recently subpoenaed Infrabel because it would break down the only route to the Brussels port. Minister, I would have liked to hear from you the following. What infrastructure of Schaerbeek-Vorming is being broken down and at what time? Are there any alternative rail links available for the opening of the Brussels port? How do you explain that the construction of a permanent alternative link after 16 years is still incomplete, although it has been established since 2004 that Infrabel has to stop its activities there? What is the conclusion of the discussions so far between the Railway Infrastructure Fund and the Brussels Region? In the meantime, in addition to the Brussels regional government, have there been other potential buyers? Which buyers have reported in, if any? Is there any progress in this? Can you confirm that a sale price of EUR 40 million was reported in this respect and that, given the particular size and unique location of the site, this price would be a rather low selling price? Has an estimate been made of the market value of the sites? How much does that estimate amount to? Finally, how do you intend to reconcile the profitability of the areas of the FSI in Schaerbeek-vorming with the opening up of the Brussels port in your capacity as guardian minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u84	Mr President, Minister, as my colleague Mrs Vindevoghel pointed out, the port of Brussels plays an important role in unravelling the Brussels mobility button and developing the logistics of the future. In order to realise its potential as a logistics centre of the future, intermodality with other sustainable means of transport is essential, especially of course with rail. The European RTE-T Regulation No. 1315/2013 also states in Article 15 that inland ports must be connected to road and rail infrastructure. In the past, the extensive rail connection, including on the Thurn & Taxis site, was greatly reduced on the left bank, which we believe was a historical error. It is astonishing to learn that Infrabel would now also remove the only remaining rail link on the right bank. As Mr Roggeman explained to you, according to the Royal Decree of 30 December 2004, Infrabel may occupy the site of Schaerbeek-vorming until 31 December 2020. It is unacceptable that the port of Brussels should lose its last rail link. The port therefore subpoenaed Infrabel before the Court of First Instance on 12 October, assisted by the Region, as Mr Roggeman has already told you. As a ruling before the end of 2020 is uncertain, the port started a procedure in summary proceedings on 14 March 2019 to prevent Infrabel from removing the rail link in the meantime. The judgment in the interim proceedings would be published shortly. I have a number of additional questions to add to the questions put by Mr Vindevoghel and Mr Roggeman. What sanctions does Belgium risk by violating the European RTE-T Regulation? What sanctions does Infrabel risk by violating the Royal Decree, which expressly states that line 26A must be moved by 31 December 2020 and not removed? How is it possible that no appropriate measures have been taken in 16 years to safeguard this rail link? What actions have you taken in recent months in connection with this dossier? And what else do you plan to do? Finally, could you, as a temporary solution, postpone the deadline of 31 December 2020 from the Royal Decree?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to the Royal Decree of 30 December 2004, the ownership of a site of 40 hectares on the Schaerbeek-Vorming site was transferred to the Railway Infrastructure Fund (FSI). Infrabel is authorised to occupy the site until 31 December 2020 and is obliged to fully release the site by that date at the latest and therefore to break up all the railway infrastructures that have been imposed on it. This is a legal obligation which Infrabel cannot avoid. Otherwise, it will have to pay a fine of approximately EUR 7 million per year. There are two separate railway infrastructures in this area, each of which has a different function and between which a clear distinction must be made. On the one hand, there is line 26A, which is intended for freight through the site Schaarbeek-Vorming and is used, among other things, by the company Audi. On the other hand, there is a connecting line from the port of Brussels. As regards freight traffic on line 26A, according to Infrabel, there is an alternative route to ensure continuity of freight traffic via the Schaarbeek-Vorming site. For this, a tunnel must be equipped and connected to the rail network. In order to be able to carry out those works, rail traffic should be interrupted for three months in the summer of 2020, in particular from 1 June to 31 August. Line 26A will therefore be decommissioned in June 2020. The movement of goods via the site, in particular to and from the company Audi, will be resumed from 1 September 2020. During the three months of work Audi will not be accessible by train via Schaarbeek-Vorming. However, Infrabel studies alternative routes for Audi, as it always does for its customers when infrastructure works require line interruptions. Infrabel informs me that he has no knowledge of the impact study mentioned above, which found that the short-term interruption would lead to 220 additional trucks and 3,300 additional lorries on Brussels roads in the long term. Infrabel also wishes to clarify that there are not daily but weekly up to 20 freight trains on this rail link on behalf of the company Audi. With regard to the local loop, the port of Brussels has initiated a short-term procedure at the Court of First Instance in Brussels to ensure that the connection is maintained. Since the decision to be taken involves other actors than Infrabel, Infrabel has asked that all interested parties be present. Infrabel states that there is no rail link to the port other than the current one and that it has always sought the most satisfactory solution for all interested parties. Under the terms of the Royal Decree, Infrabel was authorised to negotiate with the FSI a reasonable extension of the deadline for the destruction of infrastructure after the occupation period. Infrabel negotiated with the FSI and obtained an extension of the deadline until 30 June 2021. The extension of the deadline allows the local loop to remain in service until 30 December 2020 and the infrastructure to be maintained until 31 March 2021, so that there is additional time to reach a negotiated solution or to decide on the substance of the case. On 20 December 2019, the Brussels Court of First Instance rejected the request for interim measures from the port because the agreements between the FSI and Infrabel were sufficient for the provisional settlement of the parties' situation. The court also declared that it had no jurisdiction to hear the claim of the port of Brussels, except where it wished to rely on an inheritance service. The court decided that there was no reason to examine neither the criticisms of the legality of the breach of the contested link nor the legality of the Royal Decree of 30 December 2004.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u86	The court ruled that all the complaints of the port were inadmissible, with the exception of whether it had an inheritance service. It is a judgment on the substance of the case against which the port of Brussels and the Brussels Region may appeal within the month following notification of the judgment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u87	Madam President, Minister, I am outraged at the fact that the people of Audi, whom we had contact with yesterday, do not yet know what will happen in the coming months. It is a punishment that these people do not even know that there will be an interruption of transport for a whole period of time. That's unbelievable. I would like to stress once again that we believe that rail freight should be expanded rather than phased out. There will soon be a rail freight link from Valencia to the European Centre for Fruit and Vegetables in Brussels, but this may not be possible because it will not be there. For the PVDA Group, breaking up the track in this area is an attack on the public interest for the benefit of landowners. It is an absurd situation, in which the Railway Infrastructure Fund, which is entirely in the hands of the public authorities, and the public authority which will eventually be able to develop the site, are working against each other rather than seeking a solution. We therefore call for better cooperation between all these parties and for the general interest of Brusselsers to prevail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u88	Minister, this is still a curious story. Different authorities enter into conflict and end up in a legal snake pit by subpoenas and judgments in various directions. It remains strong, as this could be avoided. The objectives of the project in this area were already completed in 2004. For 16 years, therefore, the opportunity arose to seek an appropriate solution with all the various parties involved, seeking a mutually acceptable agreement between the various partners. I regret that time was not used. For the sake of clarity, that is not a reproach to you, Minister. It is regrettable, however, that we have now come to a situation of many hints but few solutions. In any case, I hope that the work planned for this summer as an alternative to line 26A will proceed smoothly, so that the interruption of that connection does not take longer than the three months foreseen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to replicate in the chair. Minister, I would like to join the previous speakers in saying that this is a very important dossier for the port of Brussels. We must ensure that our sustainable transport modes are used more rather than less. We therefore hope that you, as Minister for Mobility, will continue to pay due attention to this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u90	I would like to provide further information. It is important to know why an agreement was reached in 2003. It was to build the national stadium on the grounds. It took some time. Indeed, it was not only about the Heysel C parking lot. When things were done, negotiations were held for the sale by the Railway Infrastructure Fund (FIF in French and FSI in Dutch). Offers have been made. But Brussels wanted to buy 18 hectares out of the 40. And those 18 hectares had the 22 remaining ones. In doing so, the FIF decided not to sell these 18 hectares, based on the principle that it wanted to sell everything at once. It is also important to know that it is the FIF, which depends on the Minister of Finance, who has the hand – I am not the one who has it – and is obliged, as a public authority, to make a public sale or to go through a competition of the sale. We have to find a solution. There is a technical solution for connecting the port of Brussels. It's all about knowing who's gonna pay for this connection. A negotiation was under way. But during this negotiation, the Port of Brussels took legal action which completely blocked the said negotiation. And the court ruled that there was no obligation. The European regulation does not require – he says – in the short term, but it has not dealt with the substance. As is the case with any case, it is not the court, it is not the judge who will find a solution. As far as I'm concerned, I'm open to discussion. But it is the FIF, which is the responsibility of the Finances, which must summon all the parties. I am here to say that the rails require a width of 1,413 metres, that a foundation is needed, that the trains must be able to pass. My role stops there! I met with the various actors to whom I indicated that we had to meet to discuss the problem. It is important to know whether the Brussels Region wishes to buy the 40 hectares or not, or who buys them. I think the Brussels Region cannot leave such a whole close to the city centre without doing anything. So you have to have a vision, get around the table and find a solution. I am available to bring the four actors together, but the initiative must come from the FIF, which is the owner-seller. I wanted to review the royal decree, but it's up to Finance. We'll get around the table and chat with Brussels, the FIF and Infrabel to find a solution because it's strategic for the Brussels Region. That's the information I wanted to share with you so that you would know what's going on.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u91	Thank you, Minister, for the additional information. Mrs Vindevoghel, Mr Roggeman, would you like to comment on this? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u92	Debates of the European Parliament 55002620C by Mrs Depraetere will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u93	Minister, at the beginning of this afternoon there was a delegation of outraged Kempenaars. The connection Geraardsbergen-Ostend is actually a pars pro toto between Denderstreek and coast. While billions are spent, as I said, for the development of the GEN in order to link the Brussels region more closely with the Dender region, the East Indian still remains deaf to the Dender region, a region which still has around 250 000 inhabitants. That depends on the numbers, whether one counts 'the village' Dendermonde or not. All madness on a stick, if you want to trace from the Dender region to Ghent or the tourist Bruges and the coast, you always need at least one or even two transfers. Travel times of for example Ninove or Haartert to Ostend of two hours, single trip, are more rule than exception. It is therefore not illogical that people opt for the car faster. After all, we are talking about a distance of between 80 and 100 kilometres. It's a hallucinating reality. It is even more striking that the infrastructure, namely the connection in Denderleeuw, is available. So it's just a matter of will, not extra expenses or connections or expropriation or something like that. Mr Minister, has there been any contact with local, provincial or Flemish authorities to respond to this question? That question doesn't just come from me personally, just to be clear. If so, when? What was the result of these possible conversations and contacts? On a regular basis, for example one train per hour between Geraardsbergen and Ostend with stops in Ninove, Denderleeuw, Ghent and Bruges? Of course, that question also applies in the opposite direction. I can add something to that: would there be any possibility of increasing frequencies during school holidays and during the tourist season?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u94	Dear colleague, the transport plan 2020-2023 aims to provide a sustainable, qualitative and intermodal multi-mobility solution. The targeted expansion of the offer by more than 5% in the period 2017-2020 mainly focused on attracting customers during off-peak hours and on weekends. The expansion contributed to annual passenger growth from 3.5 % to 4 % since 2017 and this every year. SNCB wants to move forward on that momentum and step up the supply, each time in December 2020, 2021 and 2022, taking into account, inter alia, the availability of additional infrastructure and rolling stock. The proposed timetable adjustment will follow an extensive consultation with stakeholders, including the Train Travellers Advisory Committee, the Regions, the Mayors, provinces, cities and municipalities and regional transport partners. This consultation resulted in a whole series of proposals, which were assessed in addition to customer potential for their technical and financial feasibility. In December 2019, the Transport Plan 2020-2023 was approved by the Management Board. In January 2020 this was delivered to the FPS Mobility. In early April 2020, SNCB will order the lanes from Infrastructure Manager Infrabel, after which they will be examined in detail for their technical feasibility. At the end of this process, SNCB will inform passengers and all interested parties in detail about the new transport plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u95	Minister, your answer was a little vague. You referred to the transport plan 2020-2023. I have read that too, and it does not respond to the concerns of my region. So my question is more about the future. That kind of disappoints me. The question I am asking now is not from me personally and from my party alone. This has already been included in several railway strategies of the Flemish government. So it's not about inventing the hot water, but rather about reinventing the hot water. We regret that. We will certainly come back to this. I also assume that we will do so beyond the party boundaries in order to optimise the opening from the Dender region and South-East Flanders towards our provincial capital and the Flemish Coast.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u96	Minister, at the end of December 2019 the Dutch government decided to reduce the maximum speed on Dutch motorways by day between 6 a.m. and 7 p.m. to 100 km/h. At night, the current maximum speed of 120 or 130 km/h is maintained depending on the location. It is one of the urgent measures to reduce nitrogen emissions. Indeed, when cars slow down, they emit less harmful substances. Several traffic experts, including in our country, are enthusiastic about the measure. A lower speed limit not only reduces CO2 emissions, reduces air pollution and accidents, but also reduces noise pollution and facilitates flow. Are you aware of studies that indicate that reducing the maximum speed has positive effects on emissions, air pollution, accidents and congestion? What are your views on a general reduction in the maximum speed on motorways? What are your views on the differentiation of speed limits on motorways, for example depending on location and time?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u97	Mr Vandenbroucke, as early as 2017, Vias Institute carried out a study on the desirability of reducing or increasing the speed limit on motorways in Belgium. I invite you to take note of that. Moreover, the Dutch situation cannot be compared with the Belgian situation. For example, Austria now has a speed limit of 140 km/h. My conclusion was that I think it would be better to use variable speed signs to respond to the specific traffic situation, for example in rush hour and depending on air pollution. Variable speed signs are the clearest for road users, including the foreign ones. It is also likely that there will be social support for this, which will in turn help to ensure that it is respected. The Walloon region and the Flemish Region must assume their responsibility, because installing such signs is their responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u98	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Your 2017 proposal is not unknown to me. You did indeed order a study on the reduction or increase of the maximum speed. In any case, I do not consider it desirable to increase this speed limit on our Belgian roads. It seems totally irresponsible to me, both in terms of road safety and in terms of pollutant emissions. You are clearly not in favour of an overall reduction in the maximum daily speed. You prefer to work with signs that can vary speed depending on the circumstances, hustle or level of air pollution. This seems to me to be a better solution, which is already being applied in different places in our country. Now it is indeed up to the regional governments to get to work on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u99	Minister, after a number of unsuccessful months, the social negotiations on the railways were shut down. The views of both parties are now known and discussions on the proposal for a social protocol for the period 2020-2022 would not be resumed until the end of the year. However, the rail summit decided to pay a one-off 200 euro bonus in ecocheques to the staff. That is, of course, a sympathetic gesture, and it has also been warmly awarded to those staff members, but from the administrative point of view, it is a strange decision to give gifts worth a few million euros in the midst of a huge social negotiation. Mr Minister, how do the railway companies justify the decision? How is the measure financed? Is there a special pot available within SNCB's budget to finance such gifts? What is saved instead? It looks like buying off social peace, and that's not really appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, HR Rail informs me that the recruitment of staff on the Belgian railways is carried out on the basis of the Law of 23 July 1926 on SNCB and the staff of the Belgian Railways, as subsequently amended, in particular under Article 61. Paragraph 2 of that Article expressly provides for the recruitment of staff on a contract of employment. The original union requirements for a wage increase were not accepted. The measure on ecocheques is not a wage increase, as requested by the trade unions. It was decided to continue the social dialogue in order to work with trade union organisations and staff to determine how best to prepare the future and ensure quality, sustainable mobility at the service of customers. The payment of ecocheques to railway staff should be seen as a thank-you for the three companies, in particular SNCB, HR Rail and Infrabel, to their staff for their contribution to increasing productivity. That gesture will not be compensated by another budget line. I would like to add that in recent years, the Belgian railways have been able to compensate for the reduction in the rate of increase in productivity. The ecocheques will be paid to all the staff of the Belgian railways. Half-time staff will receive half the contribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u101	Mr Minister, it seems that the ecocheques are not being compensated for on another budget line. Allow me to make a quick calculation. HR Rail employs around 30,000 staff for the benefit of the two railway companies. The ecocheques shall represent an amount of EUR 200 per staff member. This brings the total to EUR 6 million. I am a little surprised that HR Rail has such amounts as a reserve. In fact, the railway companies often want additional budgets, they ask for more money. Now, apparently without any particular reason, there is an opportunity to carry out an extra million edition. I think that's weird. I wonder which other hidden budgetary posts are present at HR Rail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u102	Minister, before proceeding and in terms of organization, I think you will stay until 5:30 p.m. All colleagues who wish to turn their oral question into a written question will receive the answer immediately. We can also postpone the questions. In the oral questions, could we go to Question No 55262698C by Mrs Zanchetta, knowing that Question No 55002657C by Mr Wollants is postponed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u103	Minister, in your answer to an earlier question, you said that train drivers work an average of 40 hours a week, while the official working week is 36 hours. Additional leave days are granted as compensation. How do you explain that train drivers work an average of 40 hours a week, by way of derogation from the official 36 hours, while systematic overtime is illegal? How would you like to bring the working week, both officially and in practice, to 38 hours, reduce the number of days of compensation and thus bring practice closer to the law? Is it true that leave must be requested by train escorts with a digital system that becomes active at 00.00 hours of the date exactly three months before the day of leave to be applied for, whereby the system 'comes first, first served' ensures that applicants have at most a few seconds to record their leave? Do you think that's a good and functional system?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u104	Dear colleague, SNCB informs me that in the answer to your written question of 19 August 2019 it is clearly stated that a train coach must perform six to nine hours a day, with a maximum of 40 hours a week, with the average of all days together not exceeding eight hours. The difference between the official 36 hours and the maximum 40 hours can be recovered by train escorts, like all other staff. SNCB will examine the proposal to bring the practice closer to the law, while also taking into account the impact on flexibility in the deployment of staff to meet passenger demand. The leave arrangements are divided into local consigns dealing with ranking and timing. For the most important periods of leave, such as summer holidays, Christmas holidays and Easter holidays, there is usually a scheme whereby the award is carried out by turn. The aim is to achieve a fair distribution. Applications for leave for short periods, e.g. a few days or a weekend, have been digitised for some time. This has the advantage that the application is no longer place-bound and that an employee can apply from home on his leave. The rules on the digital submission of a leave application will in future be further aligned with the questions of staff, but always taking into account a common consensus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u105	Mr Minister, I welcome the fact that SNCB wants to bring the practice closer to the law, but I also note that the answer does not contradict the fact that workers have to camp literally for a short period of time in front of their computer in order to apply for a short period of leave and that it is then a matter of seconds to apply successfully or not. I welcome the fact that SNCB has also discovered the existence of computers and the Internet, but we may be so far away in 2020 that a digital application system for leave periods can be a little more human and practical. I don't understand why all this has to happen at midnight, with such rigid systems. Perhaps a more functional system can be found.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u106	Minister, I see that your appeal has been quite successful. Only, to be clear, are these oral questions transformed into written questions? In this case, you give the answer in advance. Otherwise, they fall, since they are neither oral nor written. If they are indeed transformed, they will then appear in the Written Questions Bulletin – even if members receive the text of the answer today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u107	Mr President, I turn my question No 55003021C into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u108	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u109	Minister, I refer to your answer to my written question in which, unfortunately, you refuse to disclose to SNCB the absenteeism level of train escorts. You do give a figure for the global absenteeism mid-summer vacation. You think that figure is positive. I would like to urge once again that the figure of absenteeism be published by the train escorts, not in the middle of the summer holidays, but throughout the year. It is a major concern of train drivers that too few staff are available and the workload is too high. This was also the motivation for previous strike commitments in the past. That is why I think it is important for Parliament to be able to assess this issue. The figure gives us an idea whether or not the objections of the train escorts and their syndicated representatives are justified. I would therefore ask you once again to publish the figures for this category of profession.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u110	Dear colleague, SNCB informs me that the absence of sickness from train escorts does not differ substantially from the response given on 31 July 2019. SNCB does not wish to communicate openly about the precise absenteeism rate per category of staff. On 31 December 2019, overall absenteeism amounted to 6,44 %. Follow-up to these figures is, moreover, a prerogatives of the Governing Board. If fewer people are present due to illness, these absences must be compensated to ensure train traffic. The main indicator is the shortage of train attendants. Hence the recruitment campaigns. Parliament's powers of control apply to policy, not to operational figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u111	Minister, I am sorry that you have to withdraw that refusal. Operational figures, that may be, but if there is a real problem within the organisation that triggers strikes, it is no longer an operational fact that is only a matter for the Management Board. Then it is a matter of society, and of every traveler affected by it. At the moment, we cannot judge whether the demands of the train attendants on the workload are correct. We do not have the information, since it is not available to us. The continued refusal of SNCB to do so suggests to me that there is an effective problem. The fact that they wish to conceal this persistently is not immediately reassuring that the situation is in line with what is desirable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u112	Question No 55002657C by Mr Bert Wollants is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u113	Mr.President, Minister, the figures published by SNCB showed that it had improved significantly in terms of the punctuality of trains in 2019. This is remarkable, but it must not be done at the expense of safety. A few weeks ago, a press article highlighted the testimony of a railway maintenance officer. He explained that he had found that for some time his officials had tended to favour the punctuality of trains at the expense of safety. It would appear that trains are sometimes allowed to run in poor condition or with defective equipment, or that the proper functioning of the TBL1+ safety system would not be monitored every time, whereas the system should be systematically checked. This is for the sole purpose of avoiding delays. Sometimes, while the hierarchy is informed of potential safety problems concerning certain trains, it would still decide to leave them, making the choice to deliberately ignore concerns that could lead to serious consequences. It would even appear that workers who report safety problems are sometimes muzzled or even punished. Minister, have you been able to have this testimony confirmed? What follow-up is provided to verify and take action accordingly? How and how often is the safety check of rolling stock carried out? Are these audits conducted by one or more persons?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u114	Dear colleague, SNCB and Infrabel tell me that I am not aware of this anonymous testimony. During the maintenance of its equipment, SNCB meets the criteria of safety, punctuality and cleanliness. It should be noted that an authority external to SNCB exists: it is the SSICF (Service de Sécurité et d'Interoperabilité des Chemins de Fer). If you have any elements, I really invite you to communicate them, even if the agent wants to remain anonymous. I hear so many things that I can no longer do the part of things between the real and the fake. I think we need to be very careful, knowing that safety is the first priority of SNCB. The safety check of rolling stock shall be carried out during visits and preventive maintenance operations. SNCB provided me with a fairly technical description of all the safety processes that take place before starting the train. Staff in the field are obviously responsible for checking and confirming whether there are concerns or not. If the individual is concerned about reprisals, you communicate the incident or incidents to the FCIMS, which is accountable to Minister Ducrame, independently. You have to be very careful one way or the other. Is it true or not, exaggerated or not? I won't say anything. In any case, safety remains a criterion that cannot be avoided. It is sufficient to see the treatment given to a recent judgment to understand that, if this is the case, the personal responsibility of the persons concerned is very high.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u115	Minister, thank you for your answer. In a previous question, we discussed issues related to social networks and recordings. In this case, it is a testimony relayed by the press. I will not fail to learn even more about this. Simply, I would have liked more information on the frequency of security checks. Perhaps I will ask you a question later on.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u116	I do not understand the scope of your comment. An annex is sent to you. You should know that the rails are equipped with automatic devices and that the switches are open or closed. When they were closed, it was because a relay detector found that there was a problem. There are many devices to control the device. For example, when the barrier at a crossing is not closed while it should, the entire device turns red because the relays signify it. Get to know the note!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic110x.u117	I'll take a look at the annex.
