ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u1	Mr Minister, first of all I would like to congratulate you on your new position and welcome you to our committee. We hope for good cooperation, just as we have always had with your predecessor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u2	Madam President, thank you for your congratulations. I'm really looking forward to it. I hear this is an excellent committee with very good Members of Parliament. I'm a lawyer myself. It is a happy return for me and I hope that we can work well together and have a good dialogue. Of course there is a majority and an opposition, but I am certainly prepared to listen to the arguments of the various Members, so let us try to do so in good cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, you know the Rules of Procedure. If you have multiple questions, you can ask them immediately and then replicate them afterwards. Mr Van Hecke has been detained in another committee. Mrs. Rohonyi was present, but I suppose she'll be back shortly. I call Mr Boukili.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u4	Madam Chair, Minister, if there is a lesson to learn from the events of the past few days, it is that we must listen to the unions and the field workers. For weeks, they have been sounding alarms at the relaxation of security measures in prisons regarding visits. Unfortunately, reality makes them right. Today, two prisons are in confinement, that of Nivelles and that of Huy. A section of that of Saint-Gilles is also so. This has the catastrophic consequences that are known to prisoners. Today, all activities and visits are suspended. Workers, field workers and unions were right, and they were not listened to. This shows the importance of trade unions, their mobilization and their right to strike. It was after these strikes that they were heard. Unfortunately, this right to strike is jeopardized by the Minimum Service Act. It is crazy to see how simply the staff were ignored and despised. They are heroes of the coronavirus, among other workers. They're the ones in the field. They continue to work and take risks. They managed to keep the virus out of jail. When they say that relaxation is not appropriate, and that it is worrying, they must be listened to, heard, and not sweep their claims as they have done in the past. At this microphone, I would like to congratulate them for their commitment, their struggle and their determination. That was the key for the authorities to come back to these irresponsible decisions that are completely disconnected from the reality of the ground. I think we need to learn the lesson, that is to say, listen to them more when they come with claims, and not sweep them with a back of the hand, but take them into consideration. Minister, I have a few questions about the current situation. Are you committed to listening more to union organizations and to taking into account staff expertise in the future? What is the precise situation of the number of contaminated inmates, particularly in Huy, Nivelles and Saint-Gilles? Where are the positive inmates and have they been transferred? What about the VOCID-19 wing of Lantin Prison? It was normally scheduled to open at the end of the week. What about it? What about protective equipment? During outbreaks of contamination, FFP2 masks are absolutely necessary. Are there sufficient stocks in all prisons? This morning, the International Prison Observatory points to the ever-increasing overcrowding in prisons. There are now 10,500 prisoners incarcerated. Overpopulation is a serious long-term problem in our country. In times of epidemics, this makes the situation even more explosive. What do you intend to do in the short and long term? The lack of staff is also an evil in Belgian prisons. What do you intend to do in the short and long term with the planned investments in justice? How much of these investments will you dedicate to additional staff in prisons? What is specifically about nursing staff in prisons?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u5	Madam Chair, Minister, I refer to the text of my question. But I would also like to ask you a number of other questions in line with the current situation. This is the very subject of a topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u6	Minister, an agreement would have taken place this Monday between you, the prison administration and the unions to suspend unsupervised visits for a month, starting this Friday, considering that infections occur after the intimate visits granted to the inmates or after their leave. However, the Collectif de Lutte Anti-Carcerale claims to have testimonies, videos and photos attesting that some agents do not respect the wearing of the mask or the safety distance. What do you say to him today? Will the enforcement of barrier actions by agents be more severely controlled? If so, by whom and how? What about visits by underage children? Moreover, it would appear that the number of guards required for the minimum service, which is a legal obligation, was still not reached yesterday. This is in any case what has been observed in 17 prisons across the country. At Saint-Gilles prison, only 38% of the necessary staff were present. How do you explain this situation and, above all, how do you intend to remedy it? What is the percentage of staff required for minimum service? The unions mention the figure of 70 per cent, while your predecessor mentioned the figure of 55 per cent. On what basis is this percentage determined? How will officers who have been chronically understaffed for many years be able to take their leave if they are requisitioned as part of this minimum service? In addition, will the Consultation Committee, which was announced yesterday and is scheduled this Friday, address the issue of health measures in prison, knowing that prisoners and prison officers have so far been the great forgotten of the National Security Council, a situation which, I dare hope, will change? Finally, I should like to refer to an open letter from the Brussels Bar to all lawyers on 9 October. This letter relates to the accessibility of the lawyer to his client when he is detained. Indeed, a lawyer claims to have had to report to the prison four times in order to finally be able to talk to his client, knowing that at each of his visits he had to wait an hour and a half to hear that the planned meeting with his client could not take place. In total, this represents six hours of waiting for a single half-hour meeting with the client, making it impossible to properly exercise the rights of the defence. Minister, what measures are you planning to ensure that lawyers have access to their clients, knowing that your predecessor felt there was no problem at this level?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u7	Minister, the guards in our prisons have stopped and I think rightly so. They no longer take it that their security is subordinated to the right of the detainees to uninterrupted visits, penitentiary leave and night-time permits. They ask only one thing, the continuation of the temporary suspension of the uninterrupted visit and the other measures, no more or no less, and rightly so. Unfortunately, at a time when the corona figures are rising dramatically again, when all the specialists are asking for the measures to be tightened up, for cafes to be closed again earlier, for our social bubble to be reduced, for the duty of masking to be strengthened, and I can go on for a while, for measures to be taken by the good citizens in their daily lives, there are 22 groups of people whose rights had to be relaxed: the inmates. They had to be given more freedom again. This is unacceptable, the guards say, and I think, rightly so. For the sake of clarity, Minister, this is not about the principle of the undisturbed visit itself, about the night-time permits, about the penitentiary leave. That's not up for discussion here. I think the prison staff is right. They've been working under difficult circumstances for years. They have been calling for an improvement in their statute for a long time. They have to work overtime. They can't take their vacation. They have to work under stressful conditions due to overpopulation in prisons. These are all matters for which the prison staff have been calling for attention for years, but for which the policy has not received attention in the past legislatures and has not made any financial resources available, but that is another discussion. Today it is about protecting the guards, their safety and their health and that of their families. It is right to ask you, Minister, to take drastic action and make a very clear choice. That choice does not cost half a cent this time, Minister, it is only the choice for the safety and health of the guards. Again, we are in very special circumstances for which no one has chosen, not the population, not the guards and not the prisoners, but it is a reality that everyone must take into account, including the prisoners. Minister, we read in the press that there has been social dialogue between you and the trade unions. There would be an agreement that would be submitted to the guards. Today the result would be known. I don't know if you've heard of it. In any case, we have been able to read that the trade unions would defend this. This would have led to the further suspension of the relaxation of the undisturbed visit measures for one month. Minister, I think this clearly shows that the staff in our prisons were right. I therefore ask you very clearly, when it comes to the health of the prison staff, especially in times of corona, whether you will always be radically on the side of the staff. After all, they deserve this. I hope that in future you will also listen to the other sighs that unfortunately cost money. I've just listed those sighs. After all, it is high time that measures were taken, that budgets were made available, that the status of those who have to work in very difficult conditions was finally improved.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u8	Madam President, Minister, you were allowed to fly in immediately, with a number of strikes in prisons. You might have imagined it differently. It probably won't be the last time either. We approved minimum services during the previous legislature, but we have to note that the minimum service targets were not met in many prisons during this strike, which is of course not evident. Like the previous speakers, I understand that there has been a consultation and that something would have come out of there. The main reason for the strikes was the relaxed visitor regime, which I understand you have once again suspended in view of the rising figures in this health crisis. I am particularly interested in the other measure. It will also be discussed, but I want to know how you will deal with the penitentiary engagements now. Will cells be released again, as happened during the first corona wave? For who comes back, how will that happen? Will that be block or not? Is there sufficient test capacity available for those to return or enter? After all, I understand that the number of detentions during the previous wave fell sharply, but that 700 prisoners were finally released. I therefore wonder, particularly in view of the government agreement that all penalties will be implemented, how you will strike a balance here, on the one hand, between this health crisis and the importance of everyone and, on the other hand, the execution of penalties, which must still be done correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u9	Madam President, Minister, let me begin by congratulating you on your new duties. As a starting point, I will address a thorny issue, namely that of prisons. My questions will focus on the current health rules. In view of the many reactions I have seen recently, I would have liked to hear you take stock of the situation. So far, our prisons have been relatively free of VOCID-19 contamination. It was therefore understandable and normal that there should be measures to extend the visits of detainees since September. It is true that in recent days some prisons have been more affected by contamination and therefore have to tighten confinement. I am thinking in particular of the Huy prison, which is located in my constituency in the province of Liège, and in which a large number of contaminations have been recorded. It would be important to determine precisely the origin of the contamination. Indeed, the conditions of detention since the outbreak of the pandemic have been extremely difficult due to the lack of contact with relatives and also with stakeholders. In prisons affected by contamination, prisoners appear to be completely confined to their cells, without even having the right to showers and meadows. However, consideration must also be given to the presence of prison staff who return to their families and who are at risk of being contaminated in normal life, like everyone else. So, Minister, what prisons are currently in which contamination is problematic? What are the health rules applicable in prisons? We have heard several statements in this regard and you have had consultations with the trade unions. Could you provide an overview of the situation in a comprehensive manner? What are the precautionary measures taken by both prisoners and their visitors and prison staff? What alternative measures are being taken to enable prisoners to live decently, despite precautionary measures in places of detention affected by the epidemic? I believe that it is first and foremost necessary to make some sort of cleavage and not to blame prison staff or inmates. There must be an appropriate balance between the interests in question, namely the interests of the staff, who are not in sufficient numbers to work in optimal security conditions, but also the interests of the detainees, who must be able to live in decent conditions, in accordance with the precaution rules imposed. Above all, one must avoid opposing one another, because the general interest recommends balanced measures, both for prisoners and for the respective staff and families.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u10	Madam President, Minister, last week we learned that the prisons in Nivelles and Huy were quarantined, after positive cases were detected among the inmates. Of course, prisons are poorly ventilated areas, often unsanitary, overcrowded, and thus preferred breeding grounds for an epidemic. How, in this case, do not share the concern of prison officers about these positive cases in their workplace, in a context where contamination is constantly increasing? However, it was crucial to ensure that measures taken to curb the spread of the pandemic in prisons did not further damage the human rights of detainees. At the end of August, a number of associations working with prisoners warned in a white paper about the suffering of prisoners and their relatives, including the restrictions on contacts with the outside world. The proposals that have, it seems, been made to the unions on Monday would include suspending for a month visitors "surveillance" and taking prison leave from only one block per quarter. These measures therefore act exclusively on detainees and may suggest that they would be the only vector of the virus entering prisons, which still seems difficult to support. Minister, the health situation is not going to improve quickly. The arrangements that will be made must therefore be made by having in mind the health and well-being of the officers but also of the incarcerated persons, which a narrowing of the contacts with the outside cannot ensure. If the measures referred to are actually accepted by the trade unions and put in place, what other provisions are you planning to ensure the health and well-being of all those concerned? Are you considering, for example, forms of release in order to reduce promiscuity in prisons as may have been the case in the first wave? Among other measures, the organizations I mentioned in the White Paper propose a reduction of sentences for all detained persons who would compensate for the human rights violations resulting from measures taken to combat the pandemic for prisoners and their relatives. What do you think?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u11	Madam President, Minister, congratulations and welcome to your new duties, which are not simple because they are linked to a pandemic situation and the endemic situation of prisons, which is that of overcrowding and the problems we are experiencing. Perhaps my question is already out of date. This is the subject of this topical debate. I therefore refer to my written questions. Overly, I would ask that we be told about the terms of the agreement that would have been reached with the various unions to lift the strike notice that was to begin this weekend.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u12	I would like the Minister's reply to pay particular attention to the arrangements made for the division of labour with the Bruges, Lantin and Vilvoorde departments in the fight against corona, as well as to the state of reception for positively tested prisoners.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u13	Mr President, Minister, the prison system has indeed experienced very moving times in recent months. It is not always easy to find a healthy balance between the interests of the staff and the interests of the detainees. On their return, prisoners would not be tested very much. The growing unrest about this is, of course, also strongly linked to the rising figures that can generally be seen in our society. Minister, how was the social consultation on Monday? What kind of agreement did you get? Can you meet the demands of the unions? Is it appropriate to test more frequently when prisoners return? Do you know what the Security Council's position is on the demands of the trade unions? Are you serious about the need for another entanglement in the prisons? Are there any other plans in the scaffolding to limit the number of infections in prisons as much as possible? Is the minimum service respected? Do you think that a faster requisition might be necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u14	Mr Minister, congratulations on your new position. Between the time we tabled our question and today, the situation has changed. A notice of strike is still pending, until October 18. On the other hand, the liberal union lifted its notice of action, considering that the authorities had granted trade union requests. We know that a meeting took place on Monday between your firm and the unions. Can you inform us about the content of this meeting and the conclusions that have been drawn from it? Secondly, what about the testing of prison officers, visitors and detainees on their return from prison leave? Can you confirm that unattended visits have resumed? Are they still allowed? In other countries, physical visits are subject to such strict rules of social distancing, and given that detainees have the right to talk to their families via an electronic system, families and detainees prefer virtual visits. This is particularly the case in Great Britain, where special software has been developed for British prisons (Purple Visits). Has the Belgian prison administration carried out a study with a view to applying this type of solution? A second very important aspect in the spread of the virus is the question of testing. There are now serological tests, the results of which are known within ten minutes. They are currently used at airports in Italy to control passengers upon arrival. Is this fast and reliable test solution being studied to reduce the spread of the virus and to test prison officers prior to entry, prisoners prior to their return from leave and visitors?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u15	Thank you for the many questions and the first topical debate. We haven't been spared. It's not honeymoon, but that's our job. I am, of course, very aware of that. Many questions also concern topicality, fresh from the press. I'll try to answer all the questions, but it's a lot of questions. I am supported by an excellent administration of the prison system, the EPI. A lot of talented people work there. The measures in prison must reflect society as much as possible. If the National Security Council, and recently the Consultative Committee decides to relax or, at the moment, to tighten up, we are actually looking at how we translate that into the context of a prison. The Consultation Committee or the Security Council shall not impose specific measures on the Prison Office. It's up to us to do that. Of course, we take the context into account. Moreover, the measures are always assessed against the recommendation of Sciensano. That's obvious. I will first outline the functioning of the prison during the lockdown and the evolution afterwards. Thus, during the confinement period, the detainees received no visits and were only able to perform a minimum of activities outside their cells. These are the daily premises and the work in the workshop. It has been heavily focused on protection and hygiene measures. The royal decrees of special powers had suspended such arrangements as prison leave and leave. However, vulnerable prisoners were given an interruption of their sentences. As a result of these provisions, the number of contaminations in prison has remained very limited, contrary to what has been found outside. In the months of April and May, when there were many infections in society, the Prison Service was spared from this, thanks to the good measures taken by the Director-General and his entire team. Later on, the National Security Council announced relaxations and the power of attorney decisions were also terminated. At that time, my predecessor gradually relaxed the prison system. In a first phase it was about the visitation scheme. At that time they started rebooting the table visit and the children's visit and finally the undisturbed visit was restarted from 14 September. A month ago, it was decided that undisturbed visits would be allowed again, and that in proportion to 1% of the prisoners per day, a hundred people per day. Intimate contact has thus only become possible from 14 September. If one calculates from the beginning of the lockdown in early March, it is thus so long ago that those people have not had that possibility. This is just to give you an overview of the situation, not only of the prison guards, but also of the prisoners. Apart from the relaxations that have been introduced and phased out, the gap between what is allowed outside and what is happening in prisons is still very large. Know that the only social contact that prisoners have, besides phone and video calls, consists of their visit. I took office on 1 October and I was indeed immediately confronted with the questions of the trade unions. We had a first meeting where we had good discussions. One union then decided to withdraw the strike commitment. That was pretty unseen, it doesn't happen that often. But then we have seen the figures rise, not only in prisons, but also in the outside world. On Monday 12 October we had a good and constructive meeting with the three trade unions and agreed on four principles. Firstly, in addition to telephone and video calls, the possibility remains for the prisoners to have a table visit. They must wear a mouth mask and may give their visitors a short hug at the beginning and end of the visit. For the rest of the visit, they must remain behind plexiglass, but may remove their mouth masks. There is also accompanied children's visit with their own children and partner. The number of visitors per detainee is limited to three, as in the free society. For children's visits, the inmate must designate a permanent visitor who belongs to those three persons. The second measure is that we have suspended the undisturbed visit, of course, for at least one month, after which we will evaluate the measure. Of course, we will also take account of the evolution of the figures in our society. Thirdly, the trimestrial leave is included in block as much as possible. The prisoners concerned will be subject to medical consultation within 24 hours after leave and will be systematically tested. Fourthly, the importance of wearing a mouth mask and the other hygiene measures have been underlined once again for everyone, not only for the prisoners, the visitors but also for the staff. Mrs Rohonyi was referring, I think, to pictures. The prisoners must also wear mouth masks on the walk. Once a prisoner leaves the cell, he or she must put on the mouth mask and the mouth mask must also be worn during the walk, unlike in the past. A question was asked about the attitude of the trade unions. They defended that proposal with regard to their supporters. I can tell you, first of all, that we have now obtained the agreement of the three trade unions. This way, we guarantee a safe environment for both inmates and staff and visitors. Trade union organisations have promised to defend these measures and have therefore done so. Their decision is such that they all agree. I'm getting to the numbers now. On the date of 2 October 2020, a total of 118 staff were tested positively since the start of the corona crisis, of which 90 were cured and 28 were absent due to illness. For the inmates, I'll give you the numbers today. You will notice that we are working with current figures. There have been 100 inmates tested positive, 47 of whom are cured and 34 are contagious. Inmates who test positive are transferred to the medical department of the Bruges prison, where there is a separate ward of 24 beds. For Lantin there is indeed a specific department. The wing has been cleared. The department should be ready by the end of the month. In addition, in Vilvoorde there is also a facility provided for it is also ready for inmates with severe symptoms. Colleagues, when you study these figures, you will have noticed that in fact less than 1% of the population in detention has been infected and tested positively, which is in no way comparable to the situation at the time in March and April 2020 in residential care centres and hospitals. It is also important to mention that all prisoners imprisoned from the outside are placed in preventive quarantine and tested. In this way, we will prevent them from infecting other prisoners and other staff. That is therefore a preventive measure that we are taking. I will now talk about the situation of three prisons: Nivelles, Huy and Saint-Gilles. Last week, eight and five new infections were detected in Nivelles and Huy prisons, respectively. It turns out that these are outbreaks of internal contamination. Both prisons were placed in full quarantine pending the analysis of the contamination outbreaks, and the receipt of all test results. What are the tests for now? Unfortunately in Huy, there were four new positive cases. In Nivelles, the audit is underway but so far, all the results are negative. During the quarantine of these two prisons, the following rules apply. Firstly, there can be no internal or external movements. That means no walk and no visit. Only lawyers, that's important... I think the question was asked by Mrs Rohonyi. Lawyers who want to see their clients are allowed to do so, but... However, we advise the lawyers to do so via phone or video. If that's what they want, it could be personal with the client. The second measure applicable in Nivelles and Huy prisons is to test all detainees in the wing concerned. Depending on the results, inmates from other wings will also be tested. Thirdly, all staff can obtain a certificate through the physician of the establishments so that they can have a test carried out. Fourth step: all staff in contact with detainees must wear an FFP2 mask. Fifthly, no transfer takes place. Contaminated prisoners in Huy and Nivelles prisons remain in their own facilities for the time being, while in medical isolation, in order to be completely separated from other detainees. Special hygiene measures are taken to protect staff who come into contact with them. St. Gillis' prison has been in partial lockdown since yesterday afternoon. There's a wing closed. It is mainly about contagion of incoming detainees for freedom. The tests are in progress. I heard half an hour ago that 50 people have been tested negative so far. We're still waiting on the other people's tests. If those results were negative, the lockdown could be stopped and we would go back to the classic prison regime. With regard to the lack of staff and the debate on overtime, we are naturally aware of this problem. I would like to point out that it is part of a broader concern than that resulting from the Coronavirus crisis – which, unfortunately, makes it even more difficult to develop a solution. I have been asked other topical questions. Was the minimum service respected? We followed the numbers very well. In some establishments it is, in others it is not. We will also make an evaluation of this, as required by the law. I answered the questions about the lawyers. Have any of the first lockdown people been released? That was the result of decisions taken under a special power of attorney law and the power of attorney decisions dating from the lockdown period. They have been closed since the end of June. At the moment, there is no legal basis. I would remind Mrs De Wit and colleagues at Ecolo that there is no legal basis for reintroducing these measures. The rule is that one cannot interrupt more than three days per trimester. If we want to deviate from that, we need to change the law. Ladies Gilson and Matz, you asked me what's still allowed the inmates. In other words, can they still do something? In the prisons where there is no lockdown, there are still possibilities. One can take lessons. There's employment. There's masquerade work. There's a table call. There are video calls, too. In total, we have read 55,000 video-calls to see the existing models in the UK and elsewhere. Of course, we are continuing on this path through digitization. Madam President, I may have spoken a little long, I apologize for that, but I think I have been able to answer all the questions put by my fellow Members. Of course, Members are free to ask questions. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u16	Minister, there is a lot to be said. First of all, with regard to health measures, you say that, indeed, there is a gap between the situation outside the prison and that within the prison, and that every effort must be made to bridge this gap. But precisely, why is the three-bubble in the prison planned, while at the same time eliminating unsupervised visits? It is these unsupervised visits that allow inmates to have close contact, which is allowed by the bubble of three. The bubble of three allows citizens to have close contact with three other people. However, for inmates, this is not the case, as unsupervised visits are removed. For me, there is an inconsistency already at this level. As far as the access of lawyers to their clients is concerned, here too, for me, there is always, again, a dichotomy between theory and practice. Yeah, theoretically, the lawyer has access to his client. However, as I said and as has been reported by the Brussels Bar, in practice, lawyers often have to wait hours to see their client, which is still essential to properly prepare their defence. With regard to the understaffing in our prisons, you have this important desire to refinance justice, but this problem is not going to be solved only by this way. We'll have to have a real plan to recruit prison officers. If there is an evaluation at this level, it is primarily a staffing needs assessment to eventually complete the framework. We will pay close attention to this as part of your policy brief. As far as minimum service is concerned, I hear your willingness to evaluate the law. But before evaluating the law, it should already be ensured that it is properly enforced and enforced. Again, this is not the case; in fact, you yourself say that in some prisons this minimum service has been provided, and not in others. That's not acceptable. This reveals a real problem of inequality of detainees with respect for their rights. Moreover, I would like to point out that we are still waiting for this famous royal decree implementing the law of 14 March 2019 which provides for this minimum service. In my view, this will have to be a priority for your ministry in the coming months. You have also pointed out that the decrees of special powers taken during confinement have made it possible to limit the spread of the virus in our prisons, but also to ensure respect for the detainees' right to privacy, with more widespread use of prison leave and leave. Rather, this should encourage us to reflect more broadly on how to reduce the congestion of our prisons and give real meaning to our prison sentences. Finally, I would like to point out that I did not get any answers to my question about the mega-prison project in Haren. This, however, seems to me to be a fundamental point, since your government agreement insists on the advantage of small prisons, but at the same time we are implementing this mega-prison project which can accommodate 1,190 prisoners, a prison which we know will be automatically filled and which will require a real solution in terms of staff and respect for their working conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u17	Minister, if we have two jails now, it is because we have been too late to consider and listen to unions and field officers. Their strike was justified, despite the fact that it was hindered by the minimum service, which also showed its limits. Above all, this strike allowed the authorities to realize the seriousness of the situation. Since mid-September, in other words for a month, trade unions and field workers have been sounding alarms to draw our attention to the problems and the lack of resources needed to ease the visit measures. It was only when they went on strike – and fortunately they did – and when the prisons confined themselves, that we realized the seriousness of the situation. Mr Minister, I hope that in the future you will be more attentive to union demands, because the reality shows us that these demands are in the interest of prison workers as well as prisoners, who are also victims of the virus. In the future, their demands must be taken seriously because they are in the interests of our society. I hope that with regard to the various measures taken by the previous government, there will be a challenge, particularly with regard to the Law on Minimum Service and the Right to Strike, but also the recruitment of new agents. That was the reason for the strikes before confinement. The claims concerned the need for more workers to ensure the safety of officers and detainees. I also hope that your government will listen more. The reality shows us that it is the field officers who know the situation best and that their analysis must be based instead of being in confrontation and that they are not obliged to strike in order to be listened to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, but I am not entirely satisfied. You said that the measures must reflect the measures that apply in society. I can understand that in itself, but not in the corona crisis we know today. We can therefore say very clearly that the prison staff strike was 100% justified. I'll continue to support them. I would like to make a comparison with a number of situations during the first wave. After all, we all remember the images of rest houses where the residents were not allowed visitors at all. They were only allowed to wave behind the window to their families and their grandchildren could certainly not cuddle. However, for those people this is as important as undisturbed visits for prisoners. These elderly people were isolated and died alone, without being able to say goodbye. When we hear the reports today, I fear that this scenario is threatening again in more and more residential care centres. They're gonna have to close their doors again for visitors. I am pleased to hear that there is an agreement with the trade unions today, although only for one month if I have understood it correctly. I hope you will not hesitate to radically side with the prison staff if the situation does not improve within a month. You will then have to respond to their justified desire to suspend the undisturbed visit again so that they do not have to stop again. Prison staff deserve this, in the interests of their safety and health, but also of their families and their children. So please listen to the justified sighs on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You have quickly crossed it in certain areas, but I fully understand that in view of the many questions. You must look here for the very difficult balance between the health of the prisoners, the health of the penitentiary staff and the contact with the families. The same issue is also being raised today in many other places. For example, in the WZCs one makes the same exercise. I hope that you will also take into account the safety of our society in maintaining that balance and that you will not go about completely emptying the prisons, even if there is a health crisis. I therefore hope that there will be no extension of penitentiary leave or suspension of prison sentences. To make another comparison with the WSCs, which people were not allowed to go out at some point and they had actually done nothing wrong. So I hope that you will take care of that, and if that is not the case, we will certainly be able to tell you about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for having made a fairly comprehensive statement of the situation, even if it only reflects a small part of what society as a whole is experiencing, as you said. I think, however, that the measures adopted are still only plasters on a wooden leg. We already know that. Indeed, the situation of prisons, must be reviewed as a whole, and that, in my view, will be one of the major tasks of your ministry. It will be important to review the dedicated means but also the meaning that we want to give to grief in a system as we know it at present. The VOCID-19 crisis is therefore only a reflection of the rather weak situation in prisons at present. There is a lack of staff, but there is also a need to reflect on the meaning of the pain and on a range of alternatives. Take the example of Canada! I'm sure you'll be inspired by it. They have a head start on the meaning of punishment in their prison system. Of course, you've told us about measures (...) but in reality, it's not quite like this that's happening, especially with regard to access by lawyers to prisons, etc. (...) do not upset me, but practice upsets me much more. We know that a number of rights are being violated. But it is, as I said, only a reflection of a more important and more general situation in prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u21	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your answers to our many questions. There would be a lot to say, but I will just focus on two points. First of all, you pointed to the lack of a current legal basis to reintroduce these forms of liberation. Allow me, however, to tell you that this would not be the first legislative amendment to take place in the context of this health crisis. This should not therefore constitute a blockage to the implementation of this measure. Secondly, I would like to go back to the proposal that you did not mention to grant a reduction of sentence to detainees to compensate for violations of their fundamental rights and to draw your attention to a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in June 2020. Indeed, Belgium was once again condemned for the poor conditions of detention suffered by the prisoners, following the long strikes in the spring of 2016. In fact, the European Court concluded its opinion by referring to the violation of Articles 3 and 13 of the Convention and awarded each of the applicants 3,500 euros for material and moral damage and 1,500 euros for expenses and expenses. Today, however, the restrictions imposed on detainees place them in conditions very similar to those prevailing during the 2016 strikes. In so doing, if the detainees had the means and the possibility to bring the case to the European Court of Human Rights, it is possible to assume that Belgium would again be ordered to compensate the complainants. Therefore, it would seem to me to be a good policy to take the lead and to reflect, from now on, on the granting of compensation to detainees for these serious violations of their rights. This could take the form of a reduction of sentence. I really encourage you to think about this possibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u22	Madam Chair, Minister, I join my colleagues in thanking you for your answers. The crisis exacerbates excesses and inadequacies. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the prison crisis is endemic in terms of inadequacies in terms of supervision, conditions of detention, etc. I'm not going to put you to shame because you haven't been able to deal with these problems in a week. I know you're working on it. In fact, I see in a positive way that language has been taken with the trade unions and that consultation has been initiated. In any case, there is a commitment to maintain a form of social peace for a month in order to find a solution. These solutions must be considered both for prisoners, whose conditions are unfortunately deplorable, and for prison officers who must, in order to be able to perform their duties properly, do so in optimal conditions. It's not nice to get to work with your belly ball and go home worried about contaminating your family because of your day's work. I know that you are attentive to these considerations. I think that in the following weeks we will have the opportunity to come back to this subject very quickly, given the forthcoming union consultation. I hope that we will then be able to receive further answers. I also agree with my colleague Mrs Hugon that Parliament is at your disposal. If this crisis persists for many weeks or even months, we are at your disposal to propose legislation giving a structural framework to a situation of detention and to ensure that these situations of detention can be improved for the benefit of both prisoners and prison officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u23	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Allow me to congratulate you and wish you every success. I hope to be able to inspire you from time to time. As far as your answer is concerned, we have often said that Corona is making structural problems even more acute and placing them in the spotlight. Today, the newspaper said that there are 70% more deaths among disadvantaged people because of corona. The structural problems of the Justice Department are also further exposed by corona in a merciless manner, namely the problems of overcrowding, staff shortages, and so on. We are pleased that you have reached an agreement. We are counting on you to continue to work on structural solutions over the next few years and to find the balance between the legitimate concerns of the staff and the psychosocial well-being of prisoners and their families, in full awareness that they are not mutually exclusive. On the contrary, the guards too do not want the prisoners to feel better. Let us look together for solutions for everyone's benefit throughout the legislature. One more question to clarify. I heard you say a few things about Lantin and Vilvoorde. Before the summer it was said that there would be a department in Lantin for asymptomatic positive-tested inmates. In Vilvoorde would be provided for overflow, when the occupation in Bruges would be above sixty percent. That is the case now. I understand that the departments in Vilvoorde are being prepared and are now ready, or almost ready. Can you repeat the exact timetable of that? Can you clarify whether it was always intended to open just now? Or was there a delay? Wouldn't it have been helpful if those departments had been in use for a long time now? Couldn't that have prevented a lot of trouble? If so, do you know why this was not the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u24	Thank you for your detailed explanation, Minister, and for the very recent figures. I can all conclude that everything that can be done was done. You referred, among other things, to the systematic testing and preventive quarantine measures taken when people return. It is indeed dancing on a weak cord again and again. It is not just a problem in prison, but in society as a whole and in many other facilities to strike a balance between sufficient social contact and the health of everyone, not just the staff, but also prisoners and residents. There are many lockdowns in residential care centers today, including in my own municipality, where we have been spared for seven months and where we have now been in full lockdown for three weeks. Today we have opened up again to people who have fortunately not been tested positively. It will therefore always be an exercise between entanglement if necessary and relaxation where possible. We have a single objective in mind, namely to protect the health of everyone within that provision. It is good that there is an agreement with the three trade unions today. I wish you every success in your further mandate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u25	Minister, thank you for all your answers. The epidemic is not over yet. To give you an idea, today, the average incidence figures per 100,000 people are in Italy of 77 and 263 in Catalonia, one of the regions seriously affected. Belgium has 467.8 cases per 100,000 persons. These are obviously statistics. So we are not yet at the end of our sentences. I hear you have already set up a consultation and achieved a good result with the unions. You have a month ahead of you. I can therefore only encourage you to continue to set up the dialogue started, but also to strengthen the testing and to consider this track of very rapid tests, the results of which are known after ten minutes. I also encourage you to set up these virtual visits as in Great Britain, virtual visits, in case the situation worsens enormously and visits should be completely removed even with current plexiglas restrictions, etc. Such a virtual system will keep contacts, reassure prison officers and keep this epidemic under control, as my colleagues have said, in order to avoid at all costs, for our economy and at the human level, a new lockdown. Madam President, I would also like to say that I am becoming an alternate member in the committee. I will serve as an effective member on the constitutional, VOCID-19 and Congo commissions. It was a pleasure to be here as an effective member. I am pleased to have been able to ask the new minister one more question and will continue to follow the work as an alternate. Thank you and thank all colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u26	As an alternate, of course, Madame Gilson, you are always welcome. Mr Van Quickenborne, you had a few additional answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u27	Mrs Gilson, before I say goodbye, I would like to remind you that the video conferencing system has existed in prison since the beginning of the VOCID-19 crisis. As I told you, there have been 55,000 since March. Thank you for your suggestion, which has already become a reality. Mr Segers asked about the situation in Vilvoorde and Lantin. Vilvoorde is currently available. It's about a certain type of inmates. Why did it take a little longer for Lantin? The consultation with the local representatives was not so easy, but there is now a solution. The wing has been cleared and must be ready by this month. You're a number of people asking me about the situation in prison. That's an obvious problem. COVID has unfortunately made the problems in prison clearer. We are facing structural problems there. We have the advantage that this government deliberately chooses to invest in Justice. And for me, justice also means prison, of course, EPI. That's obvious. A number of important decisions have, of course, already been taken. The master plan drawn up by my predecessor is, of course, in progress. We're going to evaluate that, too. I would like to respond to Mrs Rohonyi's comments on Haren. Perhaps it would be a good idea to arrange an on-site visit with the committee's colleagues. When one hears the name of Haren's prison, with more than a thousand prisoners, one quickly thinks that this is a mastodon prison where one repeats the mistakes of the past. Nothing else is true, I've been told. I'm relying on the experts' knowledge. It is a prison village with various facilities and pavilions, which is in no way comparable to the current prisons in our country. It's not like this is a mastodon. There are also the transition houses, the ganghouses and the alternatives that I am also in favour of, but it is impossible to provide all the capacity for our country with those transition houses alone. So it is a story in which we will try to combine the two. Secondly, when it comes to prisons, it is also about the status of our penitentiary staff and the attractiveness of the profession. We have to look at that too. It's a nice job. We need to convince people to want to apply for it, too. We know people are retiring. They need to be replaced. It is not easy in the current tense labour market to find people, but we are going to do our very best. Thirdly, we must seek good cooperation with the communities. The communities are responsible for education, culture and religious beliefs in prisons. It is crucial that we can come to agreements together. Finally, I am also concerned with the circumstances of the detainees themselves. The majority of inmates will be released someday. We want to work on a good penitentiary policy. Then attention should also be paid to the reintegration of detainees. That's crucial. Later today, questions will be raised about sex crimes. It is also about how people are accompanied to get them out of prisons better than they have entered. These are important points of discussion. I heard that Mr. Aouasti was ready to discuss and was available to the minister to pass laws. Of course that's what we're going to do. We will not wait until the end of the VOCID-19 to discuss and make decisions. I am well aware of the importance of the debate on the prison situation in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u28	Since Mrs Rohyoni is specifically mentioned, she can replicate for a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u29	Minister, thank you. It is true that collaboration with federated entities is essential. In fact, throughout the previous legislature, the Brussels Minister of Training had insisted on the need for training in prisons, because that is what makes it possible to participate in our essential objective of reintegrating prisoners into society. I can only encourage you in your effort to collaborate with the federated entities in relation to this. As far as Haren is concerned, I am asking no better than to go there. Here too, during the previous legislature, we have repeatedly called upon the representatives of the Régie des Bâtiments. We realized that there was no case before the Court of Auditors and that, therefore, an audit might have to be carried out. We obtained some of the documents related to the procurement. So it gave the impression that there were some things to hide. We didn't know what kind of prison we were heading for: a prison village or a mega-prison. So I'm not asking for any better. I am already grateful to the services for making this visit a reality, as well as to the minister for his suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u30	We will certainly soon be visiting the prison in Haren with the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u31	Debates of the European Parliament 55009180C and Question No 55009183C by Mr Van Hecke are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u32	First of all, Minister, I would like to congratulate you on your appointment. I have a number of questions for you, but I have also seen that our agenda is very full. I therefore refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u33	I think Mrs Matz is in another committee. Mr Minister, perhaps you can answer and then she can replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u34	Thank you for the congratulations, Mrs Bury. I appreciate that very much. I hope that we will be able to work well together in the coming period. During the debate in the European Parliament on the declaration of government, you may have noted that the Prime Minister made a certain statement. I would just like to read it out: 'I attach particular importance to one element in the coalition agreement that has not been discussed. Women, girls, in our country too, are excessively exposed to violence and often to sexual violence. When we look at the statistics, we see that we are not handling them properly. The number of convictions based on rape and sexual assault is unlikely to be low. Very often women do not dare to press charges."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u35	The sound falls away from time to time. However, I am in a rather modern cabinet in the Finance Tower. That sound should be good. If you don't hear me again, you can signal it. We are fully committed to doing something about this problem. I absolutely want to make this a priority. In fact, it is very explicit in the text of the coalition agreement. Several paragraphs were devoted to this. You've been able to read that. There are also the various reports of the Supreme Court of Justice which I have read in the meantime. There are a lot of interesting suggestions in that. There is also the report to which you refer, Mrs Bury. So what am I thinking about in concrete terms? I am thinking, among other things, of better training for primary workers and police officers, but also of the important role of Care Centres after Sexual Violence. In the meantime I have also had contact with the parquet magistrate from Ghent, who is doing a lot of work on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u36	I would like to look together with the committee members at how we can implement this coalition agreement together. You have asked a number of specific questions. Firstly, am I aware of the UPR review of the UN Human Rights Council? I'm absolutely aware of it. The survey dates back to 2016. There will already be another screening in 2021, so next year. That is quite fast, which means that we will also have to switch quickly. Secondly, you have also requested figures, which I regret I do not have at my disposal. I've requested them from the Secretary of State for Gender Equality and Equality. It is about figures from the Institute for Equality between Women and Men. I'll deliver them to you and the committee as soon as I have them. Thirdly, I had prepared this point in French because Mrs Matz had also asked a question. The battle we have to fight is, of course, not a battle of the Minister alone. We will have to work together and build partnerships. There are many bodies involved, both in the federal government and in the Länder, in this fight. Cooperation will therefore be a crucial and critical factor for success in this area. Thank you for your attention on the subject. Knowing you, that won't be the first and last time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u37	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answers. I'm very glad you want to make something of this, along with all the committee members. You have just pointed out that this committee is working very well across party boundaries. So that's going to be very educational. I am also a member of the Social Emancipation Advisory Committee, where a number of hearings were held on sexual violence, partner violence and intra-family violence. All these things must be grouped together and linked together so that we can find the best solution to accompany these people to care centres throughout Flanders. There we see the problem again, however, that we have to look with the Länder to see who is responsible. For example, the Family Justice Center does not yet apply in Halle-Vilvoorde, while these matters are urgent. We must also make sure that we do not draw too much attention to each other, but that there is real work to be done and that these matters can be taken into account so that victims, both women and children, who often arrive completely exhausted when it comes to sexual and intra-family violence, are not sent from one place to another. So everything must be in these centres together: parquet, police, doctors and psychologists under one roof. Many more people will do their story in this way, and so we will get a better view of realistic figures. I am also looking forward to the figures you have requested. It is also very important to address the number of convictions. That must be enormously high, it is things that must not be tolerated. When people's integrity is touched, they often drag it along for the rest of their lives. So there is work to be done, and I certainly want to help you with that, along with the rest of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u38	Madam President, Mrs Bury, your question is important but deserves a nuanced answer. As Minister of Justice, I want justice to be done at all times. Justice has to be done and has to be seen to be done. The rules of the game must, of course, be respected, and that is only right in a state of law. There are certain consequences for non-compliance with these rules. We must be careful with the notion of procedural errors. We must avoid putting all such mistakes together. Transparency and explanation of why certain decisions are taken by certain courts are a crucial step in this process. It is true that procedural errors have sometimes had too many consequences in the past. I believe that, in recent years, this has been met, inter alia, under the impetus of the Court of Cassation, with the famous Anti-Conflict of Justice and thanks to some legislative initiatives. However, further attention needs to be paid to this issue in the reform of criminal proceedings. I would like to refer to the reform proposal presented in the Chamber, namely the proposal for reform of criminal procedure, document No. 1239/001, which thoroughly revises the rules on the admissibility of irregular evidence. You will find these reform proposals in Articles 8 to 14 of the bill. They will form the basis for me for further discussion in Parliament. In that provision, the first step is to move away from the system whereby the investigating courts, i.e. boardroom and chamber of indictment, supervise the regularity of justice and carry out a purification of the nullities. If I am not mistaken, you have taken your text and the story to which you refer from an article by Gazet van Antwerpen. I have not read the judgment of the Chamber of Inclamation itself, but with that proposal the monitoring of irregularities or irregularities will be carried out by the Court of Justice and no longer by Council Chamber and Chamber of Inclamation. The court is better placed to assess the consequences of the irregular evidence. The rules on the admissibility of irregular evidence are reviewed, as they are currently enshrined in Article 32 of the previous Title of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In this new scheme, a three-level step system is chosen. The first level concerns irregularities leading to the compulsory exclusion of evidence. This concerns, for example, torture or inhumane treatment and cases where a parole magistrate exercises the powers of the investigating judge. The second level is the irregularities which, in principle, lead to exclusion, but where the evidence can still be accepted by the courts, when it is socially justified in a rule of law. The third level is the limited procedural errors, the ones you're probably referring to. The irregular evidence is admitted in principle, unless that would affect the integrity of the justice system. This reform proposal, which forms the basis of the discussion, strikes a balance between, on the one hand, guaranteeing fundamental rights, including the right to a fair trial, and, on the other hand, the negative consequences of over-relation of irregularities committed during the collection of evidence in criminal matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u39	Thank you for your reply, Minister. With regard to the reform of criminal proceedings and the documents that you cite and which will be called into question in committee, I look forward to working with you on this. I hope that we can ensure that minor procedural errors no longer have such far-reaching consequences. This would certainly improve the credibility of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u40	I'm glad you've seen and read that you've brought an experienced expert into your cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u41	I'm glad you're excited. We're just as excited, but he doesn't realize how much work he's getting. He'll be a little less excited. You are, of course, talking about Paul Van Tigchelt, who is indeed parquet magistraat in Antwerp and who knows the situation very well. That is one of the most important reasons why I have committed him to the cabinet, to control the situation in Antwerp, for the benefit of the city administration there and of the people who are active. The drug problem and the prosecution's plea for more people and resources are, of course, well known to me. Of course, we also provide more resources for justice. It goes without saying that I will engage in dialogue with the various actors of justice. Not until yesterday, for example, I saw Eric Snoeck, the Director-General of the judicial police. You know that it plays a very important role in the struggle we are fighting. Of course, he has also asked for more people and more resources. In the EUR 250 million package foreseen for Justice, we will certainly make room for that. I've also been in contact with Frédéric Van Leeuw, to which you refer. We'll soon be able to switch. We will therefore take measures at human and financial level to ensure an effective approach to criminal organisations. In the coalition agreement, the government is committed to the fight against drug gangs and international drug trafficking. For this purpose, it says literally, the five major judicial boards in the federal police force will develop and strengthen specialized and multidisciplinary teams. To this end, specialised judicial researchers will be mobilised and the approach of the relevant services will be coordinated. Then you asked a question about sharing data with the tax authorities. First of all, the Code of Criminal Procedure states that the King's Attorney must inform the Minister of Finance and his services of the indications of tax fraud revealed by a criminal investigation and then provide access and copy of the file, unless ongoing criminal investigations could be jeopardised. Then there is a second provision. Tax authorities shall provide information on fiscal criminal law. So it goes in the two directions. The tax administration is obliged to communicate to the judicial authorities the facts of which the investigation reveals signs of serious and tax fraud. For any legislative amendment to which you refer, I will, of course, enter into dialogue with the various actors within Justice, including the judicial system, in order to get a good overview of the specific challenges and needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u42	Madam President, Minister, first of all, it is not an easy problem at all. There's a lot of money involved. It's a billion-dollar business. We see that top people from the upper world are also involved. So it is a very difficult problem. I am very pleased to hear that you have already been in contact with Mr Snoeck and certainly with the federal prosecutor, Mr Frédéric Van Leeuw. That maintenance is important as well as the examination and examination of what can be done correctly, in order to join forces. The resources that will have to be thrown into it are also important. I know that there is a shortage of resources in every area. We're gonna have to scratch hard to get our cut. However, if it is about the whole drug business and the roll-up of such cases, sufficient resources must be used to achieve some results in this respect. I am also pleased that you will be looking with us at the amendment of the law to deal with that and other matters with the tax authorities and that you agree that we still need to optimise the whole matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u43	Madam President, I am delighted that many Members have referred to the question put in writing. That will give us a more interesting debate. Mrs. Van Bossuyt, it's good to see you here. I also met Jaak Raes yesterday. I've met a lot of people and talked about that problem. I will not go into detail, because we have to be careful when we talk about the security of the state. The problem of Chinese espionage is particularly topical and real. What you're saying wasn't just picked out of a newspaper, it's unfortunately harsh reality. This is followed up by the Security of the State in view of the legally established interests which the Security of the State must protect. It does so with the necessary expertise. In this case, it concerns the internal security of the state and the continuation of the democratic and constitutional order, the external security of the state and international relations, and our scientific and economic potential. These are the three dimensions that are considered: domestic, foreign and economic potential. Of course, the security of the state is watching over this. You have asked a number of very specific questions. For example, how many people do that? Of course, you didn't ask: who do that? I understand. Also from where they do it. You know I can't answer that at all. When we deal with this question, there are others listening. You'll probably know that and realize that. We must therefore be particularly careful about this. But know that the investments in Justice also explicitly state that investments will be made in the security of the State. Yesterday, among other things, with the administrator-general, Jaak Raes, I crossed over his desiderata. We will take this into account as far as possible. I am well aware of the importance of this organisation for the safety of our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u44	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. I understand that you cannot name and name people, but I believe that you would be able to answer some of my questions perfectly without compromising safety. For example, I asked you if there is a specific service within the security of the state that succeeds Chinese espionage? I believe that there is no danger of replying to that. I also asked how many people that service then exists. I have received reports that one person is dealing with this within the security of the State. That seems to me very little for such a major problem, and I would therefore very much like to check it out. I see you shaking your head, but these questions were perfectly answerable without releasing information that could be dangerous. Maybe you can still answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u45	It's not one person, it's several people working on it, but I can't tell you exactly how many they are. Furthermore, there is sufficient expertise to fight this battle, not only within our organisation but also with colleagues from other countries. There was a question from a colleague of yours about the situation of the man being prosecuted in England at that famous think tank. You were able to read that in the paper. So we are not alone, we are working with other intelligence services. I cannot tell you exactly how many people are working on this, but I can confirm that there is sufficient expertise in the organisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u46	I myself referred to that director of that think tank. I hope that the people working on this will be able to specialise sufficiently. (...) not always aware of being. I'm glad to hear you're making an extra bet on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u47	You refer to the rulings of two juvenile judges in BRUZZ. My administration monitors monthly cooperation with the support service of the College of Courts and Courts. That college was created in 2014 and represents the magistrate in our country. Mrs Fabienne Bayard is the chairman of and Mr Bart Willocx, from Antwerp and chairman of the first instance, is the Vice-President. I met them two days ago. They periodically submit job vacancy plans in which they identify the effective needs of the different courts. At the end of October, I expect a new job vacancy plan from that support service. In addition, I would like to stress that the government provides for a much-needed injection for Justice. In fact, the coalition agreement states that, in order to guarantee security and the rule of law, we will have to invest in computerisation and buildings, but also in personnel. When allocating or allocating resources to the services, we will have to take account of staff needs. Juvenile judges are, of course, an important link, given the problems of youth violence and youth violence. This must be dealt with immediately. A consultation is planned between the Youth Magistrate and the representatives of the sector's community, both on the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking sides. It discusses the structural problems and problems associated with the application of the legislation. The point that you specifically mention was put on the agenda of one of the next meetings. An evaluation of the decrees must, of course, be carried out at the initiative of the relevant ministers of the communities. It's not for me to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u48	I see you're busy meeting everyone. I'm glad to hear that. It is good that you will be able to look at the job vacancy plan. My question was a triptych. First of all, we see a lack of staff, for which you refer to the job vacancy plan. I have also raised complaints from juvenile judges that they do not have a functioning coffee machine, that they have to buy a book they want to consult, and that they have to clean the toilet themselves. I'm not making these things up. There will be more work to be done than just the layout of a job vacancy plan to keep them. Under the previous minister, four people have been trained. Meanwhile, however, people have already left again. There's more to it than that. Secondly, it is good that you have placed the consultation on the agenda for the implementation of the legislation. We see that young people from different regions involved in the same facts are treated differently. One gets locked up, the other doesn't, one gets a month, the other gets three months. That's unworkable. Thirdly, the right of juvenile delinquency is not our competence, but we still need to work with the communities and the states to see how we can achieve a much better follow-up of those young people. These are not even young people who fall into the category of of offenders at first, but they are young people who do something and get a gas fine. Juvenile judges don't see the whole gas fine system. One may have to deal with young people who have been in a system of mischief for years, going from evil to worse. The moment they come into the hands of juvenile judges, it is already far too late. So we need to get a look at the lighter infringements, so that we can intervene much earlier. So consultation is certainly important, but also prevention. We must take the cow directly by the horns and, of course, provide much more resources. Finally, we read that a number of young people were arrested after a video was spread of a boy who was bullied and beaten. The question then is whether they can hold on to it and apply it quickly. Can we give them a proper punishment, or are they free the day after?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u49	That was in Puurs. I contacted the parquet magistraat immediately. Those kids are under arrest. They were able to identify them quite quickly. They're gonna be arraigned by the Juvenile Court. There was a grown-up. That'll be for the investigating judge. It's important to get to that soon. It's more than that. It is also about the preliminaries of young people. Apparently, both the perpetrators and the victim were known to the police. These are not easy situations and prevention certainly plays a role there, as you yourself said.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u50	Madam President, Minister, I am not simply referring to my text, because it is far too important. In 2014 we were pleased with the opening of the buildings of the parquet in Halle-Vilvoorde, a former state guard barracks and an old rest house. A new building was announced, which was then promised to be there in 2017. In 2017, it was repeated that there would be a new building. Now, however, in 2020, there is still no new construction. The opening of those buildings of the parquet was a start, but we still do not see a plan for our own court for the Halle-Vilvoorde department. That trial should still be held in Brussels. The new coalition agreement doesn't mention it. As a result, we are still dependent on the Brussels courts. That's not an option. After all, the Brussels judges are far less aggressive, because they are not in touch with our region. The criminals also very often choose Brussels trial. The prosecutor, Mrs Van Wymersch, has also confirmed that she would do the same, because it would be foolish not to ask. Such an application shall not be made immediately. First, the full investigation is carried out by Flemings. A language change is requested at the end of the application. This language change takes time and money, elements are lost, a new investigating judge is appointed and so on. It is only obvious that Halle-Vilvoorde, like all other judicial districts, is being brought into alignment. That way language shopping is stopped. By the way, what the prosecutor says, and what I can confirm, has nothing to do with flamingantism. Common sense must prevail. Halle-Vilvoorde must be a judicial arrondissement like the other arrondissements of Flanders. In a second point, I would like to return to the two parquet buildings that I mentioned at the beginning of my interview. The parquet is still divided into two parquet buildings. The files are just on the ground. In a way, the situation is unsafe. Files can just be grabbed with them. In the old retirement home, by the way, the police don't always come in uniform, so as not to scare the old folks off. I read that in the old retirement home there can be a maximum of seven people meeting together in a room, which is a figure pre-corona. These things can't be done. We really need to know, with a specific timeline, when there will be a new justice site. Mr. Secretary, are you planning a meeting with the King's Attorney, who really screams murder and fire? What about the alignment of Halle-Vilvoorde with the other judicial districts? What about the trial in its own courts, which means that it should no longer be held in Brussels? In connection with the new construction project, when will this site be created?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u51	Hal Vilvorde's public prosecutor's office is made up of bilingual Francophone substitutes seconded from the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office, who account for 20% of the public prosecutor's office. It is also composed of a third of Dutch-speaking substitutes who have knowledge of French.A balance has therefore been provided in order to process the files at best according to the language of the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u52	4. Does it support the idea of allowing language change from the outset of criminal proceedings, as is provided for in civil cases, for all defendants domiciled in the Brussels district, in order to avoid translation costs slowing down proceedings and increasing judicial errors?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u53	As Mrs Bury said, the 35 municipalities of Halle-Vilvoorde are still governed by law in Brussels. In 2012 it was decided to set up a private parquet in Halle-Vilvoorde and separate the prosecution policy from Brussels. That parquet works very well, but faces a number of specific challenges. First of all, the building or rather the buildings, because I've been on the spot the parquet is spread over two locations. One of the buildings is an old retirement home. That is an older building that has been completely completed and in the largest Chamber we cannot therefore meet with seven people in corona conditions in normal circumstances. There are a number of practical problems, but the building is not safe either: one can simply enter it as if one enters the rest home. A new building has been promised in Asse. It is a good thing that this has been promised, but we already know that this building will be far too small. It is, of course, regrettable that people already know this and do not offer a solution to it. When is the completion of that building scheduled? What is going to be done about the capacity problem, because we already know it? Will the antenna post of the Halle-Vilvoorde Courthouse also be housed there? After all, it would be a good thing that in the Flemish government agreement we promised to establish a fully-fledged Halle-Vilvoorde justice house on the same site. So it is a well-functioning court - that is about the prosecutions, but the real problem is that the court in Brussels must be able to proceed to effective punishment. Firstly, we know that Brussels crime is different from that of Halle-Vilvoorde and that the Brussels judges have no connection with the crime that is taking place in our region. Secondly, there is the problem of the division of staff in Brussels. With the sixth state reform in 2012, the Dutch-speaking courts were already underwhelmed with regard to staff, because this division was made on the basis of wrong figures at the time, and afterward a temporary transfer of staff from the Dutch-speaking Registry to the French-speaking Registry has been carried out in the civil courts, but that temporary situation has been going on for five years. Finally, there is the problem of the special language regime in the Brussels district where the language of the criminal case can be changed several times during the course of the investigation. A new investigating judge must be appointed each time and must re-enter. There are also costs for translation and it is absolutely not efficient to work in this way, which opens the door for even more procedural errors. Criminals also know that it is easier to change language there. From the start of the investigation, it is possible to opt for French-speaking justice, after which the Brussels judges who act more laxly against crime committed in our region will come into the hands of the Brussels courts. Mr President-in-Office, will you put an end to the misconception in which Halle-Vilvoorde can investigate crimes but cannot punish them? Will you put an end to the situation in which Halle-Vilvoorde does have a court but no courts yet? Will a proposal be made to make it impossible to change language frequently into a criminal record in the monolingual Halle-Vilvoorde? Will you end language shopping within the English language Halle-Vilvoorde? Criminals can deliberately opt for a lax French-speaking Brussels judge for their crimes in Halle-Vilvoorde.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u54	I will answer partially in French. I took the oath on October 1st. One of the first people who contacted me in the evening via text was Mrs Van Wymersch. She asked to explain to her sortie on the website of the VRT, where she had put her plea. I promised her I'd sit with her. I have not yet done so, because I have been told that I must respect the hierarchy of the court. That means first the College of Attorney General and then the public prosecutors. I respect that, but I'm sure I'll be in touch with her. There are two issues to which you refer. The first is the housing of the parquet in Asse. I've been in touch with the Government of the Buildings. It is absolutely intended to build a new courthouse on the old site of Asphaltco near the railway station, which will host, among other things, the parquet, the labor auditorate, the peace court and if possible also a part of the FPS Finance and the justice house. A number of administrative steps have already been taken in this dossier, and I have pointed out to the Government of the Buildings that this is a priority for me, given the lamentable situation there. The Buildings Control has informed me that the start of the works is currently foreseen for 2022, and I hope that we will be able to do so. The second issue concerns the situation of the public prosecutor and the courts. As you yourself said, Madam President, decisions have been taken in this area in the context of the sixth state reform. The courts were then doubled in a Dutch-speaking and French-speaking court and the parquets split into the parquet of Brussels and the parquet of Halle-Vilvoorde. My predecessor Koen Geens has not taken any initiative on all of this. If I want to take an initiative in this, I must do so in consultation with the various partners of the judicial order, and I must also take into account the legal and constitutional framework currently in place. As you know, Mrs Rohonyi, the previous Minister of Justice has not taken any initiatives in this area. As the current Minister of Justice, I believe it is important to begin with a dialogue with my various partners in the judiciary. However, I would like to refer to Article 157a of the Constitution, and I quote: 'The essential elements of the reform relating to the use of languages in court cases in the judicial district of Brussels, as well as the corresponding aspects relating to the public prosecutor's office, seat and jurisdiction, cannot be changed except by law with the majority laid down in Article 4 last paragraph'. That means that we can only change that by a special majority. A special majority is required, i.e. a majority in both linguistic groups and two thirds of the vote. This means that an amendment requires a majority of the Dutch and French speakers. The situation is next. I am not telling you anything new, but I will say it anyway, even for the many listeners who follow this committee. The language used in the arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde is different for French speakers than in other places in our country. You know that very well. If, for example, a foreign language is prosecuted in Kortrijk or in Aalst, he can either ask for a translation or refer to a court in the French-speaking area. For French speakers in Halle-Vilvoorde, the rules are more flexible. They are part of the reform that was carried out at the time, with the doubling of the court and the splitting of the courthouse. I would like to ask my colleagues in the government who are responsible for Institutional Affairs, a Dutch-speaking and French-speaking, to look at this dossier and see if a balance can be struck in order to find a two-thirds majority, a special majority, and thus the majority in the two language groups. It's not a simple matter. I feel confident from Mrs Van Wymersch that she does not see it as a Community matter. For me it is not immediate either, but there is a Community aspect to it, because we have to work by a special majority. I'll bring it up. I will also work on it, but I cannot promise you anything in that regard, for which I apologise.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u55	Minister, I am very pleased that you are going to raise it and that you are going to respect the hierarchy and have a meeting with everyone. I hope you're gonna do more than mention it. I really hope that you will play a leading role there and not just sit down when you get bad news or there is some French-speaking group that likes things to stay the way they are. The following is very important to quote from the judicial order: we see very clearly that things are as they are now, with language shopping and so on, there is a real problem. It takes a lot to get those cases back to the French language section. Elements are being lost. A new investigating judge will then be placed on the case which does not know at all what it is about. That goes way beyond the language. That's about the credibility of justice. We must ensure that all this can be done smoothly and that the people are properly tried by judges in our own territory. What was agreed before and how fatal that all ended is not our problem right now. We need to make sure that things improve in the future. I really hope that you will take a leading role there. Then I come to that particular majority. That is, of course, extremely important. You say it yourself, there must be a two-thirds majority and then a majority in each language group. There is a majority on the French-speaking side with your government. I am sure that you will get the Flemish majority, which you do not have, from us and from N-VA in any case if this will create a fully-fledged judicial district in Halle-Vilvoorde. I'm sure of that. So work on that. In connection with the parquet, I see in front of the parquet site 2022. I hope that time limit will be maintained and that it will not be moved back to the future. There was a colleague who said this site will be too small. You gave a whole list of all those who need to be housed there and that you had watched it with the Government of the Buildings. Was there any mention of whether that building is still large enough? Finally, I have tabled a motion of recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u56	Minister, thank you for clarifying things and saying that the priority must be to fill the legal framework for magistrates. I shall still be surprised to see that certain things are pointed out by certain parties, in the context of the functioning of our justice system, no doubt for political and Community reasons. If we do this, we have to point out everything that is wrong and not certain things because it meets certain electoral interests. I have to say that. For example, the bilingualism requirement of all Brussels magistrates poses a real problem in filling the legal framework of magistrates and plays a role in the backlog of judicial proceedings at the level of Brussels courts and tribunals. To return to requests for a change of language of procedure, yes, such requests may be problematic in terms of backlog and translation errors that may be harmful to the rights of litigants. But the proposal put forward today by the prosecutor of the King of Hal-Vilvorde violates the rights of the defence. It's not nothing. Indeed, even if this measure were to be "compensated" by the presence of an interpreter, it would represent a cost and would never compensate for the denial of the rights of the defence; that would not be sufficient in any case. Finally, minister, I would have liked you to condemn the insinuations of some. When it is said that some judges, in this case French-speaking judges, are more lax, we cannot let go. That's unfounded. There's nothing to prove it. Moreover, this legitimizes the will of some to regionalize our justice. I think your role, as federal Minister of Justice, is to be the guarantor of federal jurisdiction. If there are language changes in the head of some litigants, it is by no means to be treated favorably by some magistrates. It is simply to be tried in their language, to understand the language of the proceedings that concerns them. It is a fundamental right and must be intransigent as to its respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u57	I'm glad to hear that the Attorney General of Halle-Vilvoorde contacted you immediately and proactively. Maybe I didn't expect it to be any different. I know she's really going for her own courts and the amendment of the language law. I'm also glad that you will make that new site a priority. I'll also ask this question to your board of directors of the Buildings. There is a real need for good choices to be made in the early stages, so that everyone can live there. Mrs Rohonyi, this is absolutely not a Community file. It's been worn very widely in our region. The district attorney wishes it. Motions have been accepted in almost all municipal councils of the 35 municipalities, almost everywhere unanimously. It is wide, above party boundaries, worn. A motion has been accepted in the county council. In the police forces in our region, the frustrations are great because they are always faced with the French-speaking investigating judge. It is not at all a violation of the rights of the defence as not every suspect is originally French-speaking. However, many gangs are circulating in our region and they also need an interpreter at the plenary session. We have always opposed the sixth state reform. The parties who then cooperated in this process committed the judicial district through the essential elements of the Constitution. I hope that you will contact your colleague from Institutional Affairs so that preparations can be made to resolve this problem. It's very important to our region and every victim in our region.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u58	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Katleen Bury and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Katleen Bury and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice with responsibility for the North Sea, - having regard to the government agreement in which the government commits itself to the reform of the institutions "to make an important contribution to increasing efficiency and deepening democratic state structures" and to "the pursuit of homogeneous powers and efficiency," - having regard to the emergency cry of the King's Attorney of the Halle-Vilvoorde District Court on the structural unworkability of the way in which Halle-Vilvoorde law is to be spoken in the jurisdiction; asks the government - to hear the Prosecutor of the Halle-Vilvoorde District Court about this problem; - take initiatives in the short term to remedy the bottlenecks raised by the King's Attorney; - take the necessary steps for the further division of the judicial district of Brussels by making the jurisdiction of Halle-Vilvoorde a fully-fledged Dutch-speaking judicial district.' A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Katleen Bury and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Katleen Bury and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice, responsible for the North Sea, - in view of the government agreement in which the government undertakes, with regard to institutional reform, "to make an important contribution during the next legislature... to increasing the efficiency and deepening of the democratic principles of state structures", on the understanding that the search for "homogeneity of powers and efficiency" is a guiding element in this respect; - in the light of the alarm of the Prosecutor of the King of the Prosecutor's Office in Hal-Vilvorde concerning the structural impracticability of the manner in which justice is to be done in the jurisdiction of Hal-Vilvorde; asks the government - to hear the Prosecutor of the King of the Prosecutor's Office in Hal-Vilvorde on this issue; - to take initiatives in the near future in order to remedy the problems raised by the King's prosecutor; - to take the necessary steps towards the further division of the judicial district of Brussels by making Hal-Vilvorde a full Dutch-speaking judicial district." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels, Claire Hugon, Laurence Zanchetta and Nathalie Gilson and Mr Koen Geens and Mr Khalil Aouasti. A simple motion was tabled by Katja Gabriëls, Claire Hugon, Laurence Zanchetta and Nathalie Gilson and MM. Koen Geens et Khalil Aouasti. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u59	I will begin by congratulating the minister on his new duties. I am glad that an experienced man is at the head of such a sensitive department. I will not bother him often in the Committee on Justice because it is my colleague Vanessa Matz who is responsible for monitoring these matters. However, I continue to monitor intelligence and terrorism files.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u60	You don't bother me at all!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u61	Minister, in his final report, the Commission of Inquiry into the terrorist attacks of 2016 called for an increase in the resources and staff of the intelligence services. According to the information available to me, almost all the additional budget allocated to the State Security since then (budget amounting to €20 million) is used to pay the SMALS, which is responsible for drawing up a new IT platform, which is also under contract with other federal public administrations or services. At the time of writing these lines, it appears that no concrete progress has been identified in the area of security computerization. What, then, could this budget be used for? With regard to staffing, the Deputy Head of Security stated at his hearing by the Board of Inquiry that, in order to deal with threats, it would be necessary to double the staff cadre. The 2019 Annual Report also recalls this need. However, the trend of external service agents has been declining for years: between 2014 and 2020, there are 10% fewer staff on the ground, despite the attacks of 2016. I recall that these people on the ground are responsible for investigating as closely as possible the risks of radicalisation and terrorism. In its personnel plan 2021, the Sûreté had originally planned the hiring of 75 new external service personnel. Unfortunately, we have learned that only 25 new recruits will be hired immediately, including the replacement of fifteen scheduled departures. So we are talking about ten new full-time equivalents, an increase of 2.8%. We are therefore far from doubling the need to deal with threats. What are you planning to remedy this worrying situation? I see that my second question is attached to the first. This second question concerns, more specifically, the field officers of the State Security. In its final report, the Commission on Attacks also recommended an increase in the means of investigation on the ground, i.e. not only the agents but also the full range of technical and human resources to enable adequate and indispensable information to be collected. The Commission recommended that intelligence services be provided with additional means to enable them to enter sensitive environments. In concrete terms, this amounts to more financial means to pay for the sources, an easier use of fictitious identities (the existing tool seems, in fact, unusable in practice) as well as anonymous means of payment linked to such identities. The same applies to support teams responsible, for example, for covering entries or securing contacts with sources. Currently, field officers are increasingly forced to leave a digital loan when paying for services essential to their business (reservation and payment of safe houses, telephone charges for their operational telephones, various payments to sources, etc.).). Investigators, for their part, still do not have access to a multitude of secure databases necessary for their investigative work. It is therefore clear that this is a whole series of constraints in terms of means, means of action, capacity for field workers who have not yet been resolved in 2020, although they have been identified for a number of years. What are your concrete plans, Minister, to remedy this situation and to support field officers in their daily work?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u62	Madam President, Minister, welcome to this committee. I'm running out of time with the Home Affairs Commission. I therefore refer to my written record and will be replicating later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u63	Madam President, Mrs Soors, over the last four years after the attacks, various ICT investments have been made by my predecessor in the security of the State. That was also an explicit question from the Committee of Inquiry. There was first and foremost the participation in the purchase of super software for the processing of social media. That's what happened with the FedPol and the CGVS. There have been specific operational investments to support data collection and research. The State Security then started work aimed at a global overhaul of its ICT and information management systems, with the aim of reaching the level of its European partner services. For this she has identified two projects, the A and B projects. Projects A and B are comprehensive and consist of expanding and strengthening the networks, developing a data centre, storage capacity, PCs and screens, developing a new ICT environment, specialised software to process and investigate data and security ICT. Both projects are essential for the core tasks of State Security, which are the treatment of information and the cycle of processing from analysis to intelligence. Since 2016, investments totalling 22;5 million euros have been made for these two projects. Of course, the State's security makes use of the law on public procurement, but when circumstances permit it and for the protection of the fundamental interests of the State and missions requiring the greatest discretion one can also use the procedure of authorisation through negotiation without publication. The association Smals was appointed for the development of projects A and B. The security of the State, together with the European and Western partner services, has carried out a benchmarking exercise which makes it possible to define exactly the necessary solutions. In addition to Smalls, the private sector was also consulted: the well-known computer company SAS, the very well-known American company Palantir, and IBM, but eventually it was chosen to create a system over which the State's security itself has the ultimate control rather than an integrated commercial solution. With these ICT efforts, the State Security wants to meet the explicit expectations of the Committee of Inquiry. I quote the committee: 'The Committee of Inquiry calls for further standardisation and improvement of the quality of data and the improvement of the information process, both within the services and between the different services.' Indeed, from 2014 onwards, the number of employees decreased for a number of years. After the 2016 attacks, the State Security was able to count on additional recruitments. This is also continued under the new federal government agreement, which provides for an explicit budget injection for State Security and for the reinforcement of staff. Yesterday, I met Mr. Jaak Raes, the deputy head of State Security. At the end of that conversation, he gave us his budgetary wishes. They are ready and we will see how we can adapt and realise them. Mr Dallemagne, you referred to the figure of 75 employees. I'm told that we have to nuance because it was a reflection on the part of the State Security. It wasn't a completely finished exercise. This was prior to the finalisation of the government agreement. As I said yesterday, Mr Raes provided us with other figures. Mr Dallemagne, your question relates more specifically to the use of State Security applications. It would be inappropriate to provide further details on these methods and to clarify whether or not they are used in practice. This could be to the advantage of the targets that intelligence services must follow. A number of amendments were made to the Intelligence and Security Services Act in 2017. These changes have created a legal basis for implementing a number of these investigative methods. The State Security is currently working hard to be able to use them effectively on the ground. With regard to access to a number of security-related databases, it can be said that the first legislative steps have also been taken. Legally, State Security now has access to, for example, the ANPR database, the Central Arms Register and the General Police Database, the ANG-databank. The latter is a real milestone in the collaboration between the police and the State Security. We are also referring to the new federal coalition agreement, which states that the information position of the intelligence services and the OCAM will be strengthened. For example, a legal framework will be created for infiltration by agents and informants.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u64	Minister, thank you very much for these answers. I read between the lines that a series of efforts are under way. I also understand that the information I had is not wrong: in the field of computerisation, we work hard, we do tests, we consult a lot of people. I see that in the field, in any case, our agents still do not have the means to work with these new platforms and devices in the field. I therefore draw your attention to the fact that this is indeed an important issue. As far as the means are concerned, as a hypothesis you refer to a number of 75 agents.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u65	Mr Dallemagne, I can't hear you anymore. [[Technical problems]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u66	I'm continuing, Mr. Minister. As far as the means are concerned, Mr Raes has expressed to you his budgetary wishes, as you have called them. He also referred to a triple of these means. The number of 75 new agents you are referring to is very little in relation to the real needs of the intelligence services. I would remind you that at the time of the hearings in the committee of inquiry, all the participants agreed that if we were to have very little money, it was up to the intelligence services to devote them. These resources have not yet been allocated to the intelligence services, but I am counting on you to remedy them. I would also like to ask you on a regular basis about the matter, because I believe that is essential. We know that the threat, whether radical, Islamist, Chinese or otherwise, is an extremely important problem. I have recently been told that there are more Russian, Chinese, Moroccan and Turkish agents in Brussels than state security agents, and I am keeping this information from a reliable source. This is a matter of concern to us as to our ability to deal with very concrete threats in our territory. So I am really counting on you to speed up significantly the upgrading of our resources, because we are far from our neighbours in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u67	Mr President, as far as the rules of procedure are concerned, will you continue to ask questions until the end of the debate? Or do you have to leave early?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u68	Madam Secretary, I am at the disposal of the committee for all questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u69	My question is about a conflict that seems to exist today at State Security. This conflict pits field officers, who collect information in sensitive environments, against the leadership of the Sûreté. In question, the reform of the statutes of these field officers, which seems to have taken place without their involvement. It also seems that this reform was carried out without the unions being informed of the progress of the work. They were not informed of this until 24 July, in the midst of the VOCID crisis, when the text had just been approved at first reading by the Council of Ministers. Today, finally approved and published in the Monitor, this text concerning external agents erases the differences between internal services - mainly analytical services - and external services. However, there are objective differences between them. I would point out that the external services are responsible for collecting information on the ground, in sensitive environments - and in security conditions, in particular, always sensitive. Why have they not been consulted or involved in the process and in the preparatory working groups for this reform? Why is the risk they face not taken into account? What do you plan for them? More generally, what kind of intelligence service do we want to deal with growing threats?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u70	Mr Dallemagne, the recently approved royal decree was drawn up in accordance with all applicable procedures. I'll explain. First, the unions were officially informed in July 2018 and were able to learn about the draft royal decree and the draft report to the King. These were drawn up in response to the recommendation of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, which you are very familiar with, to move towards a common statute. In order to achieve this harmonization in practice, the Directorate of State Security is also working on a guidance document to define personnel policy for the coming years. It will include, among other things, new functional profiles for employees of the State Security Service. Both this vision and the function profiles were presented to the unions and discussed with them several times. I give you the dates: December 6, 2018, April 1, 2019, July 18, 2019 and September 5, 2019. The completion of this project remains a priority for management. The texts defined served as the basis for the projects which were approved at first reading in the Council of Ministers on 24 July, as you have indicated. Following this decision, a meeting of the External Services Sector Committee was held on 7 August, 18 August and 20 August. In the course of these discussions, the trade unions had the opportunity to provide us with their comments, which were forwarded to the Council of Ministers. The procedure culminated in the final approval of the royal decree by the Council of Ministers on 18 September. The order was published in the Moniteur belge on 1 October. In response to your question about my intentions for external services, I can inform you that the Royal Decree is a first step towards a unified status for all employees of the State Security. The salary scales of those who operate in the field are significantly higher than those of their colleagues in other services. Several other benefits were also maintained for these same employees. These adjusted scales and benefits are intended to compensate for the risks involved, as you say in your second question. The government agreement already provides for the creation of a basic status for the OCAM, the SGRS and the Sûreté de l'Etat. This new status may, if necessary, be more responsive to the risk profile of certain functions in intelligence operations. After consultation with my firm, as well as with all stakeholders, i.e. staff, staff representatives and management, the State Security will soon agree on a method that will guarantee everyone's involvement in the process of achieving a single status for the OCAM, the SGRS and the State Security.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u71	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand your willingness to have a unified status for all of our intelligence services. This was one of the Commission's recommendations on terrorist attacks. I hope we succeed, because he's a bit of the Loch Ness monster. I think we've been talking about it for four years. I would be very pleased if you could bring this matter to a conclusion in the near future. With regard to the specific status of field staff, you tell us that there have been a series of consultation meetings. What I hear is that no agreement has been reached. There had been meetings, but there was no agreement; and suddenly, a proposal was imposed and was cast in the form of a royal decree, when there was disagreement. Today, I hear that the staff is demotivated. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are many State Security officers who end up leaving State Security very quickly because they do not feel sufficiently motivated, especially because of the status issues. It's a real problem. I said that in my previous question. There are indeed too many staff leaving. This poses a problem of continuity of our intelligence services, of the quality of our intelligence. I would like to draw your attention to the need to improve this status and the quality of working conditions within the State Security. It is a service essential to our freedoms, democracy and security.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u72	Madam Chair, Minister, when you were presiding over the Climate Commission, I had become accustomed to admiring the decor of Courtrai City Hall behind you. It must be noted that today's decor is more austere. I would nevertheless like to congratulate you on your appointment as a member of the government. I will start my question with a scoop, Minister: the Verviers courthouse has been in a deplorable state for too many years. Last June, I welcomed the provisional reception of the construction of the Prince of Wales Building announced by your predecessor, Mr Geens, who has since hosted the Labour Court, the Labour Auditorate and the two cantons of the Verviers Peace Justice. Phases 3 and 4 of the overall renovation project now remain, namely, the restoration of the historic building and its extension. However, the Communications Officer of the Régie des Bâtiments recently estimated that this project could take 15 years and that it would be linked to the results of the comprehensive study to be carried out on this subject, this study being itself subject to the conclusions of the general programme of Verviers' needs for justice which is currently being prepared at the SPF Justice. The Régie also reportedly established contacts as part of a project to rehabilitate an urban wasteland located on Rue Victor Besme, on the outskirts of the city. This project includes the development of some 2,000 m2 of office space. It comes to my mind that the promoter would like to welcome the entire activities of the courthouse there, which would mean the departure of one of its most important actors from the city centre. Among the arguments put forward would include the guarantee to maintain the presence of these services in Verviers, implying that they could eventually take the way to Liège. In other words, according to the promoter, either the court moves to the building it is about to renovate or it will go to Liège. So you will understand my concern. Minister, what is the status of Verviers' general justice agenda? Has the FPS Justice been informed of plans to transfer to Victor Besme Street? Are they real or is it a rumor? What about the alleged desire to relocate the Vervieto justice centre to Liège? Is this an unfounded rumor?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u73	Thank you for your congratulations, Mr. Ben Achour. I inquired with the Régie des Bâtiments and the SPF Justice in order to be able to answer you. A needs assessment project for the premises was carried out by the Justice FPS in full collaboration with the judicial authorities, to define a real estate strategy for all the judicial services of Verviers. On the basis of this programme, different scenarios have been studied, of which I will read and discuss with you if you wish. To date, I can assure you that no decision has been made. So I can't tell you about your second question – the transfer to Victor Besme Street – or the third – the transfer of the justice pole to Liège.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u74	Thank you, Minister. It reassures me that no decision has yet been made. I hear your proposal to consider all of this in consultation, and I welcome your invitation. You were until a little bourgmestre of a city of a size comparable to that of Verviers and you know how important the stakes of the vitality of the city centres are. If we want to save our cities, we must also maintain as many services as possible. The services of justice are obviously vital in this regard. I will not fail to resume contact with you to continue the reflection together as you have invited me to do, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u75	Madam President, I would like to make a small correction. I found that Mr. Ben Achour made comparisons between Courtrai and Verviers. It is true that the city of Verviers is more beautiful than Courtrai but it is a little smaller. It seems to me that Verviers has 28,000 inhabitants against 77,000 for Courtrai.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u76	Minister, I have to correct you. We have 56,000 inhabitants. Verviers is the third city in the province of Liège, after Liège and Seraing. Chief town of borough to never despise, please, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u77	Please excuse me. You're from Verviers, Mr. Ben Achour?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u78	Of course!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u79	I didn't know. My apologies!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u80	Born and raised, as they say in English!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u81	All right. Thank you!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u82	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55009453C and 55009459C by Mrs Soors are converted into written questions. Mr Cogolati is not present for his question No. 55009472C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u83	Mr. Secretary, congratulations on your appointment. I didn't think I'd see you so much anymore, but we're back here. Criminal investigation is often helped by traces that are left digitally. Now the investigators are somewhat concerned, because the data retention law is being challenged by Europe, when they need that research material. Where does Europe really see the problem? What's going on, anyway? Isn't that how other European countries work? How do you view that? What do you intend to do? Would you like to make another attempt so that investigators can actually make use of that data? What are your intentions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u84	Wasn't there a question from Mrs Bury about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u85	It's not on my list.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u86	Indeed, on 6 October, the European Court of Justice delivered a judgment requiring electronic communications service providers to transmit or retain traffic data and location data in general, without distinction, with a view to combating crime, in breach of European law. Although it is in line with expectations that our Constitutional Court will follow the reasoning of the European Court, I would like to point out that the Belgian law has not yet been destroyed. Therefore, there is no impact on ongoing dossiers. In addition to the data retention obligation, Belgian legislation also contains provisions on strictly limited access to the stored data. With regard to the question of possible repairs, I can tell you that we will not wait for the ruling of the Constitutional Court. A working group was set up to examine the court's ruling and to work out possible solutions, in consultation with the minister responsible for electronic communications. I am aware that this is not the first time that we have to repair this legislation. This is going to be a very difficult matter, because, as you yourself said, we need to maintain the balance between the protection of privacy on the one hand and the resources that we have to give to police forces and investigators on the other hand, in order to combat crime. In disappearance cases, for example, the use of such data is crucial to make a difference. It will not be easy to maintain that balance. It would certainly be premature to comment on the way in which the legislation will be amended and within what time-limit; it will not be easy. I've been in touch with, among other things, Philippe Van Linthout, whom you undoubtedly know. The chairman of the investigators also spoke to me about this. I've also been in contact with the Data Protection Authority. We are very aware of the task ahead of us, and hopefully we will be able to bring it to a successful conclusion. Mrs. Bury, I see you're back. You have apparently also put a question on this, but it may not have come to the Commissioner; the President can clarify it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u87	I had submitted a request for an interview, but this should first be discussed at the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u88	Indeed, requests for interpretation must always pass through the Conference of Presidents first. We have not been informed of this, so it is likely that the matter has not yet been discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u89	Since the subject is now being discussed in committee, I do not know whether the interplay makes any sense. You have also answered questions to which I referred in my text. But may I speak for a moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u90	Your question is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u91	What I'm trying to say is just useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u92	That way anyone can take the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u93	Mr. Secretary, please allow me to give you a tip.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u94	I suggest you just listen to the answer. If you have an interplay, it will be discussed next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u95	Good.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u96	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Privacy is very important to me and to many Members of this House. However, when it comes to the fight against official crime, we need to find a balance. After all, criminals cannot be allowed to go free while there are tools available. That's why I think it's a good thing you're not stuck with the suits. You don't want to wait and see, but you want to get on with it. In our continent there is careful monitoring at European level of compliance with privacy law, which is a good thing, but our people in the field must of course also be able to work. In that respect, I welcome your answer. I'll keep following up on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u97	Minister, in 2019, the Supreme Court of Justice issued a report with a number of recommendations for a better approach to sexual violence. Moreover, the coalition agreement also talks about a chain-oriented approach to this issue. One of the recommendations made by the Supreme Court of Justice was to introduce sex cases as a general rule that they would be dealt with behind closed doors. Unless something else is asked and decided. That was also a question from Julie Van Espen's parents. In one of the letters they sent, they called for it. In April, I tabled a bill to make that possible. Hence my questions, Minister. Are you in favour of introducing the treatment behind closed doors as a standard rule for sex cases, in the interests of the victim? Has that been discussed in the drafting of the coalition agreement? If so, is there an agreement to proceed quickly? It can be done very quickly, Minister, because our legislative proposal has already been tabled. Are you prepared to support this parliamentary initiative quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u98	Mrs De Wit, thank you for your very topical questions. You're right. In the opinion of the Supreme Court of Justice, it is literally stated that "considering whether it is legally possible to make the general rule in matters of vice in closed doors and the public treatment the exception'. I would draw your attention to the cautious wording. How do I feel about that now? First of all, I would like to point out that public access to the session is a fundamental principle of law and an important part of the rights of defence, as guaranteed by Article 6 of the ECHR, Article 14 of the BUPO and Article 148 of our Constitution. This openness guarantees control of the actions of the judicial authorities and, more specifically, of the courts, the protection of the accused against unlawful public action, the prevention and legitimisation of criminal justice and, in particular, of the case-law. I'm not going to exaggerate, but in the Ancient regime was spoken right behind closed doors in any way. An important boltade says: "Justice must not only be done, it must also be seen to be done. It is therefore important that hearings can be public. On the basis of Articles 148, 6 and 53 of the ECHR, it is possible in certain cases to order the closed doors if one of the parties or the victim so requests, in order to protect the personal sphere of life. In that case, this shall be declared by judgment of the court. At present, Article 190, second paragraph of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides for the possibility of dealing with the case with closed doors, in the case of prosecutions based on Articles 372 to 378, 379, 380, 380a and 433quinquies of the Criminal Code. The court may order that the case be dealt with behind closed doors if one of the parties so requests. It is therefore already possible to deal with delicate sex cases or cases involving minors or vulnerable persons behind closed doors because, for example, it can be very traumatic for the victim to re-tell the story to a large audience. In that sense, I fully understand your concern. What do I want to commit to? I am committed to examining whether the amendment you are proposing can be implemented in a constitutional manner. I would also like to refer to the proposal for a revision of Article 286 of the Code of Criminal Procedure which has been submitted and which is re-expanding and extending the content of the current Article 190. The legislative proposal currently under discussion in the Chamber remains the rule of public access, but the exceptions are more broadly defined. I also think it is important that, before taking a decision on this issue, we enter into discussions with people from the field. You referred to the Van Espen family. I have received a letter from them and answered it, but there are also within the magistrates who have very great expertise in the field of vice. It is also important for me to hear their knowledge on the subject. I think that we should be dilapidated and cautious in dealing with this, but certainly we should also have the openness to engage in the conversation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u99	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I always think it's a good idea to have this conversation. I believe that being in touch with the field is essential for the performance of your duties as Minister of Justice. It's a very special area. You'll be able to find out about it as you go along. I hope that you will not only pay attention to the letter from the Van Espen family which was sent again last week, but that you will also discuss it with them. I know that opportunities already exist today, but in some cases it may be more interesting to turn it around. An unsub may ask not to compromise his parole, but the victim doesn't always have the same opportunity. Especially in the context of sexual violence, I believe that the victim's approach is essential and that we should pay attention to that. I am pleased that you are making the commitment to look at this, and I hope that you will do so with openness towards those who are experts in experience. I am thinking of people from the courts and the legal profession, but also of the victims and their families who are confronted with this and where the wound is being ripped open again in a hearing, often with audiences, which must be particularly painful. I'll hold you to your commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u100	Madam President, Minister, we remain in the same spirit. Last year we received a letter from the Van Espen family. Last week, a friendly reminder came. A number of things have already changed, but let's face it, not enough has happened since then. The corona crisis has come to an end. All the understanding for that, but it should not be an excuse and certainly not an excuse. The family has asked for a state of affairs on a number of points. I myself was mentioned, following the proposal of the closed doors, but reference was also made to another proposal, which was cited in the media by CD&V. There are no texts, but it's about mandatory follow-up and therapy for sex offenders. CD&V did not submit a text on the subject at the time, but there is a text on the extension of the posting. Moreover, this extension was one of the recommendations of the committee which examined the attacks, but it could also be a solution in the context of the follow-up and therapy of sex offenders after the end of the sentence. We know that, especially in that category, it is often chosen to serve the sentence until the end, rather than to be succeeded. I read in the coalition agreement that you would ask for an update, but I would like to hear your position, Minister. Are you in favour of compulsory follow-up and therapy of sex offenders, even after their punishment? Is there an agreement to make that quick? Would you dare go beyond asking for the update? Actually, it's not necessary anymore. It can be switched very quickly. There are several proposals for extending the posting, not only from our party, but also from others. Would you like to get to work on these legislative proposals?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u101	Madam President, Mrs De Wit, in response to the questions put by Mrs Bury and Mrs Matz, I have already mentioned the importance I attach to the fight against sexual violence, together with the Prime Minister and the entire government. As far as your first question is concerned, a number of prisoners with a high risk profile are in prison and sex offenders often have that profile. These prisoners must first and foremost be punished for the suffering they have caused, but at the same time we must seek guidance tailored to each individual, in order to work on their reintegration and prevent recurrence. This guidance should, in a manner of speaking, begin on day 1 of the prison stay. I think that this is equally important, if not more important, than discussing new systems of optional or mandatory follow-up after the end of the sentence. If that guidance is not available in prison, then the posting to the criminal enforcement court after the end of the sentence is merely a security measure which simply removes an individual from society. A mandatory follow-up after the punishment of every sex offender, as you suggest, seems to me to be contrary to another principle that I mentioned, namely the need for a tailor-made individual approach. Mandatory standard measures do not always seem to me to be compatible with a personalised approach. As far as your second question is concerned, you have been able to read the coalition agreement and you will have seen that the fight against sexual violence is an important point. I would like to accept your invitation to cooperate, so I would like to enter into dialogue with this committee. Together, we can see how we can do this best and fastest, if necessary through the existing legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u102	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I agree with you that guidance should start from the first day of detention. I think counseling should start as soon as the prison stay starts. This will benefit the response to repeated crime. The detention plan will be essential for this purpose. Furthermore, you say that the approach during detention will be almost more important than the introduction of a new system, but I do not agree with that. I don't think it's an or-or story. It's an en-and-story. There will always be cases for which it is necessary. If you're thinking about security measures earlier, I would have liked to know how you see it, but we'll get the chance to do that. That is why there are no texts before us at the moment, just a few announcements. The provision of services is indeed a system which already exists today. We have proposed an enlargement. However, the new penal code, which is under discussion in this Committee on Justice, provides for its abolition. If that happens without an alternative in place, there's nothing left. In my opinion, this does not serve society at all, for the very high risk profiles. In that sense, it's not an or-or story, it's an en-and-story. I propose to address the delinquency and risk profiles on all fronts, including the posting. This will be another point of interest to which I will certainly keep you in the further discussion of the new penal code.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u103	Mrs De Wit, there are still several points of discussion in the discussions on the new penal code. I've been following that, too. I hear that your plea is nuanced, and I do believe that we are tackling this in a rather nuanced way. The debate in committee on the penal code will be open, as is also stated in the coalition agreement, although based on existing texts, but indeed to look at it together with the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u104	Mr. Secretary, allow me to repeat for a moment. The problem is that the coalition agreement states that an update will be requested. However, this is in fact the subject of further discussion, but that is not necessary. There has been a very thorough update on sexual violence and also on the fight against terrorism, in the latter case in the follow-up committee following the terrorist attacks. I therefore regret the choice of words in the coalition agreement. I do express myself in a nuanced manner. I therefore hope that we will be able to work well together on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u105	Minister, you have already pointed out that, of course, within your policy, we will also have to talk to the regions. During the corona crisis, we saw that the use of, for example, ankle bands, a regional competence, has increased by 44% in Flanders. That's not nothing. This was due to the fact that more and more prisoners were released to prevent the overpopulation in prisons, of course in the fight against extra contagion in prison. I understand that, and that has been a noble goal, especially with regard to vulnerable prisoners. As a result, the invoice for that measure has been fully forwarded to the regions. Will you discuss and conclude agreements with the regions when decisions are taken that have a budgetary or other impact on that region? Are there any prisoners currently free with an ankle bracelet as a corona measure? If so, how many are there? Will you perpetuate this policy now that the corona figures are rising again? If so, is there perhaps a financial compensation for the region which is actually allowed to do the job? Are you planning a consultation with the relevant ministers of the regions on this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u106	Mrs De Wit, your question refers to a change in the use of ankle tyres in Flanders. However, during the corona crisis, the famous power of attorney decisions did not include any provision that changed the policy on electronic supervision. The claim that the increase would be due to the fact that more prisoners were released in order to reduce the overpopulation is not correct. People have indeed been released, but this was a question of suspension and of early release without an ankle bracelet. As far as your first question is concerned, an initial analysis of the data shows that the total number of prisoners who have been under electronic supervision since the start of the corona crisis has remained stable compared to the same period last year. What we do notice is that within this group, the proportion of prisoners who were issued an arrest mandate under electronic supervision was higher than in 2019. However, it is important to know that only the investigating judge takes this decision in full independence, and that this is not the Minister of Justice's policy. As far as your second question is concerned, I can confirm, in line with the answer to the first question, that it does not constitute a policy measure and that no single-band prisoners have been released at any time as part of a changed policy for the corona measures. Consequently, your third and fourth questions are without object. It's not a policy measure. Of course, we will consult with the various colleagues in the Länder, including Mr Demir, whom I know well, as you know, about the houses of justice, the supervision of prisoners and the recognition of religious communities. That goes without saying. However, I would like to correct this particular point.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u107	Minister, I am somewhat surprised at your answer, because there was indeed a conscious approach during the corona crisis that I also questioned Minister None of. He confirmed it as such. Questions have even been asked about this in a plenary session. This was also the subject of a wide-ranging discussion with correspondence between Mrs Demir's cabinet and the cabinet of former Minister Geens. Saying it was just the investigators, that's true. 25% more ankle bracelets for remand, that's right. However, saying that this does not involve any policy at all is somewhat short-sighted. For the future, this is all very interesting. If we are going to use more alternative punishment here, which, I understand, is the intention of the coalition agreement, given what Mr Lachaert has said about it in the European Parliament, after all, we have not been able to question you about it, you should know that, if necessary, we will automatically get to the courts and thus to the regions. As a result, the invoice for the deployment of staff and resources is always sent to the regions. The consultations will therefore indeed be essential. I am glad that you know the Minister responsible well and I am sure that you will get to know her even better over time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u108	Madam President, Minister, I read in the government agreement that experts will be consulted on the inclusion of ecocide in the Criminal Code. Very recently, this has been a study day in this House, because last week the arrows were hanging on the walls. How exactly would you define that concept? Can you give some examples, because I am trying to imagine something, but does it not always seem obvious? Is it your intention, and this is important - to make it possible, as in the case of genocide, for ecocides where there is no link to Belgium to be brought before Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u109	Madam President, Mrs De Wit, you are right to say that the coalition agreement has entrusted an expert group with the preparation of a definition for ecocide. Therefore, I do not want to take into account the conclusions that will be drawn by this group of experts, and I look forward with you to the definition that will bring them forward. In reply to your second question, I would like to point out that Belgian law, which was the case until 2003, no longer has legal jurisdiction with Belgium in the field of genocide or war crimes or crimes against humanity. That was the famous Sharon Act, which you may remember from the early 2000s, in which I myself played a certain role. In order for Belgian courts to have jurisdiction, a link is required with either the facts or the alleged offender or the victim or because the alleged offender is found in Belgium after the facts have been committed. It is therefore unlikely that, if ecocide were to be included in the Criminal Code, provision would be made for a more extensive extraterritorial rule of jurisdiction than the one already applicable to, for example, genocide.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u110	Madam President, Minister, I am somewhat reassured by the latter, because it would certainly not be obvious. For the rest, we must indeed wait until we can deal with it here in this committee. Perhaps you will take a hint of the veil in your policy paper, which I hope you will soon come to the committee, so that we can continue the discussion on this aspect and many others.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u111	Mrs Rohonyi, your question is particular but important. In my town of Courtrai, we also have an alderman responsible for this matter. In addition, we have entered into agreements with the police and prosecutors on this issue. So you will understand that this subject affects me. The most serious offences are dealt with as a matter of priority by the various public prosecutors. In the directive of the College of Attorneys General COL 4/2019, the priorities in criminal justice for Flanders were set. With regard to animal welfare, it was determined that priority was given to the following cases: - carelessness of animals causing serious suffering and/or injury to animals, ill-treatment and abandonment of animals; - negligence and cruelty towards animals whose condition persists. This is in response to Flanders's explicit request. With respect to your second question, no statistical data can be provided at this time. The method of calculation validated by the courts of first instance does not allow to isolate only cases of animal abuse. The support service of the College of Courts and Courts does not currently have any method of calculating the content of decisions in the files. In appeal courts, there is no specific code for the registration of cases dealing with animal welfare. These cases are recorded under a more general code which may also include other cases. To answer your third question, as I said, I consider animal welfare to be an important subject, but it is a matter for the regions. In answer to your fourth question, I can say that, if the Regions are asking for a procedure that allows the associations to go to court, I am at their disposal to talk about it, among other things, within the College of Attorneys General. I am finally answering your fifth question. Each prosecutor's office has at least one magistrate who deals with animal welfare cases. These magistrates shall ensure, where appropriate, that training in this field is carried out in the framework of the continuing training of judges. The judges responsible for animal welfare are in any case linked to the network of environmental expertise set up by the College of Public Prosecutors, which ensures that its members are informed of any new legislation in this field and of any other relevant practical matters. By their nature, the activities of networks of expertise contribute to the continuing training of the judges concerned, including meetings and multiple contacts between colleagues as well as with the competent services of the Brussels, Flemish and Walloon administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u112	Minister, I am pleased to see that you are also taking the lead at the local level to make respect for animal welfare a real priority. However, I also see a difference between theory and practice. Indeed, a circular was adopted to ensure that the very serious facts were prosecuted, but you were able to read, as I did in the press, that certain grave facts had not been prosecuted. Such a finding shocked public opinion, so much so that a petition with more than 82,000 signatures is circulating today. Whether we like it or not, lives are at stake, and we cannot afford that such serious facts are not punished. While the Regions are competent in matters of animal welfare, the federal authority must also ensure that perpetrators of such serious acts are prosecuted and convicted, especially when, a year earlier, it has passed a law to recognize animals as sensitive living beings. As far as statistics are concerned, I understand that it is difficult for you to obtain statistics because no specific code exists for this type of infringement. Nevertheless, it comes to my mind that out of 2,000 minutes in Wallonia in January 2019 for the past year, only 125 had been prosecuted, which corresponds to only 6%. Urban crime is more prosecuted. The above findings show that, in practice, public prosecutors do not regard animal welfare as a priority. My party has also tabled a bill to grant animal protection associations the right to stand trial. I hope that we will benefit from your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u113	Mrs Rohonyi, that depends. In my city, for example, a man had put a cat (called Sprotje) in a preheated oven at 200°C. In the end, the person in question was sentenced to six months' imprisonment, a fine of €4,000 and a lifetime ban on the holding of pets. The judgment dates from October 14, 2019, exactly a year ago. Since our city received a lot of reactions from people who found this scandalous act, the prosecutor's office pursued this man as a priority, and the conviction fell less than a year after the facts. There are other examples, but I agree with you that more emphasis should be placed on these barbaric acts towards animals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u114	Minister, thank you. If your floor is paying attention to it, it's good news, but I'd like everyone to be. In this way, all these facts could be punished uniformly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u115	Madam Chair, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u116	We talked about this with Mrs Van Bossuyt. She had asked a similar question, but it was not exactly about the same thing. Mr. Cogolati is really focusing on Mr. Fraser Cameron's case, which we have seen in the press in particular. I think there was an article in De Standaard, in our house on the Flemish side. I can inform you, Mr Cogolati, that a judicial investigation is under way in the United Kingdom. The case is currently being examined by the Belgian judicial authorities. We are currently unable to communicate the details of the case. With regard to intelligence, the State Security is working with the relevant security services of the European institutions to determine impact and scope and mitigate risks. Espionage and interference are constant threats to the European administration. State Security operates within the scope of the current legislation. As a matter of fact, one may wonder whether it is appropriate to address the issue of accreditation of journalists. Accreditations for foreign journalists are issued by a committee for accreditation of journalists, meeting under the authority of the Minister of the Interior. State Security notes, however, that this accreditation as a journalist is misused by some foreign intelligence agencies as cover for espionage activities. However, under the current regulatory framework, it is not possible to withdraw the accreditation of these journalists. Should such an assessment ever be introduced, the State Security will of course be willing to cooperate and provide the necessary information and expertise.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u117	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u118	The connection isn't good. I know the phenomenon. But now we have a Minister of Mobility, Mr Gilkinet. He's gonna fix this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u119	It'll be beautiful. It will be easier to communicate. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u120	Madam President, Mrs Bury, the COL 6/2020, the famous letter from the College of Attorneys General, was updated last Friday, as was the ministerial decision. Two things have been included in that. First of all, priority was given to the detection of three practices relating to the prohibition of cooperation: more than four persons, the closing time of cafes and restaurants and the duty of mouth masking on public transport. That was communicated at the time. Secondly, we have asked the coronamagistrates, and there is a coronamagistrate per parquet hall to ensure that there is indeed prosecution and that people are brought to justice. We're putting that in now. There are also contacts with the different coronamagistrates. The measures are likely to be even stricter on Friday and a new directive will be presented by the College to ensure that they are indeed being consolidated and prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u121	Thank you, Minister. I am very pleased, especially with the last sentence that will be effectively prosecuted, even in certain problem areas in Brussels, where people still want to sensitise the people who make mistakes, train together and do things that are not allowed. On the other hand, two people were seen two months ago sitting on a bench and getting a fine. That's not good for the Justice Department. People get angry. Two sizes and two weights must be avoided. The measures will be implemented much better if we know that they will be fined and implemented. It is very good that you have held consultations with the coronamisterates and that the succession is assured. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u122	Minister, it is good to be able to address you in this capacity. The Kurdish authorities are threatening to dismantle Al Hol. That means that potentially tens of thousands of IS terrorists will be released. This is due to the fact that the U.S. military may withdraw. I have two pertinent questions about this. Your new Deputy Head of Cabinet is someone for whom I have a great deal of respect but with whom I fundamentally disagree on one subject, the return of those IS fighters. Our vision is still and will continue to be that one must be tried and punished there. We are not ready to repatriate them to Belgium, where they may have to serve a very easy sentence without the burden of proof. Minister, do you share the view of your new Deputy Head of Office that we should be responsible for the repatriation of these IS terrorists? You've been Minister of Justice for two weeks now. It's October 14th today. When can we expect the next repatriation of an IS fighter, an IS terrorist with her children? Unfortunately, they are inextricably linked to their children's fate. I'd appreciate it if you'd give me an answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u123	Thank you, Mr Metsu, for your congratulations. It will be interesting to be able to debate with you. You appreciate my personal head of the cabinet. I see a lot of colleagues appreciate him. His personal opinion may be interesting, but what matters is the opinion of the Minister and the Government, and I will also tell you that opinion. The tens of thousands of IS fighters that would be released is not yet a fact. However, the situation in the camps is particularly precarious, but it has been so for months or even more than a year. The Belgian services, together with the international partners, are trying to monitor the situation. On this basis, the threat is assessed and possible measures are taken. You know that all Belgian FTFs, both men and women, are terminated internationally by the Belgian Justice Department, either for execution after a conviction by default or for arrest. According to information from the Foreign Office, at present 14 Belgian men, 21 Belgian women and 38 Belgian children, who are or might have Belgian nationality, would be detained in Kurdish camps or prisons in northeastern Syria. The priority for me is the security of our country and our citizens. The previous government has defined the policy in this area, which means that the possibility of return existed for children under 10 years of age. You know that, because your party was part of the government back then. I'll do the maximum I can to ensure safety. I will discuss this with the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the government's lap if necessary, especially if the OCAD would inform us that there is a threat to our country. It is not up to the Minister of Justice to decide whether contacts will be established at Belgian or international level with the local authorities. Many factors need to be taken into account in this complex problem. You also asked if fear of terror is increasing again, but I don't know. I do know that the threat level determined by the OCAD is unchanged on level two, but I add that there is always cause for alertness, not for complacency. Look at the rise of right-wing extremism, for example. I don't know what you're alluding to when you say that we stand by helplessly and don't take our responsibilities. Since the attacks, new structures and new collaborations between the services have been created within the framework of the Plan-R or Plan-Radialism: the LTFs, the LIVCs, the Joint Information Centers and that's more. We will continue to develop these structures in accordance with the coalition agreement in order to make ourselves even more robust against the danger of extremism and terrorism. Finally, we will continue to tackle radicalisation within the structures of the Radicalism Plan, together with the federated entities, not least with the Flemish Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u124	Those are indeed questions that were tabled a while ago. I have now asked two main questions. My main question has not been answered, so I assume that is not the case. I asked if we should expect any more imminent repatriations. Will there soon again be IS fighters or terrorists on our territory because they cling their fate to that of their children? The Minister did not reply, so I assume that is not the issue at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u125	I do not wish to comment on this at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u126	Mrs Rohonyi, other reasons than that of the health emergency justify the delay in the implementation of the law of 5 May 2019, which was postponed by Article 73 of the law of 16 July 2020 laying down various urgent provisions in the field of justice by 17 September 2021 at the latest. The reasons for this postponement are, in addition to the health crisis we are facing, the gaps identified in the law that prevent the creation of a database of quality judgments and verdicts. It has been established that the law of 5 May 2019 provides only a legal basis for the creation of a database of judgments and verdicts and does not provide a legal framework. In fact, when creating a database, a number of issues must be included in the law, regulated and implemented by royal and ministerial decrees. Moreover, the law refers only to the part accessible to the public in the database in which anonymous judgments and decisions are to be seized. Before this public part is available, work must be done on the authentic source of judgements and verdicts and on the internal part of the Data Act accessible to the judiciary. The law of 5 May 2019 opted for the anonymisation of decisions. This means that prior to publication, the identification of the parties to the proceedings as well as of the other natural persons involved in this procedure is made impossible by the deletion or replacement of personal data by false data in the version of the decision to be published. Here too, the precise legal framework is lacking. For example, there is no definition of data that must be made anonymous. Should criminal and civil decisions be treated in the same way? We don't know. What are the planned controls? We don't know. Who will be made anonymous and how? In summary, all these questions must first be answered and converted into a clear and manageable legal framework before a technical solution can be developed. In this way, we also want to avoid the pitfalls that the Phoenix project was confronted with when it was launched. The working group carried out an in-depth analysis of the law of 5 May 2019 and identified its shortcomings. This analysis was then discussed in the Joint Management Committee of Justice, the famous CECOM, which decided to discuss the implementation of the law in cooperation with the justice actors. This project began in February 2020. The anonymization of court decisions made public is both a necessary and very complex feature of the database. As mentioned above, it is essential to determine exactly what data will be anonymized. In addition, data that indirectly identify the parties must also be detected and anonymized. A second issue addressed in the project is the mode of anonymization. The ideal solution would be a tool that automatically anonymizes the selected data, by artificial intelligence. In the meantime, a solution will have to be found in which imperfect automatic anonymization will have to be combined with manual control and anonymization. Needless to say, training in the use of the database and its functionality can only be provided when the instrument itself is completed. It is essential to involve the Judicial Training Institute in each phase of the project, so that the training needs and the training programme to be developed will meet the objectives set out above.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u127	Minister, thank you for your answers. You start by saying that the outbreak of the health crisis has ultimately delayed the implementation of this database. I don't believe it too much, because Minister Geens had already told me about this famous working group, which would, in particular, address the problem of the anonymization of court decisions in September 2019. In fact, what happened, and as you said, is that this working group did not start its work until February 2020. I still have a huge regret about that, because we have lost too much time. I hear the database will be ready by September 1, 2021. I hope that we will be able to do so; indeed, it is extremely important to have complete case law. It is for the benefit of lawyers, magistrates, but also the people who are primarily litigants. You will be able to count on Parliament's support to ensure that this project can be implemented as soon as possible, and in any case by 1 September 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u128	Mr Aouasti, if it is all right with you, I will ask you my question first, otherwise no one will be in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u129	Madam President, I would like to thank you for your very interesting question, which, in fact, says everything about the computerisation and digitisation of our Department of Justice. You ask some very interesting questions that I have put to my services as a challenge. You will also quote your questions. I hope that my answer will convince you that things are different. MACH stands for Mammouth at Central Hosting. The Central Hosting is a cloud system and the Mammouth system, which has long existed, must replace the thirteen local judicial system in the long term. Each type of court had and has its own system. Projects such as Phoenix have tried to solve this. At some point it was decided to house all systems in one system, MACH. The MACH system currently runs with 518 applications, each in three languages, and 800 screens. There are about 15,000 fields for the introduction of data. Since his introduction, that project has had some modifications. In your question you refer to an audit carried out by Deloitte in 2014, but allow me to point out that we are now six years ahead, which in computer terms is a small revolution. Where computers were still running under Windows 95 in 2014, MACH today is fully compatible with Windows 10. MACH is available today on 380 sites across the country, 229 peace dishes, 28 police stations. I will not list all the figures, but today about 10,000 employees, 53% of our employees, are already working in the MACH system. The database now contains 109 million files and the growth rate is 850,000 files per month. The Crossborder platform works with the MACH to collect traffic fines. Recently, corona fines can also be collected. MACH is the hub for some 30 data exchanges with internal and external partners. I'm going to show you an illustration. I don't know if you can see them in the hall of all the partners working with the MACH platform today to do things. You can see here the logo of bpost, the police, the FPS Economy, lawyers, Home Affairs and the FPS Mobility. They're all cooperating with MACH. There is also personal support for all users. In other words, in terms of service oriented architecture or SOA architecture that is its difficult words so it is indeed taken into account by all external users. Experienced daily users find their way into MACH. However, the learning curve for new occasional users is indeed sharp. There is personal support for those users and a helpdesk; there is also support on the sites. More and more training courses are provided by the Institute of Judicial Training or IGO. For the user interface, MACH works with Oracle Forms, which is indeed outdated and no longer meets the needs of all employees. At present, however, there are two proof of concepts in progress. In English, it's called POCs. They want to significantly improve the interface. One of them I've already seen, namely the interface that runs on a tablet. I saw the interface at the reopening of the restored site in Leuven, where, among other things, Stephanie Vanthienen, a parquet Magistrate who is the inspiration of the project, showed me very enthusiastically how a session could be followed on the tablet, the agenda could be partially consulted and photos added. Things looked really fresh. I may not know anything about many things, but I do know something about digitalization. It looked really good. In addition, a second POC or proof of concept is ongoing. It's about a new web browser that needs to significantly improve accessibility to MACH. So you have absolutely a point. However, that will be possible. Speaking of user-friendliness, on average there is a new release of MACH every eight weeks. The new versions each contain about a hundred calls. A call is a concrete adjustment based on the feedback from the site, i.e. from the users. With the additional budget for computerisation that we are now getting, we are going to increase the number of adjustments by a factor of 4. We must not throw the child away with the bath water, we must preserve the good elements of MACH and at the same time we must guarantee the continuity of the service of the judicial order. I spoke about this during the handover with Minister None. He warned me not to make major statements about computerization and new systems. If you do that, think of the previous projects such as Phoenix, then you are going to discuss something new for three or four years and finally get into the chips. I don't want to do that. I want to continue and improve the system that works. In the coming years, we will also have the labour court and the company court working with MACH in the context of convergence, phase 2. When harmonisation of processes, documents and forms is completed, this will provide a solid starting point to move to the successor of MACH. That'll be stage three. This successor is called Just New, a project launched by the College of Courts and Courts. Mrs Bayard and Mr Willocx are two highly-motivated magistrates who have helped set up the Just New system. That system will be the successor of MACH and will be much more user-friendly and accessible. It will probably be another three to four years, but we are going to prepare that well now and, above all, look at what the magistrate and the lawyers need. I would also like to refer to the words of the Attorney General of East Flanders who said something positive about MACH in his Mercurial on 1 September 2020, which contrasts with the quotes you quoted. He said: "MACH can become the unique database for all investigations and subpoenaed criminal records through the criminal chain through which the registrations in those criminal files can benefit from the link in MACH to external databases, for example the ANG, the National Registry and the KBO, or from previous registrations by other entities of the Public Prosecutor's Office." He was positive about that anyway. The further development of MACH should be done by converting the remaining older applications into MACH, in particular the PAGE application of the parquet general and the PEG of the (...) of the parquets. MACH can therefore become a unique database. So the story is more nuanced. It all sounds very old and the name is terrible. There is a nice video on YouTube in which the staff of the IT department of Justice talk about 'MACKIE'. That sounds a little more sympathetic. Names are what they are. The most important thing is that we ensure a user-friendly application. We're adjusting things. The system must be robust and more and more courts will run on it. The follow-up is already foreseen within a few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u130	I am pleased that, as Minister of Justice, you will use staff on computerization. That is indeed necessary. However, this has been written in every coalition agreement for the last 30 years. I hope you can do it, but I'm afraid so with this system. You're doing a lot of work and you're doing your tour. You need to hear a lot of people. However, I hear a great deal of criticism of that system in the field. Not only certain people criticize it. I wish you every success and I wonder what it will give, but I'm a little afraid of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u131	Minister, it's nice to see a new minister in place who has the same momentum and spirit when he answers the questions. It's nice to see! The current period is exceptional both in the health situation and in the measures and restrictions decided to deal with it. Nevertheless, despite the measures taken, we must maintain our absolute demand for democracy. In this regard, I have read a white card which was published by a group of lawyers in the Belgian Free this afternoon and which you were probably also able to read, Minister. These considerations are realized because of the publication of COL 06/2020 of the College of Attorneys General, which sets out guidelines in relation to the judicial implementation of the Ministerial Decree of 30 June 2020 and its subsequent amendments. While there are many points that can be discussed, one in particular concerns the point 3 "Treatment of other offences" which makes certain conduct an offence, as appears to be done with respect to articles 328 or 454 of the Criminal Code, which are also drafted on a conditional basis. Minister, the need for public support is necessary for the fight against the VOCID-19 and the judicial institution must be and remain an institution of discernment. I must confess that I find it awkward, if not dangerous, to associate administrative measures with the sudden criminalisation of behaviour on grounds which I consider to be inconclusive or even doubtful. Since the publication of the COL, I have also received a great deal of feedback, moved by these qualifications, coming from a variety of backgrounds, aware of the difficulty of fighting the pandemic but also deeply committed to our democratic principles. These returns all have in common to indicate that such considerations in COL 6/2020 not only do nothing to combat the pandemic, but, conversely, contribute to a dangerous questioning of our institutions when a democratic collapse is perceived there. Mr. Minister, can you assure us that we will not hear criminal definitions for even transgressive, but normal, behaviour in democracy, infractions? Therefore, can you tell us whether they are considered adequate, which would be covered by the criminal qualifications covered by COL 6/2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u132	Mr Aouasti, your question seems theoretical, but it is fundamental since it concerns the limits of democracy that we have installed since March with ministerial decrees and college directives. These issues are very relevant. I fully share your concern about respect for democracy. However, it should be pointed out that the temporary qualification work carried out by prosecutors and then by the substantive judge is a rigorous legal work carried out by professional magistrates. In order to establish the existence of the offence under law, they must verify whether all the constituent elements of the offence defined by the federal legislature with regard to the Criminal Code are present. Hence the use of the conditional, the expression "if any", synonymous with "if any", in point 3 of the circular, while the simple future is used in the criminalizations of the Penal Code which are cited to link prohibited behaviour to the penalty incurred. The facts must be sufficiently characterized, clarified as to their materiality and defined in time and space, and committed with an intention to violate the law in order to be able to constitute the criminal offences listed in point 3 of the circular. These offences therefore do not apply in the case of involuntary acts such as spontaneous sneezing. It also does not target, for example, an epileptic person in crisis who would drool in a public place or someone who, in an act of delusion, would shout in the subway that he is contaminated and wants to spread the virus. Acts that are contrary to the law voluntarily and knowingly committed in violation of the law or for the specific purpose of causing great anguish to others are required in order to be able to institute criminal proceedings and punish the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u133	Minister, I would like to address my reply to you in two steps. First of all, I thank you because I think that we are actually touching a limit there. And, when you touch the limits, it is fundamental to be able at some point to stop, to ask whether this limit should be reached or to reverse. I thank you for being aware of this. I had no doubt that you were aware of this, but I thank you for reaffirming it here publicly and for saying that it is also a consideration – I am also convinced – that judges, especially prosecutors and magistrates sitting, have when they have to judge whether there should be cases in these specific cases. I now turn to my second consideration. While I am certain that, in the context of legal reasoning, a prosecution or conviction will only take place if the elements of the offence exist and are founded on the head of a court, I am concerned about the mention of elements in an COL, as already relayed by the press last weekend. In fact, police officers do not have the legal training, the hindrance, the habit of legal proceedings, the habit of basic questions. In considerations where these police officers are unfortunately already overloaded due to stress related to the control of a whole range of people in the context of the coronavirus pandemic, I fear that this lack of discernment may result in people, who wish to be transgressive, whether they are willing or not, being demonstrating, being transgressive, it is finally still a sign of our democracy – given established standards, being able to be placed in a judicial circuit, from which they should be exempt and from which they would have been exempt in normal times. However, they would integrate it, solely because of the pandemic, the circumstances surrounding it, the fatigue of some officials and the qualifications that can be given. In my opinion the danger is there. We must, therefore, see how the press has used this COL, really pay attention to the fact that our democratic principles cannot be used in the context of this pandemic, otherwise we would do worse than better.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u134	Mr Minister, that concludes this first questioning session. After all the questions, it seems that colleagues would like to see you come to the committee soon with the policy letters.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u135	Madam President, the agenda for the discussion of the policy letters is still to be drawn up, probably with the Conference of Presidents. As far as the questions are concerned, are they dealt with in committee every two weeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic281x.u136	Because there were so many questions, we dealt with questions every week in the past. Maybe we should look at how we're going to do that from now on. In principle, we dealt with the questions every Wednesday afternoon, while designing Tuesday morning and discussing proposals on Wednesday morning. Next Wednesday we will have a whole day of hearings, so we do not expect you to answer questions.
