ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic124x.u1	Colleagues, the first item on the agenda this morning concerns the statements of the Federal Prosecutor on the reform of the Assize Court in light of the trial of the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016. We will not appoint a rapporteur for this item, since there will be a full report which will be forwarded to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic124x.u2	For ease of reference, we will divide the tasks linguistically. I will make my statement in Dutch and the federal prosecutor will make his statement in French. I believe that this is the best way to work. I hope you agree. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Constitutional and Institutional Renewal, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much for receiving me today as President of the College of Attorney General and giving me the opportunity to explain the position of the Public Prosecutor's Office, not just the College of Attorneys General, on the amendment or abolition of Article 150 of the Constitution. There is usually talk of a revision. In its current reading, Article 150 of the Constitution, you know, stipulates that the jury is to be set up for all criminal matters, as well as for political crimes and press crime, except for press crime motivated by racism or xenophobia. A few years ago, the Minister of Justice introduced an amendment to the law on the administration of justice before the courts. By law of 5 February 2016 amending criminal law and criminal proceedings and laying down various provisions on justice, he introduced the generalised correctness of crimes. As a result, from 1 March 2016, any crime, regardless of its severity, could be corrected. It meant that murder and manslaughter should no longer be brought before the Court of Assists, but that their treatment could also be done by a decision of the investigating court before the classically correct court. I would like to make it clear that the choice of whether or not to correct crimes belonged to the investigating court. I hear too many times that the public prosecutors decided on that. It wasn't, it was the research court, or in other words the independent seat. It is true that the College of Attorneys General, in order to manage this internally in the public prosecutor's office, issued guidelines to organise uniformity in the prosecution's claims policy. In doing so, we tried to ensure consistency in the way the investigating court was taken into account for those cases, so that we agreed on when we went to the correctional court instead of choosing the court of assistants. The whole new structure, the new legislation concerned only one of the many measures taken by the Minister of Justice to adapt criminal law and criminal proceedings to the needs of our present society. In particular, he meant that the procedures could be faster and more efficient in this way, without affecting the quality of the administration of justice or the rights of the defence. However, in the judgment of 21 December 2017, the Constitutional Court ruled that the rules of the Law of 5 February 2016 were unconstitutional. Let me summarize the detailed judgment. In other words, there were two reasons for the destruction of the legal provisions. On the one hand, the Court found that there were insufficient guarantees in the settlement of mitigating circumstances that people would be treated in the same way in the same situation. On the other hand, the court also found that it was not excluded that in some cases the accused could be punished even more severely by a court of correction than by the court of assistants. Those two comments were subsequently not included in the legislative amendments because we understand this also well the political climate was not there then to make a second attempt to perhaps correct 90% and not to correct 10%. This would have affected the equality and risk of a new destruction by the Constitutional Court. The current Minister of Justice in current affairs and his government partners considered that a review of Article 150 of the Constitution should therefore be considered. I would like to point out that, at the time of the destruction of the relevant provisions of the law of 5 February 2016, a certain calm had descended over the judicial landscape. On the basis of the processes carried out under that legislation, without the involvement of the Court of Assists, it was clear that the case-law was still as fair as it was before. Not all of them, but still most of them, we should not focus on those one or two procedures in which things were more difficult. However, the witnesses and the experts were still heard, perhaps less and I think mainly of the morality investigation. However, there was no structural refusal of witnesses and experts to allow them to proclaim their insights. More importantly, as the Attorney General in Ghent, I noted that there was an appeal. I have not checked how many cases have been effectively appealed, but at least we have seen that not everyone has appealed for such serious facts after a correct conviction. Most of them have appealed, but there has also been a smooth treatment in appeals. I can only speak for myself, because that obviously requires a more extensive study. However, I can only observe that, at that time, the classic delay, as one calls it, although it is actually a slower flow of the files at the level of the court of appeal, was shattered. There are, of course, other factors, such as a complete framework and then suddenly a less complete framework, which means that today, as we re-organise regular sessions of the Court of Assists, I can only see that we are failing in practice to achieve the same flow of the classic correctional dossiers. The determination at that time, and a factor in my plea today, if I may call it a plea, but also feel globally in us as prosecutors and for courts and tribunals that emerged from discussions with Chiefs of Staff was a clear difference in the trend of permanent confrontation with a backlog. That delay wasn't gone. I will not explain that today either, but there was a quiet evolution, which I unfortunately no longer notice today, at least for my troublemaker. You would, of course, like to hear today exactly what arguments we have to make to say that we would be better off, if I may say so disrespectfully, with a Justice in which there is no more court of assistes for the crimes. I would like to focus on murders and murders. I would like to explain this briefly in five points. Most of them are not points that are solely the views of the public prosecutor. We are not a leading party in the process, but we are not the ones alone in the court of assists. There are other partners. I think it is very important to take them into account as well, but then, of course, I know that the lawyers have a completely different opinion than, for example, the Public Prosecutor's Office. Some on the seat who have had years of experience with the court of assistants are in favour. I can understand that, but we have to see it from a number of axes. The first and most important axis for me is the expectations of today's society. I do not think I am wrong to say that the citizens expect a rapid and efficient process. I am sorry to have to say this, but at least it is not a procedure for the Court of Assists. I'm not saying there should be no oral procedure on criminal matters. The oral procedure, which exists today before the Court of Assists, was indisputably justified at the time in a society in which the unskilled made up the majority of the population. Not everyone could read and write then. According to the articles at the time, there was also great distrust of the judiciary and the judges. In other words, that is why people wanted the participation of a jury of citizens. That, of course, required certain specific requirements for that period. In my view, procedurally speaking, an oral procedure which still exists today before the Court of Assists is irresponsible. The removal of judges and counsellors from other correctional chambers of the court of appeal or the correctional court inevitably leads to disorganisation of those courts and courts. The structures are disorganised in the sense that one is obliged to set aside certain items to sit in the court of assists. In other words, by this disorganisation, I mean, above all, that there is a delay in the handling of many other dossiers. In all honesty, no one would accept such a strategy from a private company. It is no longer for society to explain that one assistance process suspends the treatment of other criminal cases for a long time. The reason for this is only the unavailability of the magistrates who sit in these chambers. This great tax on the courts as a result of the Court of Assistes has also been mentioned by the Supreme Court of Justice. Already in a 2009 opinion, they stopped the overload as one of the many reasons to say that the arguments for abolition outweigh the arguments for conservation. Another important reason for this was the lack of dual construction. In the note I have put at your disposal, I have also noted that the Supreme Court of Justice also adopted that same position in 2011. This was even more explicit in an opinion on the 2009 law on reform of the Court of Assists. As an annex to that opinion, you will find a comprehensive note on cost. I will not go into this cost today because it is in theory easy to remedy by providing the necessary financial resources. I know that these resources are not available at the moment, and that is why I am not going into them. In my view, that is a budgetary debate and we are not talking about it here today. In addition to the fact that the citizen is entitled to count or a rapid and efficient process, it seems to me that the citizen expects a professional judgment. I would like to make it clear that I have no doubts about the commitment and drive of the jurors, but we cannot deny that they are faced with an increasing complexity of criminal cases, which occur in general and which the Court of Assists cannot escape. Can it be reasonably argued today that a juror does not need knowledge of the legislation on special investigation in order to be able to properly assess a criminal case, that he does not need a thorough knowledge of criminal proceedings or of the doctrine of nullities, or knowledge of the scientific techniques of modern trace research, that he does not need knowledge of the distinction between the victim and the accomplice, nor of entanglement, nor of all the legal problems surrounding such concepts? I do not think it is justified for us to expect that from the citizen. I'm reading in the press. I've looked at it a little bit in advance. Even eminent professors or lawyers say that the chairman of the court of assistants should explain those concepts to the jurors. The training courses provided by the Institute for Judicial Training in these matters are days-long courses. Those are really thorough training courses, and I think it is totally contradictory to expect a chairman of the Court of Assists to explain all this to the jurors himself during the session, in such a way that they can deal with the matter with the necessary sense of nuance. To be honest, I do have my reservations about that. In other words, expect that, for example, the process of the attacks of 22 March 2016 under this 19th-century procedure, in fact, would be an 18th-century procedure which has already been amended several times, seems irresponsible to me, both because of the nature of the facts and because of the expected duration of the process. I suspect that you are all well aware that the hearing of investigators, police officers, victims, witnesses and experts will take months and that the jurors will have to rule on thousands of questions. The risk of procedural errors is particularly serious in those circumstances, the threat of a second trial with a different jury is proportionate. I am not going to go into this in more detail, because Mr Van Leeuw will discuss it a little more extensively. This does not prevent society, in my view and in the eyes of the public prosecutor, from generally assuming that a process will take place in optimum conditions. Let us be honest, for those who have already seen it, that is not the case with an assistive procedure. This is particularly difficult to achieve, and I am referring, once again, not to the merely material requirements, because they can be remedied. I am thinking, among other things, of the lack of guidance of the jurors in their duties, as I have just explained, and of the security risks the jurors face. I am thinking of the risks of unconscious or conscious influence by third parties, particularly by the media. This is not a criticism of the media, but it is a fact that the media also play a role in such matters. I note, however, that this is a criticism of mine, that the lawyers are increasingly trying to make their move outside the courtroom through the media. I am increasingly finding that I cannot hear the outcome of a trial outside the courtroom, but that the debates are taking place in the streets and in all kinds of forums. I was taught at the time that a process should be able to proceed in complete serenity, in other words that there would be no statements in the press during the trial. The state's attorney's office is trying to stick to that. We make our statements in the courtroom, but more and more I see it evolving into a situation where people want results more and more quickly. We cannot stop it, it is a matter of modern media. People want to know what's happening. As a young boy of 12, 13 years old, I read the newspaper De Gentenaar. I'd say that, I'm still a gentenaar. In De Gentenaar there were always juicy stories, such as the Jespers case and the Horion case. I followed all that. I find that particularly interesting. I personally believe that this should continue to be possible, but the struggle between the prosecution and the lawyers, but also between defense lawyers and the civil party, should be possible in the courtroom. I am increasingly finding that this rule, which seems to me to be a basic rule, is no longer respected, can no longer be respected, precisely by the pressure of our society. As a result, I regret to say that the assassin process is becoming a circus maximus. By the way, it already is. I read last week about an unacceptable evolution in the media battle. The article was about political parties. That evolution was called trumpian. I note that the struggle for the court of assistants is becoming more and more a circus maximus. It almost becomes bread and games, where one tries to get even with all possible means. I admit I might go too far in this. It's not because it happens in one or two processes, but I'm still establishing that. I would like to put it to you: in some of those trials before the Court of Assists today, can we still speak of a serene debate leading to a serene judgment of the jury? Can the jury, as it has been compiled, make a more serene judgment? This is something we must bear in mind. I note that even human rights attorney Paul Bekaert, of whom one cannot really say that he is always taking the side of the public prosecutor, on the contrary, no longer believes in a people's jury. That was my first argument that you should judge, namely what society ultimately wants. We are talking about society in the broadest sense. Legally, however, I note that there is a great inequality between the defendant's rights before the Court of Assists and in other corrective proceedings. I have already pointed out that this inequality exists because no appeal is possible against the decision of the Court of Assists. In my view, the absence of an appeal for the accused is an anachronism. For almost all conceivable matters, except in the case of small amounts, civil and social law is accepted that the seeker may obtain a second reading of his file by a more experienced court of law. That is also the case in criminal matters. However, in the case of murder and manslaughter, one suddenly dares to say that a jury cannot be mistaken, while the principle of dual predisposition accepts that a professional magistrate may be mistaken, that the prosecution may be wrong in his claim and that the judge may be wrong in his judgment. Today, however, the jury accepts that his judgement is always correct. You cannot see the foregoing as a plea for the introduction of an appeal court of assistants, for the simple reason that it is, in my view, a plea for confidence that there was not in the knowledge, objectivity, independence and professionalism of the many judges and counsellors who sit in correct cases in the 18th century. After all, it's about them. It's about the judges and the counsellors. By the way, that jury which is supposed to be in a position to make a mistake, I would even like to accept this intellectually, and legally, it is also correct at the moment, I do not think, in any way reflect society. After all, the jury is always a reflection of the availability of people to sit. How many self-employed people have you seen sitting on a jury and largely giving up their professional income? So we don't find certain categories in the jury. So assuming that the jury really represents the people, it's largely true but it's not 100 percent. My third argument is the incoherence of our criminal law. I'm getting over it a little faster because, of course, it's all well-known arguments. That argument is important, including for the members of the Committee on Justice. Our criminal law still knows today the classic classification of crimes into crimes, malpractices and offences. For most of these crimes, including the attempted manslaughter and the attempted murder, the legislation does provide for automatic correction. This means that the toughest legal penalties for these crimes will never be applied, precisely because we want to avoid that the trial should be conducted before the Court of Assists. In other words, I would ask you whether you still consider it justifiable that a criminal case such as a passionate manslaughter should be brought before the Court of Assists, while a criminal case on a series of rapes and assaults of dignity is determined by force for the courts of appeal. In my view, the criminal attitude of the perpetrator in that last case may be much more alarming. In concrete terms, this means that in the passionate case, the accused is at risk of the most serious punishment without a means of appeal and that the suspect, perhaps much more criminally charged, in the second case, the case of rapes and sexual assaults of dignity, may receive a much lighter penalty and can therefore appeal against that lighter penalty. Members of the Committee on Justice will answer me that the solution is already provided for in the draft new Criminal Code under consideration in the Committee on Justice. However, I do not think it is that simple. After all, as the College of Attorneys General writes in its opinion on the new Criminal Code, we are asking ourselves serious questions about the practical feasibility of the proposed regime in relation to the classification of crimes into level 8 and the related abolition of the law on mitigating circumstances. Many of the crimes that can currently be dealt with before the correctional courts will have to be dealt with again after the entry into force of the new Criminal Code, as it now stands, before the Court of Assists. I'll give you a brief technical explanation. The attempted level 8 crime is punished by a level 7 penalty. This apparently means that the court of assists remains competent. In practice, this means that all murder attempts must be brought back to the court of assistants. The increase in the penalty for the murder of minors and vulnerable persons and from intra-family manslaughter to a level 8 sentence also means that the attempted murder of minors and vulnerable persons and the attempted intra-family manslaughter will be the responsibility of the Court of Assists, while we do not now go to the Court of Assists with such files. We are concerned that we are in any case of the opinion that the proposed new justice regime will be catapulting in time, until before the Law of 21 December 2009 on the reform of the Court of Assists. I do not know about the most recent discussions, but I hope, quite frankly, that the opinion on them will be read in depth from our point of view. If our reading is correct, there will soon be a need for additional capacity at the court of assists. I think that other partners present here are better placed to see which direction we are heading. I would like to ask the very theoretical question where the government will obtain the necessary and substantial additional human and financial resources to organise all these assistance cases within a reasonable period of time. Organising is one thing, but one of our concerns over the last ten to fifteen years is still acceptable to the citizen. Again and again I hold my heart: unfortunately, we have seen again in Antwerp how things can go wrong if we cannot keep our deadlines strictly and do not bring files to the hearing as soon as possible after the facts. It becomes an obstacle course when we have to put aside files again and again to go to the court of assists. We are, of course, at great risk as a public prosecutor, because we have our responsibilities, but the lack of judgements and judgments in cases is certainly very tragic for the people. My fourth point concerns a point of discussion in the literature I have consulted, of which I think I should give my opinion and that of the College, namely: the victim in the criminal proceedings. We sometimes hear as an argument that an assist process is purifying for the victim. That is possible, but the College of Attorneys General is convinced that this is also the case in a court of law. We're already in the 21st century anyway. For many years, assistance to victims has been taken into account not only at the proper hearing, but also months to years before by the competent departments of the Communities. I am thinking in particular of the judicial assistants, who are responsible for the reception of victims. Since the 1990s, this service has been characterised by enormous growth and assistance to victims in any kind of investigation and criminal proceedings. Those people know their way around. I doubt, in all honesty, whether the fact that the victim is accompanied by two weeks before the Court of Assistes offers a better result than when one is accompanied by the persons in question for a comprehensive correctional process. On an assistive process, this is the problem; it exposes the actors to enormous publicity, leading to secondary victimisation of the victim's family members; the victim is usually no longer there. The victim's family cannot be properly prepared for the impact of such an assist process on their lives. One can't do that. The victim assistants are doing their best, but one cannot foresee everything. They are surprised and are not prepared for the traditional, often very critical description of the life of their lost family member and sometimes their own lives, down to the smallest detail. Is that cleansing for the victim? It can, I will not deny that it is possible in certain cases, but in the vast majority of cases it is not. In all cases, this can also be done by means of thorough and adapted treatment before a court of law, which we shall shortly call different. Classical correctional sessions are also public, but the impact on the victims is much less. There is generally a much greater serenity there, although there are exceptions, which of course also appear extensively in the newspaper. My fifth and final argument concerns the unfair limits of Article 150 of the Constitution. I would like to talk briefly about the press crimes. The press crimes and political crimes are sometimes cited as arguments for the preservation of the court of assists. That seems to me to be a debate that can be split up. There is certainly a problem with the press crimes. We have written to the Minister about this and I take this opportunity to quote it here. I regret to inform you that the cabinets of the public prosecutors are full of files where innocent citizens are being molested over the Internet and with which the court can't go to court. When I say cabinets of the public prosecutors full of files, there is no press here in the Chamber, of course, I mean simply that we cannot go to the council room with those files. In other words, we are stacking them up until the time of limitation. At the public prosecutor's office in Ghent we grouped them together for a while. It concerns dozens of dossiers in the various areas of activity, which cannot be dealt with. Why? That is because the total capacity of the Court of Assists, including the counsellors and judges-assessors, is completely swallowed up by the treatment of the most serious criminal cases, that is murder and manslaughter. As a result, press crime does not come to the court of assists and is de facto impunity. Why, however, is it important to think about it and perhaps make a change? We must take into account the case law of the Court of Cassation on the Internet and the possibility of spreading almost unlimited allegations and insinuations which irreparable damage the good name and honour of people. It is not possible for us to give a positive response to all the complaints made by those people who are being attacked on the Internet, a very delicate medium, and who may rightly and for a reason submit a complaint to us, when this is necessary for the simple reason that the Court of Cassation has made it quite clear that this is the competence of the Court of Assistes, even in the case of crimes called press crime but committed via the Internet. The abolition of the Court of Assists therefore appears to be the only solution to satisfy these citizens. If you ask me what we should do with political crimes, I will release you in it. Would you like to keep it for the court of assists? This can be done perfectly by adjusting Article 150. But I believe that one can also think about being treated by a specialised chamber. That is, more than anything else, a political decision. What does the state's attorney's office want? We have been debating this for some time and we have thought about it. The Minister has already put forward a proposal for a system of criminal chambers. We then gave a negative opinion on this because we saw the problem of the delay of the procedure reappear. That is what we were afraid of. So we have not given a very favourable opinion on it, but we have thought about it further. In our view, there is an alternative to the treatment of murders and murders. We did not invent that alternative ourselves. That alternative was developed by a committee of experts. In our view, this alternative offers the necessary guarantees of a proper administration of justice, a fair trial with respect for the rights of the defence, a wide-ranging debate and a wide-ranging possibility of hearing witnesses and experts. I'm just gonna take a quick look at it. This may be something that needs to be discussed further in the Justice Committee, but I think it is important that the Constitutional Commission realises that a pure abolition of assists does not simply mean that these matters should be dealt with by a classical correction chamber. That was one of the criticisms, and perhaps rightly so. There may be other possibilities. In the past, the legislator has worked several times on the formula of the Court of Assistes. Unfortunately, the impact on the ground was very limited. I note that in the overview of the assists processes I have seen, there are still processes that have lasted three or four weeks. I am not talking about those which last six or eight months, such as the Habran trial or perhaps soon the terrorism trial. It's all going on for a very long time, despite the changes that have been made. I therefore see no benefit in reforming the aid procedure or in adjusting the constitutional powers of the Court of Assists. The College of Attorney General therefore sees no benefit in an additional exception for terrorist offences. In our view, there is still a great danger that new inequalities will arise in the treatment of suspects in such cases. You will say that there is no longer any possibility of unconstitutionality if this is entered in the Constitution, and that is correct, but there are also European standards. I'm afraid the shoe's gonna hang there. Thus, new conflicts of jurisdiction may arise. If a particular person is not prosecuted before the Court of Assists because the crime is terrorist, then it is not possible to rule out the fact that the terrorist character is contested and that it is ultimately found that this cannot be prevented. This can also happen when we talk about organised crime or when we look at international humanitarian law. There are therefore inequalities that will not survive the European Court of Justice test. I should therefore like to comment on the alternative proposed by the committee. More specifically, it concerns the criminal chamber, included in the draft new Code of Criminal Procedure. I believe that this draft has already been submitted to Parliament, but I do not know whether it has been formally adopted because I have not found a parliamentary number. In our view, the criminal chamber can undoubtedly provide the necessary guarantees for proper administration of justice, provided, of course, some necessary changes to the existing Code of Criminal Procedure. I understand that the matter is urgent. This should then be linked to the total or partial abolition of Article 150 of the Constitution. This should be partly done if you decided to maintain the procedure in any case for press releases and political crimes. The criminal chamber would be composed of professional judges, but in order to accommodate the sighs, a wide oral procedure is provided for at the hearing. In other words, there will be more room for hearing witnesses and experts, at least more than for a classical correction room. In this way, the public would not be deprived of the classical debate before the court of assists, but the cumbersome procedure for assembling a jury would lapse. So there would be no loss of transparency or communication with the press at all. The media could just as easily follow the course of the proceedings and, in my view, the public would be equally well informed. However, it could progress a little faster. Faster means very often also more efficient, but that is of course a trade-off that you need to make. Of course, this is particularly important. In this way, there would at last be a double predisposition and then the convicted person could appeal, as the College of Attorneys-General would say. Finally, this procedure also provides a solution to the federal prosecutor's objections to an assist in the attacks of 22 March 2016. The jury for that process cannot be a democratic representation of the composition of the population. Which employee or self-employed person can stay at their disposal for eight months? I really don't know what the composition of that jury will be like. I am not yet talking about security risks, the risk of influence or intimidation, the duration and complexity of the deliberations and the administration that will require such assistance procedures. This is much easier to solve with such a criminal chamber. To clarify and conclude, the alternative now proposed by the experts, is an idea that the Supreme Court of Justice also envisaged in its opinion on the Law of 21 December 2009 on the reform of the Court of Assists in 2011. It is not literally the same, but it was the same: the normality of the debates is preserved as well as the opposition, but there is no jury anymore. Therefore, the College of Attorneys General expressly informed the Minister of Justice in his letter of 1 October 2019, which was now sent to the press with his admission, that it is available for consultation, in particular on this possible alternative to the trial of criminal cases. I am therefore very grateful that you have given me the opportunity to explain today on behalf of the College of Attorneys General.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic124x.u3	Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank you for hearing my request and for giving me the opportunity today to explain to you why I believe – and for a long time now – that the procedure of foundations in force for more than two centuries in our country must be abolished. The point of view developed by my colleague, the President of the College of Attorneys General, was discussed within the College, i.e. with the five Attorneys General at the Court of Appeal and the Federal Prosecutor. This is therefore a joint opinion for the entire Public Prosecutor's Office. Before I look more specifically at the cases falling within the jurisdiction of my Office, however, I wanted to point out that my belief that this procedure should be abolished does not date from yesterday. Indeed, it has always seemed unique to me to have to subject to random citizens the most serious "supposed" cases subject to the penal system. The establishment of the popular jury dates back not only to a time when there was doubt about the probity of the judge, but also to a time when there was fear that the judge might be given power. These fears – in any case, I hope – are no longer relevant. I am talking about the most serious "supposed" cases, because in practice, as my colleague has already said, this is not the case. In the recent past (between 2007 and 2011), the federal trial called "Habran", which was that of a complex criminal structure where there was no hesitation in using gratuitous violence – and I repeat to you all the qualifications that had been retained: assassinations, robberies and attempted robbery with violence or threats with aggravating circumstances, attempted murder, burning of vehicles, possession of weapons of war, concealment, criminal organization and association of criminals – has already shown to be sufficient how difficult and almost impossible it was to submit such facts in their entirety to a popular jury. The first edition of this trial lasted for many months – between September and April 2009. The judgment fell on 30 March 2009. It was very complicated, both for the jury and, by their own admission, for all the other authors. For example, for the Public Prosecutor's Office, my colleague found himself at the hospital's emergency room for a while, because the pressure was very high. It was also difficult for the judges and the defence. I refer, for example, to Mr.Mary's testimony on the famous show De Zevende Dag a few weeks ago – which I think is the source of this hearing. I must quote the anecdote: I had been invited because there was a lack of politicians to tell the extent to which government negotiations were moving forward, so there was another issue that needed to be addressed. In short, it has already sufficiently demonstrated how difficult it was to submit facts in their entirety to a jury. The first edition lasted six months and was very complicated for everyone. After a first cassation following the problem of the reasons for the jury's verdict (cf. The second edition, which was held in front of the Nivelles assizes, had to be suspended for long weeks because of the illness of a judge, in order to see the verdict finally annulled by the professional judges making up the Court of Assizes. They found that "the jury erred as to the main reasons on which it based its statement as to the guilt of an accused". This decision was subsequently quashed again by a judgment of 30 March 2011. Some aspects of this river trial have therefore had to be repeated for a third time. As a result, it was a four-year procedure, with three assize courts and three judgments of the Court of Cassation. I let you imagine the figure we would make if we met the same perpetencies in the upcoming trial concerning the attacks of 22 March 2016. I will go further on this procedure to come, but I am talking about it to explain to you how inadequate the basis procedure is to adequately punish the most serious crime. The public prosecutor's offices are well aware of this and either cut cases when there has been a man's death, by putting the murder and murder in front of the assize court and the rest in front of the correctional court, or by making corrections. This means that they seek extenuating circumstances that justify having the case tried in a correctional court, rather than bringing it before a jury. We all learn, as young magistrates, that we must correct crimes, since crimes are beyond five years. You are told that mitigating circumstances are not defined in the Criminal Code, and that it is not serious, that it is sufficient simply to say that there is a lack of prior criminal conviction. I remember, as a young magistrate, that I had found myself in front of a fact and that I had told my trainee master that there was already a previous criminal conviction. He told me, "It's no big deal, so write that there are no previous two criminal convictions." That's how we were able to correct the fact. As a result, prosecutors are well aware of this and seek extenuating circumstances to bring the case before a correctional court instead of bringing it before a jury. As I mentioned, this is the case for the majority of the Foreign Terrorism Fighters who left for Syria or Iraq. The system would not tolerate all of them being brought before the foundations, as provided for in article 150 of the Constitution. This causes a fundamentally unfair situation: it is not, in the vast majority of cases, the most serious facts that go before the court of assizes. This is fundamentally unfair, especially since our assize court does not provide for an appeal. Only an appeal in cassation is possible. This has allowed it to pass the course of the European Court of Human Rights. This correction of crimes is almost systematic. I quote a somewhat old figure, which dates back to 2013, before the Geens reform. In 2013, only 81 of the 1,130,000 judgements and judgements were delivered by the Assize Court, or 0.007% of the proceedings. This correction is done by the board of counsel or directly by the correctional court in case of direct summons. It is a work in the chain of chambers of the council which could be avoided and which already weighs on the system. I wanted to draw your attention to this point. Article 25 of the Criminal Code was then applied. He usually reduces the maximum penalty prescribed by the legislator by five years, which few people know. I must admit that this particularity is particularly difficult to make clear when I try to explain it to foreign colleagues. We like surrealism in Belgium, but with this mechanism we are really the "real Magritte". In some cases, it is difficult to justify, given the atrocity of the acts committed, finding a precondition for mitigating circumstances. It is for this reason that my Office did not request correction for Mehdi Nemmouche, although it could have done so since the reference to the sittings took place when Minister Geens had passed a law extending the possibilities of correction. I would also like to point out that, since the ruling of the Constitutional Court ending this experience, the assize courts have again been engulfed. In fact, there is no longer a magistrate to preside over them, and several courts of appeal must have recourse to retired magistrates. That is also what we are thinking about the 22 March procedure. With regard to serious violations of international and humanitarian law relating primarily to the genocide of the Tutsis in Rwanda, it was therefore illusory to believe that files still open to the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office could be fixed before the deaths of suspects or key witnesses. It is therefore impunity that will triumph! This case has already occurred with the death, a few years ago, of a man accused of genocide of Tutsis or moderate Hutus in Rwanda whose case was referred to the assizes and who died before his trial. In this respect, the facts are certainly imprescriptible, but those suspected of having committed them are not immortal! In addition, the comparison between the trial of Mehdi Nemmouche et al. and the trial in the Salah Abdeslam et al. Correctional Court illustrates the debauchery of means represented by a trial of assizes. As a reminder, we brought Salah Abdeslam and Sofiane Ayari to trial in the correctional court for the shooting on Dries Street and Mehdi Nemmouche and Nacer Bendrer for the attack on the Jewish museum. These two trials concerned detainees subject to extremely strict level 4 security measures. The facts were technically very similar in terms of evidence. They were talking about shooting with automatic weapons, four deaths for Mehdi Nemmouche and several attempts to murder Belgian and French policemen with a serious wound for Salah Abdeslam and Sofiane Ayari, fugitive authors found after a few days, DNA on weapons, telephones, etc. I dare even say that for Salah Abdeslam, the facts were even a little more complicated to prove. The Nemmouche trial lasted nine weeks, while Salah Abdeslam and Sofiane Ayari's trial lasted only four days, including four days. Since the security measures taken are the same, I leave it to you to calculate the price difference between the two procedures at the level of the police services alone. I am also not talking about the disadvantages of the other trials which were to take place daily in the courthouse in Brussels, a real fortress. Salah Abdeslam and Sofiane Ayari were each sentenced to 20 years in prison, the maximum possible after correction. They were not on appeal from this decision. Were we deceived by entrusting professional judges with the task of judging them? Would they have been better judged if they had appeared before a popular jury? I'm asking the question. The seat yard weighs on the entire system and sometimes you don't realize it. I've already mentioned correction. It also monopolizes, for months, prosecutors and judges of the public prosecutor's office, who must therefore abandon their other duties and often cannot be replaced. It considerably prolongs the duration of the instructions which must be prepared in a certain way for the sitting procedure. I have already talked about the workload for the investigating courts (counsel chambers and indictments). But I can also mention, the experience of a local police chief who has just written to me: because the new chief of his intervention department, who participated in the investigation for the 22nd March trial in his former office, will have to prepare for months his testimony for the 22nd March trial, he asks who will replace him and who will have to bear the cost? Mystery! I don't know how to answer that. Another example that I myself have lived in the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office: a former investigating judge who joined the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office had to leave for several weeks to testify in trials that she herself had previously investigated as an investigating judge. Another example: to be sure of having a sufficient number of jurors, sometimes more than a hundred people are drawn by lot – as was the case with the Nemmouche trial. It is important to know that local police are then responsible for investigating each of these potential jurors, which charges the entire system. Mehdi Nemmouche's recent assize trial also allows me to highlight the difficulty for a jury to hold on throughout a long trial. In nine weeks, seven jurors withdrew for various reasons. Fortunately, twelve alternates had been summoned. One a week. It was like in Agatha Christie's Ten Little Negroes, at the end there was only one left! Fortunately, this was not the case, but we had this fear. From the first Habran assize court there were only thirteen jurors left at the time of delivery. Just one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, What would be the case for the trial of 22 March 2016 which is estimated to last about a full judicial year? I have heard a lot as an argument for maintaining the Court of Assizes, that it would be a matter of bringing the citizen closer to justice, like some ideas that are currently circulating to renew politics. Except that, as a reminder, the jurors do not participate voluntarily in the court of assizes. They have to be here. And if they are not challenged, the experience they are experiencing may be interesting but often experienced as traumatic. One of my acquaintances who took part in a jury a few years ago explained to me that she had not slept for weeks. Apart from the heavy responsibility to judge, it is a matter of diving into sordid files where everything is explained in the slightest detail. The recent statements on Facebook of a juror following the verdict of a sitting trial in Leuven are sufficient themselves to demonstrate that this emotional burden is complicated to deal with. Je la cite: "I'm really devastated. Gebroken [["]] It's mentioned in his Facebook statements. The longer the length of the trial, the greater the danger to jurors. However, according to the current law, the names of the jurors – and even their addresses – are known from the beginning of the proceedings and are mentioned at the bottom of the conviction order. I have here the sentence of Mehdi Nemmouche, you see the names of all the jurors. I have here the judgment of conviction of Habran, you see the names of all the jurors. The address is also known, although sometimes the prosecutor's office and professional judges use some tricks to prevent these addresses being communicated to people other than defence lawyers. But one could imagine a case where someone is not represented by a lawyer and accesses the addresses of the jurors. In any case, it is something that must absolutely change! Even if you don't change the jury, that's something I wanted to draw your attention to. In addition, the longer the length of the trial, the more pressure may be placed on jurors. This is one of the reasons why the College of Attorneys General had given a negative opinion to the draft criminal chamber that had been presented by Minister Geens following the ruling of the Constitutional Court, on the understanding that the bill provided for the jurors to read the case before – which would take weeks – with the assistance of a magistrate. This means that the names of the jurors were known before the trial, which obviously increases the risk of pressure on the jurors. The longer the trial is, the more known the jurors are and the more likely you are to put pressure on the jurors. The question of the remuneration of a juror should be stressed. If the juror is a wage-earner, the law of 3 July 1978 is applied. It provides for the right to a guaranteed remuneration for five days. The worker has the right to be absent with the maintenance of the normal remuneration of his employer for the time necessary with a maximum of five days – this is called low unemployment. In order to receive his remuneration during these five days of low unemployment, the worker must notify his employer in advance, and as soon as possible in the event that a prior warning proves impossible. If the trial lasts longer, then there is force majeure, i.e. beyond these five days of low unemployment, the employment contract remains suspended – fortunately, it cannot be broken – because of force majeure and there are then two possibilities. Either the employer continues to pay his worker's salary and will receive an allowance (daily gross salary + social contributions) from the SPF Justice. However, the employer will have to apply to the President of the Assize Court. Either the employer no longer pays remuneration and the state will pay the salary directly to the jurors. But in any case, it is the state that pays the salary. I would add an important point: there is no insurance coverage in the event of an accident on the way to the seat yard or in the event of an accident during a session. Mons has experienced two similar cases. That's why I wanted to draw your attention. So this is for civil servants and employees. What about the self-employed? The independent juror receives an allowance equal to 1/20th of the annual professional income taken from the last warning extracted from the role to which are added the social security contributions paid. Nothing! As a result, a jury that, contrary to the essence of the assize court, no longer represents society in all its diversity, since we have fairly few different profiles (teachers, civil servants, unemployed, young retirees since the limit is 65 years). I say it with great respect because my parents are teachers too. Finally, I come more specifically to the procedure for the trial of the attacks of 22 March 2016. The planned length of this procedure is also due mainly to the involvement of a jury but also to the number of accused and victims who will all have the right to speak. In view of the time that this trial will take, if the assize procedure is to be maintained, it is absolutely important to triple the number of alternate jurors so as not to find ourselves, at some point, in the face of a shortage of jurors. This will make more than 30 government-paid salaries for six to nine months. But it is absolutely necessary. As I have already said, when you have to perform a heavy surgery, you don't give a scalpel to twelve people chosen at random on the street. This statement has nothing to do with the so-called condescending look of a magistrate who would look at the people from his pedestal. I would like to stress that. The assessment of the facts requires legal knowledge which many members of the jury do not have and also requires the evaluation of many legal concepts, in accordance with the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation and even of the European Court of Human Rights. And I take as an example the recent debate in the Nemmouche case on the difference between "correctity" and "complicity" where many people have learned what "correctity" meant. In oral proceedings, the different parties (public prosecutor's office, civil party, accused) adopt different and sometimes contradictory views which they defend with force, rhetoric and passion before the uninitiated judges who often find themselves lost and disoriented. In addition, many files currently refer to complex investigative techniques with which jury members are logically not familiar. These techniques must then be explained at the hearing, which implies a waste of time and the risk that the Board will draw erroneous conclusions. In addition, the jury does not have prior access to the case file, as it would require the assistance of one or more magistrates to read it, which would monopolize a magistrate for months before the trial. It is therefore necessary to reexplain everything in every detail so that it becomes aware of all the useful elements during the trial. These are autopsy reports, expert reports, various testimonies. These things are not normally done, unless necessary, in the correctional court. The impact of this unpacking on victims should not be overlooked. Recent trials have shown how badly many of them have experienced this. This has been experienced as an unbearable invasion of their privacy. Furthermore, since the board is not familiar with the reasoning of a judgment and the technique used to do so, the systems of the Assize Court provide for the writing of questions by the president. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these are questions that the jury will have to answer by yes or no in order to form the verdict on guilt. A separate question, according to the Code of Criminal Investigation, must be asked for each accused, for each main fact of which he is accused. Sections 323 et seq. of the Code of Criminal Investigation even set out the issues. Article 323: "Is the accused guilty of committing such murder, theft or other crime?" Then, for every aggravating circumstance. Article 324 of the Code of Criminal Investigation: "Did the accused commit the crime under any circumstances?" Finally, for any cause of apology requested by the accused or the Attorney General or the Federal Prosecutor, section 325 of the Code of Criminal Investigation sets out the question: "When the accused has proposed for excuse a fact admitted as such by law, the question is thus asked: Is this a constant fact?" In practice, therefore, this is likely to be a question per element of qualification per accused and per victim. This was done during the Nemmouche trial. The difficulty here lies in the fact that the precise number of victims is difficult to delimit in the 22 March procedure. The French are also facing the same problem for the attacks in Nice and Paris. For the deceased, unfortunately, there is no problem and no discussion possible for them. But who is the victim of an attempted terrorist assassination? All the people in the airport lobby? Only those who were close to the suicide bombers? Those who went back to the airport right after and saw the carnage? Members of the relief services, some of whom have been traumatized? The one who was on the lower floor and was disfigured by the burning air that came out of the elevator when the door opened? Can all these people be qualified as victims of an attempted terrorist assassination? These questions are not obvious. The French, for example, in Nice, had to establish a perimeter, about 100 meters to the left and right of the truck, to say that those people who are in this perimeter are victims, the others not. It's a choice from the French prosecutor's office. We'll see if the court follows. This explains why it is not possible to ask the jury in one question whether X committed an attempted terrorist assassination on 800 people. If the proceedings prove that there were in fact only 795 victims, or rather 805, then the jury will have to answer no to the question. Et alors:Houston, we have a problem! In principle, therefore, case law makes it possible to ask one question per accused person and one question per victim. This is the case-law of the Brussels Assize Court, for example. The same reasoning can be followed for the various elements of the crime charged, as I said before. Is the accused a perpetrator or accomplice? Is this a deliberate homicide? Is there a premeditation? Is this a terrorist context? Is that an attempt? If you multiply all these questions by the number of accused, eight in principle, since eight persons are requested to be returned to the assize court, and by 800 victims, this gives 8X800X6 elements of offence included in the indictment, i.e., for prevention alone, 38,400 questions to be asked of the jury. I read that a lawyer for an accused who is being requested to be referred to the Correctional Court is absolutely determined to go to the Assize Court. It could be ten anyway. The court may of course take the risk of not asking some of these questions, since it is the president of the court who decides to formulate the questions, but this opens up possibilities for the defence of cassation at a later stage. How long will the president of the court take to draft these 38,400 questions? How long will the jury take to answer it? How long will the verdict take? Throughout the deliberations, the jury will be housed in a hotel that will guarantee certain conditions of security and isolation. For the last sitting trial concerning the genocide in Rwanda, it was The Hotel, a four-star hotel. This was also a significant cost, especially since in that case the airline tickets, suitcases and other items of witnesses who had to come from Africa had to be paid. So, ladies and gentlemen, I could develop further arguments, but I think you have understood the essentials. The foundation procedure unnecessarily overburdens justice, which lacks resources. She doesn't bring any added value to me. However, the expressed request to delete the popular jury should not be confused with the question of maintaining a certain orality of the procedure, of the hearing of certain witnesses, etc. Indeed, this allows everyone to look at the quality of the work done by investigators and the human context of the facts. There is no reason not to keep a certain orality of the procedure before the professional judges, as my colleague has said. This will bring the citizen closer to justice, as will the time and means gained with the abolition of this procedure, which will be devoted to making justice more effective than it is today. I would also like to stress that it is not appropriate for me to abolish the procedure of laying the foundations for the accused of terrorism alone. Exception procedures are not to be recommended. I would like, please, not to have to meet before you in a year or two to explain to you that the trial of the perpetrators of the Walloon Brabant killings is unmanageable by a court of assizes, given the million pages of the case, the more than thirty years of investigation and the statute of limitations that is approaching. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic124x.u4	Thank you for your statements and I give the floor to colleagues who wish to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic124x.u5	Madam President, Mr Van Leeuw and Mr Dernicourt, thank you for coming to our committee and again for exposing the arguments about the Court of Assists. In the previous legislature, we have often discussed the Court of Assists in Parliament. We have organised hearings in the Committee on Justice, which we have heard opinions for and against. Once again, you have clearly listed all the arguments. I think that most of our Members, especially the members of the Committee on Justice, already know these arguments. It concerns, among other things, the process-economic aspect, the fact that staff and judges are withdrawn from ordinary courts of correction, the complexity of the case and so on, I do not need to repeat it all. Our party is in favour of the abolition of the Court of Assists by the lifting of Article 150 of the Constitution. Our position is neither new nor motivated by the process of terrorist attacks that is coming. Mr Van Leeuw, you have outlined very well that all the disadvantages are now very exposed. I have two specific questions for clarification. Firstly, I hear that you are not in favour of exception legislation and do not just want to exclude terrorist cases from treatment before the Court of Assists. However, we need a two-thirds majority for the amendment of the Constitution, a large majority. After approval, the constitutional change must go from the Chamber to the Senate and then return to the Chamber. Mr Dernicourt, if I have understood you correctly, you fear possible problems at European level when we amend the Constitution only in view of terrorist offences. Mr Van Leeuw, perhaps you can also express your opinion on this. My second question is also a very practical one. I understand that the process of the attacks can take place in about a year and a half if the process is not delayed due to procedural reasons. I suppose everything is being prepared to organise that process properly. Everything must also be ready from a legal point of view. By when will Parliament at the latest have to amend the Constitution, provided that this new legislation is introduced? By when should all this legislative work be completed? From a legal point of view, I would also like to ask you whether an adaptation to the Constitution has any immediate effect. The debate is broader than just the process of terrorist attacks, as major processes will come towards us, for which the abolition of assists can also apply. If we can work faster and perhaps find a narrowing majority, either for terrorist crimes alone or for the whole of which we are in favour, then it may be useful to keep a timetable in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic124x.u6	Madam President, Mr Van Leeuw and Mr Dernicourt, thank you for your clarification. You are both in favour of abolition. I would just like to point out that the proposal on the new Criminal Code under discussion in the Committee on Justice does indeed provide for the highest levels 7 and 8, which are offences punishable by 30 years of imprisonment and life imprisonment respectively. These are crimes that are now going to assists, namely murder and manslaughter. However, the new Criminal Code also assumes that these crimes will be dealt with by the courts, without the law being able or allowed to regulate them explicitly. That is indeed not a matter for criminal law but for criminal law. The experts involved in drafting the new Criminal Code have stated this explicitly in this way. Thank you very much for the very clear exposé for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic124x.u7	Madam President, our group also wishes to thank the speakers for their desire to give the full explanation today. The debate has been going on for some time now. The arguments are often known. Nevertheless, it is useful to hear a summary of the arguments for an hour and a half. You have made a plea for complete abolition. Mrs Van Vaerenbergh has already pointed out that Parliament needs a two-thirds majority. Mrs Van Vaerenbergh's last question is the most important one. She also reflects our concern. That is the question of whether, in your view, at the current stage of the process of 22 March 2020, it is still practically possible, in terms of timing, to amend the law or to implement that amendment of the Constitution so that we do not have any legal problems in this area. You know better than we do the state of play for the process of 22 March 2020. Will this legislation be amended in good time? Can some defense lawyers who have already stated in the press that they will not take it if there is a constitutional change? I would have liked to have heard your opinion on that problem. A second question concerns a question that arises if we do not achieve complete abolition. Mr Van Leeuw has already referred to a number of necessary legal changes that are urgently needed to change the process of assisting and to provide more protection to jurors, which I do believe to be very urgent and very necessary, especially in terms of anonymity and wage protection. Are there any other examples of such legislative changes that are urgently needed if the assistance procedure is to be retained for a certain part so that it can be modernised? If we do not achieve a complete abolition, however, I do not think you will answer this question: what matters should you avoid as a priority, because perhaps we should not just talk about terrorist crimes? I heard Mr Dernicourt refer to press crime which many parties see is not intended to bring before assists. Are there any definitions or qualifications of crimes that you would like to avoid from assists if we do not come to a complete abolition of them? Finally, apart from all the financial and practical problems and objections, which seem to me to be very legitimate, I do not misunderstand why I should like to ask again whether a correctional process can give the same satisfaction and guarantees to victims. Mr Dernicourt referred to the limited period during which the legislative amendment was applied. He was very positive about that, but was it the same for the victims themselves? Do you have any idea? Of course, no one is insensitive to the argument of dual predisposition and the possibility of appeal which is not currently available to the Court of Assists, but I had a thought. In any case, the process of 22 March will take a long time. You referred to possible legal problems that might arise and the fact that assists might need to be redone. You referred to another process which would require us to come three or four times for assists, which would certainly be a horror scenario. If we are correcting a case, I assume that almost always someone will appeal in such proceedings. If it is not a victim, then it is a perpetrator or a suspect who will be able to extend the time limit again and we will have a serious period of time again because we have two procedures to carry out. That is what I was thinking: we will not be working for nine months, but for a longer period of time if an appeal is made. Finally, a personal thought: I have a great deal of respect for Mr Dernicourt's arguments that an assistance process is often carried out in the media, which is not always interesting, but I have great doubts that this would not happen if we were to correct a case. The media attention to the process of March 22, for passionate murders often followed by society or for the euthanasia process would be as great in an assist process as in a correctional process. Those were my group's reservations, but we will think very carefully about this in the coming weeks and look together with the others at what is possible to ensure that the process of 22 March is conducted properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic124x.u8	Madam President, gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you for your very comprehensive presentations and your arguments, which do not seem to suffer any hesitation as to the appropriateness of abolishing the court of seats. We can hear a number of arguments that I think are the most important. For others, we'll be a little more nuanced than you were. As legislators, we are often accused of legislating according to the circumstances. Yesterday, with the federal prosecutor, we were still wondering about this. In this case, it is clear that the circumstances are very important since they are attacks. But if we have to legislate, let's do it in a global way. Indeed, this dossier is in the cartons and has been the subject of reflection for a number of years. There's an argument that's come back a lot and I can't hear. This is the one which is to say that we can no longer organize trials during sittings because of the lack of resources. I think we're taking the problem backwards. It is known that the issue of the financing of justice will be a central point of the next government to be put in place. In doing so, before we say that we are no longer in a position to organize assize trials for lack of resources, let us start by financing justice and see if the means allocated to the assize court are too important compared to the other issues. You said that, basically, there is a question of good or bad judgment. We have the impression that you are a little on the defensive on the assumption that it is your judgment that is contested, based on the principle that the citizens would render judgments more in line with the will of the people. But that's not the point. As legislators, there is an important point that we must take into account, as is the case in all matters. In fact, at some point the citizen's participation must be greater; he must be able to appropriate himself, to know a number of things on which he wishes to have a certain grip. This is a relatively important argument in a context of distrust of institutions, politics, justice and the media. Indeed, one cannot, with one side of the hand, say that it is simply a matter of competence or not. It is also known that the juries that have come together do so with great seriousness and intelligence, even if the explanations take time. But it also seems to me to be part of the file. I would like to ask you if there was any intermediate formula between the total deletion and the seat yard in its current wording. In France, in particular, there are more intermediate formulae. It is important for us to be able to keep the orality of the debates. Here too, there is a certain "appropriation" of the citizen. The word "control" may be too strong. I think that the word "appropriation" is what is needed in relation to court decisions. So there is the orality and the fact of having a number of witnesses. And we know that in correctional, at the moment, these two sides are a little bothering the magistrates. This is often what we hear, and we therefore shorten all these elements that are important to us. Is there not an intermediate formula, halfway, that would take into account the imperatives that you are referring to and to which we cannot be insensitive? The one that strikes me the most is the fact that every time we try to find extenuating circumstances and, therefore, we do not fulfil the objective we want to pursue, namely to punish serious crimes. However, that argument must be heard. It must of course also be understood that this requires important additional resources. But this is the other side, it seems to me, of the more global refinancing of justice. Can we therefore not work in an intermediate formulation? This will inevitably and surely involve an amendment to Article 150. Whether there are six or twelve jurors, the constraints you have mentioned will be the same. I can hear him. But is this also the case with professional judges, with a mixed partner or with an appropriate procedure in which the citizen finds himself? Indeed, in the name of this imperative – whether it is for the "terrorism" trials or the others, but perhaps even more so for the former, because each Belgian has been hit by these attacks – we should be able to find an intermediate formula. So my question is this: do you see such a formula, since you did not mention any pure and simple deletion, without a modality?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic124x.u9	Madam President, I would like to thank the two speakers not only for their presentation, but also for their daily work, which is essential in a democracy. I want to assure them of our respect for their work. Gentlemen, your remarks are very clear and are not new, as they fit in with the function you perform. Three debates are behind what you have outlined. The first concerns the means that justice is given to operate in the cases you are in charge of, but also in financial crime, or from the point of view of families that cannot be dealt with sufficiently quickly and effectively. That is the issue of the accessibility of justice. You have traced the history of the Assize Court and the reasons for the orality of these procedures to enable citizens to understand the events. However, as you have indicated, when we are witnessing a lengthy trial of assizes, it is not because it is oral that it is suddenly simple or because the legal vocabulary becomes more easily accessible. This is a question that we must be able to answer – regardless of the future of the Assize Court. Another question that arises is that of the democratization of justice, in the form of citizen participation symbolized in the court of assizes by the popular jury. That being said, you have also shown the limits today, in the context of the very heavy issue that you have to deal with, Mr Van Leeuw. I'd like to ask you three questions about that. First of all, you said that exceptional legislation was not desirable and that it would even be potentially attackable at European level by those who would feel that they were harmed by a tailor-made legislative amendment in the light of their trial. In this context, a much more fundamental reform could be decided, namely the abolition of the Court of Assizes. However, it could also be estimated that, as soon as it intervenes now, it would be based – and you are here to talk about it – on this trial that is being announced. So there's a risk. However, if a general measure is taken, it is decided just before a trial is announced. In connection with this, it is important for us to know your calendar well. When do you think you can be ready? A sitting trial does not prepare as a correctional trial. When should you know how you will have to judge these very serious facts, which are inscribed in our memory and which are painful for everyone? The question has been asked, but it is fundamental in view of the work which is possibly to be organised at the level of this parliamentary committee and then in the context of a very specific procedure which applies to amend the Constitution. This clarification is useful for the continuation of our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic124x.u10	Madam President, I thank our two speakers for their strong plea for the abolition of this ancestral institution, the Court of Assizes. Gentlemen, as you have said and repeated, this is the opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is firm, very well carpented and very well argued. But, first of all, he arrives at a little happy moment, it seems to me. I want proof that a daily newspaper recently titled:Attents of Brussels: the terrorists could have the skin of the jury of seats. It's a perverse effect of the chosen momentum. Secondly, I cannot help but think that it is less because of the particular nature of the functioning of the assize court than because of the alleged length of the trial that will take place, its cost, and therefore all the peripheral disadvantages (availability, choice of jurors, etc.). that this plea comes into play. I have not heard him often in so-called "classical" trials that take up to four to five days. It bothers me a little. Mr Van Leeuw, you have mentioned France on several occasions. How do our French neighbours react, faced with a very similar problem and in a fairly close schedule? Do they react like you? I understand that in France there is a special assize court, without a jury. I ask you to shed some light on this point of reflection on the establishment of a special assize court for terrorist crimes. Moreover, and you will have understood it by hearing me, our political formation does not favour the suppression of the court of assizes pure and simple, but rather its modernization. We are at a time when it is increasingly being invoked and, rightly, citizen participation. It has always seemed to me, as a lawyer also (I pleaded several times sitting a long time ago), that the sitting jury is a good exercise of citizen participation. And I never met a jury who came out of such a trial without having been enriched by this experience. If we do not follow you by moving towards a pure and simple abolition but rather towards a modernisation of the Court of Assizes, what priorities would you see as being to be implemented within the framework of a modernisation and, in the same tone as my colleague from the Open Vld, to which types of crimes should we reserve the Court of Assizes, and not from which crimes should we remove it? These are the questions I wanted to ask you at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic124x.u11	Madam President, I would like to thank both speakers. I would like to ask a few brief questions, with the observation that my colleagues have also made, but which I will say a little less kindly, namely that we have been looking at this since September 2016, but that we are not prepared in March 2020. I will not take up the debate on the Court of Assists entirely or not, but I do ask what we should do in the run-up to the process of the attacks. Once the AI will have referred to the court of assists, we are too late. This means that, as far as I am concerned, the whole debate on the constitutional change itself may not be the one in which we have to spend most of our time now because it is probably not feasible, apart from the two-thirds majority required. Then the first question is what Parliament is doing best. It's been almost four years, and we're not prepared yet. What do we do best? Should we still consider providing for an exception to be made to correct, with the problems raised or, and that is my supplementary question, because the first question has also been asked by my colleagues, what happened to the idea of criminal chambers? Can Parliament assume that the criminal chambers are in line with what the Constitution allows, with a jury, a possible solution that avoids many of the disadvantages you have brought? Why didn't those criminal chambers get here? Is that, perhaps truthfully, because there was little enthusiasm for that within the magistrate? If we are dealing with a complex issue, as Mr Van Leeuw said at the end, and he has to come here within a few years to say that the assistance process has gone wrong in relation to the attacks, then what is it? That process, it is said, will cost about EUR 20 million, and that for the Justice Department, which lacks a great deal of resources. It's gonna cost more, that's how it always works. What should we decide in the short term to prevent all these problems from occurring? What other solution is there, then, to discuss the abolition of the Court of Assists? After all, we may not make it. As a result, I have two further small questions. Firstly, it is difficult to ask for a figure, but can you tell me how often it occurs that a terromism cannot be corrected? Does that happen very often or very rarely? Secondly, what is less in the discourse is not preparing a legal setting to conduct the process in the most workable, feasible and affordable way, we know, but what we have often heard here in hearings and testimonies over the past few months is, especially in terro, that there is still a problem of evidence collection. One can create as much context as one wants to conduct the judicial process, but the evidence collection remains a major problem. That's what we've been told time and time again. Has that changed in the meantime? Is there going to be any change? The latter is more a question for the future, but my main question concerns the short term, with the process of attacks. What are we supposed to do? I even go a little further: I find it difficult to believe that before the AI will be referred, we would be able to get the constitutional change through, if that were already a slope. But then what?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic124x.u12	Madam President, I too would like to thank the speakers for their very clear and precise presentations. We see that the position is a plea for the abolition of the court of seats. I'd just like to express a regret, or rather a question. Since we are discussing the abolition of the assize court, I would have liked to hear other voices from the judiciary to have a clearer view. Above all, I have an incomprehension since this afternoon we will be discussing the order of business to hold hearings on Article 150 of the Constitution. It's a question, but I'm not going to dwell much on it. Since you've made it clear, gentlemen, I'll be very clear too. We are against the abolition of the Assize Court, particularly because the Assize Court is the only place where there is popular participation in judicial decision-making. We are committed to the democratization of justice, to the fact that the people can also have their place in the justice system of our country, and above all to trials as important and as serious as the one to be held in 2022. The issue of terrorism is a social problem. I think it is wise for the public to get involved in this debate and participate in this discussion, and why not also in decision-making at the judicial level. That is why we support the maintenance of the Assize Court and the People's Jury. Nevertheless, I have been sensitive to many of your arguments – and less to others. We need a modernization of the assize court. We are fully open to a legislative review of this section. You have given some concrete examples, including the number of questions that arise. I would like to ask one or two questions, to see in which direction we can consider modernization. Can we not group together, or consider an exception for sections 323, 324, 325 of the Code of Criminal Investigation for proceedings before the Assize Court? Can't we make an exception for the assize court? As regards the reading of the minutes and so on, it is true that the procedure dates back 200 years. The conditions were different. Many people were illiterate at the time, and the minutes had to be read. Can't we optimize this instead of removing the seat yard? As for the question of financing, we have a structural problem for the whole of justice. Our justice is well below the European average compared to our neighbours. So, using the problem of the financing of justice as justification for the removal of the only really popular court in which there is a popular jury, I find that it is taking the problem through the wrong end. The other problem with justice is that it lacks resources. I think we need to plead instead to give our Department of Justice more power than to abolish the Court of Assize because it is expensive. If we go along with that logic, how many courses are we going to take off? How many judicial institutions are we going to suppress because it costs money? Since there is a continuous disinvestment in our justice, where are we going to stop? I think it is necessary to take the problem in the other direction: what does our justice need to function well in order for it to meet the challenges of our society and what are the means necessary to make it functional? I think if we want to talk about financing...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic124x.u13	Two billion! We need two billion! If you can give them to me, I agree and I'm not going back to you anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic124x.u14	I fully agree with you that we have to fight to get those two billions. But the shortfall of two billion must not justify a change in our judicial institutions. We must help them to have the two billions and not to remove institutions because there are not two billions. I think we take the problem through the wrong end and if you plead for a reorganisation of justice, I will be quite on your side to plead with you. On the other hand, for the abolition of the Court of Assizes, I would like to see the existence of a popular jury and to keep or at least democratize our judicial service even more.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic124x.u15	Madam President, in my turn I would like to thank the two speakers for the professional filleting of the current procedure of the Court of Assists. When we are sick and we end up in a hospital, we like to be helped by a physician who speaks with knowledge. Democracy also has its rights. The various presentations today show that people have been in a court of assistants, have argued and know how it works from their own experience. And then there are others, I say this with the greatest respect, who try empathically to live in what the court of assists is. An assistive procedure is an 18th-century procedure. I've been through some assist cases, both on the side of the victims and on the side of the perpetrators. This is an important toolbox and a democratic signal, but the fact is that we have an inappropriate instrument here. The needs of time have changed. An assistive procedure, however democratically inspired, has its limits. At these limits, we're colliding today, in a very confrontational way. It is good that you say that 38 000 questions need to be asked so that people know. Anyone who has ever been in a court of assists debate knows that the lawyers must go away for weeks before knowing what the verdict will be. The jury has to go into quarantine for months, not to say weeks. That is the inadmissibility of that procedure. That must be the starting point. How can we help you? We're not here to amplify people. We're here to make laws. How can we deal with this as soon as possible? I speak against what Mr Crombez says, that nothing has happened here since September 2016. No, that judgment of the Constitutional Court is even of 21 December 2017. It is true that steps have been taken. It is not an easy debate either. I believe that your demand for the modernisation of the procedure is an emergency call that you are launching from your authority. It's all connected, of course. In fact, you referred, thank you for that, Mr Van Leeuw, to another, very painful, difficult file from the Gang of Nivelles. I would also like to ask for the procedures to be modernised at the level of magistrate. I find it incomprehensible that in the file of the Gang of Nivelles there is only one investigating judge with legal authority. Imagine that lady getting sick or unavailable. We must not think about that in such a procedure. I think that we should conduct the debate on modernising justice with the initiatives that are in place with the new penal code as much as possible. The question is very specific: how can we help you in the short term? I have heard other Members say that they are opposed to the abolition of the Court of Assists, given democratic participation, but what will be done in the event of impunity for those who drive democracy to its foundations? Will these people be left unpunished? Will proceedings take place with two or three courts of assistants? You don't want that, do you? We are here to protect the people and to legitimise and support democratic values. How can we remedy it in the short term? The Constitution is one thing, but what can we do in the short term, in a European perspective and taking into account the criteria of reasonable time, equality and retroactivity? We will almost have to make tailor-made legislation. There's almost no other way. The abolition of Article 150 is one thing, but we must replace it with something else. How do you see that criminal room? Much remains to be discussed, but how can we move forward in the short term with this criminal chamber? That is what we need to focus on. How exactly do you see that criminal chamber? Thank you for your enlightening insights.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic124x.u16	Madam Chair, gentlemen, I thank you for your presentations, which were no longer clear. We already knew your views on this issue, but it is always interesting to hear them again, to debate them in our assembly, and to compare our views. Indeed, as far as my DeFI party is concerned, I do not share your point of view in its radicality, in the sense that you plead for the abolition of the court of seats. I would also like to point out that we had hearings in the previous Parliament on this same issue, and that the opinions were much more contrasted than those before us today. I would like to go back to the three major criticisms that you have generally expressed about the assize court and that you have come back to. This concerns the fact that a popular jury is required to decide on the most serious offences, the cost involved in these proceedings before the Assize Court and the fact that there is no appeal foreseen for the judgements handed down in the Assize Court. As far as the jury is concerned, you went back to the genesis of the reasons that led to the establishment of this jury, and to the reasons that prompted the constituent to make sure that it was included in our Constitution in 1831. I think the reasons that made this jury necessary at the time are still justified today. They are even more justified at a time when people are still wary of our judicial power, especially in view of the weakness of the resources allocated to it. It is still difficult to obtain decisions within a reasonable time. The Assize Court is called upon to judge attacks that have affected the entire population. The whole population therefore feels concerned about the cases to be dealt with by the Court of Assizes. As Mr Pivin has pointed out, we are at a time when the citizen needs to become more involved in democracy in general, and therefore to feel concerned by all of our three powers, including the judiciary. I come to my questions. In particular, you pointed out the jury's lack of legal knowledge, despite the training provided for its members. You have pointed out that these training courses are very long and that they actually lead to a complexity of this procedure. Still, the recent law has provided for a system of skewing, schooling with juries. The three professional magistrates intervene by being associated with the jurors, both at the time of sentencing and at the time of the deliberations on guilt. This is a great novelty that has been introduced into the recent law. Have you been able to evaluate this skeining system? Does it not make it possible to compensate for the length and complexity resulting from the need to train the members of this jury in advance? I would also like to ask you whether you have considered the possibility of reducing the number of jurors, knowing that – this was stressed by constitutionalist Marc Verdussen during his hearing during the previous parliamentary term – one could have this reflection based on the principle that the number of jurors should be sufficient to reflect the general public. I would therefore like to have your opinion on this. In addition, you pointed out the cumbersome procedure relating to the composition of the jury. Should we not think about simplifying this procedure rather than considering its abolition from the outset? As far as the jury is concerned, the merits of the sitting procedure, which guarantees the orality of the proceedings, transparency in terms of respect for the rights of the defence and the rights of the victim, are highly praised. This was recently observed at the trial of the Jewish Museum in Belgium. But another argument is very little advanced and I would like to have your opinion on it. Can you say that a judgment that is rendered by citizens rather than professionals (three judges or even a judge since the chambers have been generalized with one judge) is much better accepted by both the public and the accused? This is how I get to the cost of trials in the assize court. You have argued in favour of abolishing this court because, in your view, it would make the procedure faster and more efficient. But if that were the case, the cases currently being dealt with by the assize court should be dealt with by other chambers, either by the correctional chambers or by other chambers that we should create, which will de facto entail costs. Indeed, it will be necessary to continue to maintain the orality of the debates and to ensure the safety of the places of justice. As these costs continue to exist, how would the new procedure be more efficient and faster? I would like to point out here that speed is not necessarily the guarantee of good justice for all victims to be heard. I am personally very much in contact with the associations of victims of attacks and all of them tell me that it is extremely important for them to be able to express themselves, that this is part of their reconstruction process. So, power...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic124x.u17	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic124x.u18	The oral nature of the proceedings before the sitting procedure allows all these victims to be heard, while bearing in mind that the length of the hearings of witnesses and victims can be shortened, in particular by the institution of groups of lawyers, which was the case at the initiative of several associations of victims. I believe that there is already an effort to rationalize which is being made by the recent initiatives of associations of victims of attacks. In conclusion, I wanted to go back to our criticism of the assize court, which is the absence of appeal, the absence of appeal against the judgements of the assize court. Neither the Constitution nor the European Convention on Human Rights impose this level of appeal, but I can quite agree that this can contribute to the demands of a proper administration of justice and to the demands of equality between litigants, depending on whether they are brought to trial before a court of assize or a correctional court or other type of jurisdiction. Several solutions have been issued by several personalities from the judicial or academic world: either to bring an appeal of full jurisdiction before a new court – this has been done in France with a new criminal chamber composed only of professional magistrates – or to extend the current appeal in cassation – I do not say that this solution has my preference but it has been issued by some experts. I wanted to have your feeling about these leads since I assume that if you pleaded for the removal of the court of seats, you first examined more reasonable leads, in any case more balanced.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic124x.u19	Madam President, I wanted to thank the speakers and apologize to them. I do not have the gift of ubiquity, I have had to run from committee to committee and I have not been able to attend all the debates. Fortunately, much of this has been told to me. Many things have been said here by the various colleagues. Here, it is useful to recall a position, that is to say, that we are a priori in favour of the development and modernization of the Court d'Assizes. There are real questions about the popular jury. I think there's some pros and cons, even though I heard a lot of cons when I was still here. There is concern over a particular trial, the trial of the 22 March attacks. That is entirely legitimate. But the reform of the Court of Assizes, if it must be thought of, cannot be thought only in the context of this procedure. She must think of herself in the context of long time. It must be thought of in the context of long time, but we are in a short time, since 18 months, even if it is long, it is fast at once. We know how difficult it is, and it takes time, to legislate, to put in place the tools and to ensure that the procedure is in conformity. This is all the more so since a whole series of procedures and judicial acts have already been laid in the context of the 22 March attack trial. I want to ask a very simple and very complex question at the same time. In this ambivalence between short time and long time, since the Assize Court, and any court, is above all the guarantor of rights and not the guarantor of security, how can we ensure that for this specific procedure, one can reform, in a useful, complete and definitive or quasi-final way, since it is never an unfinished work, but while finally respecting all the procedural rights of the persons prosecuted, in the context of the attacks of 22 March, and of all those that will be pursued after? Other trials will also be affected by the reform that we are going to put in place, for which instructions have already been issued. I do not see today how it is possible to reform – but that is why I am asking the question – without affecting these fundamental rights. Or how can we make adjustments if it is not a matter of reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic124x.u20	I will reply very briefly and then give the floor to Mr Van Leeuw. In the end, the most urgent thing is how to organise the process of attacks properly. When I hear it all, everyone is basically right or at least part of the truth. The Supreme Court found in writing ten years ago that countries without a court of assists and without the operation of a jury may have a jury even without a court of assists; in Germany, such a system does not aim to introduce it, whereas countries where the system exists are almost unconvincing that it is no longer necessary. It's just almost baked into the genes, I'd say. The transition from one to another is very difficult. The vision put forward here by several partners is that that is indeed 18th-century. Should we throw away the 18th century now, so to speak, is the question. It was a good system: it was democratic, with civic participation. I do not want to end up in the political debate. I think we all agree that civic participation is a democracy. However, we are dealing with reality. The reality is exactly where Candidate was wrong about Voltaire: he thought he lived in the best of the worlds. The reality is that society today does not offer what the citizen wants. There may be a number of people in a court of assists and be satisfied about that, and probably many others too. Personally, I think that is fantastic, but there is the reality that there are no means of doing so. I am making some abstraction for the case concerning the acts of terrorism, and Mr Van Leeuw's case is really a very special matter, which makes it all very complex. There are arguments for the House, Garden and Kitchen murder coming before the Court of Assists, as is the case today, and the people who are in favour of conservation are right to allow citizens to participate in it. I would just like to repeat that we have more than just these matters; there are other things, which are very serious and sometimes more serious, which do not come before assists and which need to be dealt with. It makes me really uncomfortable, as I said last time in the Committee on Justice, that things are happening like in Antwerp, because we cannot deal with it all by the means available. 'Cause that's what's gonna happen eventually. Discussing whether a room could be closed or not, the reality is that it was closed, because there were some people who weren't. Perhaps the magistrates in question should have reacted differently, or perhaps they should have dealt with the matter before closing the Chamber. Anyway, one of the problems was the means. The means do not allow to do everything equally well. So one has to look for solutions. The College of Attorneys General proposes to stop with a formula from the 18th century and save on it. We don't think it's necessary anymore. That's not political thinking. We are asked to work in a different way. There is a huge difference in security and the immunity of magistrates for a procedure that lasts three days compared to a procedure that lasts two, three or four weeks. I am not talking about an eight-month procedure. Our advice is based on the idea that we should stop doing so, because the funds are not being made available. This point may be political. I started when the magistrate didn't have a computer and we had to bring a computer. We have evolved, but we live in an expensive society. We can't help it. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's If you give more resources now, then there will again be too little. One would not accept a plumber becoming an electrician or an electrician becoming a plumber. It would not be acceptable for a plumber to be visited if the electricity had to be restored or vice versa. However, we ask the citizen to help us and the judges to drop one, their core business, to do something else. Philosophically one can say that it is normal and that it is part of the assists process in itself, but I sometimes find it intellectually difficult to remove people from doing something else. I am indeed the college is very clear about this against exceptions, because the solution was put in place here by some of you. I heard it blowing. There is probably a two-thirds majority in favour of an exception for a terrorism process and possibly even for organised crime and international humanitarian law, but is it acceptable that we should start working out all kinds of mechanisms, not because the resources are not there, but because we want to respond to the concerns of the courts and courts and the public prosecutor to ensure that the work is progressing smoothly? Personally, I believe that one should choose one or the other. If one goes to a full alternative, one does not start with exception mechanisms. With the potpourri II Act, we have landed with........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ After all, no one was concerned that the citizens were no longer actively deciding in the courtroom. The College of Attorney General is having an intellectual difficulty splitting up even further, with a jury in a passionate murder, but not when seven people are killed by terrorists. In both cases there have been deaths, only the motive differs. Depending on the motive of the perpetrator, one goes to an exception court. I don't like that word alone. I'm just saying what I think. That's something for a different kind of regimes than ours. In a passionate murder one will then use a different formula. I don't know if it's very understandable for the public when the jury isn't going to be performing on terra cases anymore, but in others. I know that Mr Van Leeuw must save his case in a manner of speaking, but it is clear to the College of Attorneys-General that there should be no exceptions. We are aware that by saying that, you may not get to that two-thirds majority or perhaps you will fail, but we really want to get to it. There are insufficient budgetary resources. The experts have an alternative. The full Code of Criminal Procedure new style, 2.0 or whatever one wants to call it, may not be approved, but the piece on the criminal chamber can come out. The normality of the debates can be saved. What cannot be saved is the preservation of the jury. That is the big difference from the Minister's proposal at the time. There was still a jury in it, but there were also numerous side effects in terms of complexity and so on. In other words, we think it is realistic. There is, of course, the problem of budgetary resources, as Mr Van Leeuw said, namely EUR 2 billion. If EUR 2 billion is added, all the problems have been solved, but let us be realistic, there is no EUR 2 billion, there is no EUR 750 million, there is probably no EUR 500 million. And even so, the 500 million euros will be there for the whole justice story. So please do not let us dance on a weak cord, with exceptions. Please let us go for the alternative. It's a painful solution, a painful change, I admit. For some of you, it's difficult. For me, part of it is also a political problem, which I do not want to shove away from me. That is why I would like to make it very clear that today we recommend that we do not do so. It is one or the other, but for us there is only one clear choice: go to an alternative. I can assure you that the matter will be dealt with as thoroughly as possible. Eventually, the lawyers are always there. So the smallest misstep of the judge, who would act undemocratically, is sanctioned. In other words, please let us talk about this. That is why I wanted to reply very briefly. With all due respect for the discussions that have taken place and the arguments that have been put on the table, there is a fundamental difference between three days and two weeks. Or almost a year, if I understand correctly, because if we have to go back to that process, we will end up with more than 52 weeks. With all our understanding, those who believe that working with a jury is a good thing, but one must dare to ask oneself whether this is still feasible in our society. We don't see anything progressing. Our ICT is out of date. I recently asked De Standaard not to re-publish an article in which our ICT is presented as a total chaos, because in the end we will no longer find magistrates. Maybe that's one of the reasons. In that same article I read that the windows are no longer washed. I thought, please, leave that out. However, it is a reality and I would like to put it on the table. We do not have the means we would like to develop a 100 percent democratic society in which everyone's wishes are met. Our wish as magistrates is to hold thorough debates on all the dossiers. We would prefer to deal with our dossiers much more thoroughly in plenary session, but we need more magistrates to do so. Let us not forget that there are no such opportunities. Unless we can be shown otherwise tomorrow, the College of Attorneys-General will remain in its opinion that we should go to an alternative. I hear people say that this too will take some time, but it is a completely different way of working if one is working with a dual design. I know only one case, the castle murder in Bruges, which one can say didn't go well. Okay, but that's an exception file. I would have liked to have seen how the discussion for assistants had been conducted on whether there were informants and whether everything was legal. Indeed, this could not be treated in 14 days, which was too difficult. This is one of the few things that can be said to have not worked out as it should. But even if it had been an assistive procedure, it would not have gone well. Of all the other cases, however, I found that, so to speak, there had already been an appeal before I knew it. I spend half my time in Brussels, and sometimes I think back to a case. I read in the newspaper, for example, that a case from Dendermonde was now dealt with in appeal at two days' time, that there were five suspects and that everything went well even though security was minimal at that time. However, this security was not a problem because there was a completely different structure. Again, it's not about security either. I really do care about the efficiency of the overall picture. In general terms, if we want to achieve better, faster, more efficient legal redress, with full respect for all possible rights of the parties involved, it is appropriate to move to a different formula. My position is not to create an exception for the terrorism process, because that only complicates it. I'm really afraid this is hard to sell. I shall now let my colleague answer most of the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic124x.u21	Let's be clear! We are currently preparing a trial of assizes. This is the current status of the procedure. Magistrates have been working for four years. I do not know if I can interpret one of the interventions according to which, suddenly, one realizes that there is a trial of seats and all of a sudden, one reacts! I have already made the request for the abolition of the assize court in 2016 and 2017. The College of the Public Prosecutor's Office formulated this last May in its bid boek. A letter was sent to Mr. Geens on 1 October, written by the entire College of Public Prosecutions (prosecutors and auditors) requesting the abolition of the court of assizes. This request is not new. But it is a pity that events such as these are needed, with such terrible cases and trials, for me to be invited to Parliament and for us to discuss them. I think there is a question of listening to the questions asked. Where I register falsely is that it is not now that I ask for the abolition of the court of seats. I've been asking from the beginning. Maybe I'm a little direct, but you know that. That is how we need to know such an event so that at some point the philosophical lines move. I know very well that this is neither obvious nor easy and that it requires some compromises and others. Whatever your decision, I will faithfully respect her as a magistrate. It is obvious that we will try to apply the procedures, however difficult they may be. Changing procedures becomes a mode, which makes them lose their logic. The Constitutional Court then intervenes and we must reverse! This sometimes makes things very, very, very complicated. I can understand the reasons of the Constitutional Court for Mr Geens' reform. We knew it and Mr. Geens also because at some point... but at that time, honestly, there were extremely few assize courts. I didn't hear the public ask for more. There have been few cases for some reasons: in the Nemmouche case (as I explained to you), some referrals have been requested. It is difficult to justify, for example (I am no longer referring only to the Nemmouche case) for the most serious crimes under international humanitarian law, I have a magistrate who initially finds extenuating circumstances for a person guilty of genocide, etc. It seems to me that in these matters, the substance must be judged. That's why with regard to my trials (and sometimes that's why I have a little bit of difficulty with some political decisions that want to keep the Court of Assizes for the most serious crimes), it didn't work out for me. I do not like it, because it is precisely for the most serious crimes that the Court of Assize is very complicated and unfair, as I have tried to explain to you. It's important to make that clear. Many questions have been asked, which I understand, about the possibility of applying a possible revision or abolition. I would like to make two points. Firstly, as regards the timing of the process, we estimate that the process could start in September 2021. We must first take into account the French process at first instance, which is likely to run from January 2021 to June 2021. Then we could start between the French trial at first instance and a possible appeal procedure. We could then reserve the entire judicial year 2021. I speak, of course, with all necessary reservations. We do not have all the elements of the procedure in our hands. We have now seen that additional research actions were requested at the first stage of the reference to assists. There has not yet been a council chamber, as additional elements have been requested. As a result, we have not yet been able to place a precise period of time on the procedure, which, for example, was very difficult to rent NATO's buildings. They were hired for a certain period. The services of the FPS Justice Department would very much like me to stick and record a perfect period of time that the procedure will be done on that date. That's not the case, just because of the procedure. I strongly believe that it is still possible. However, it will depend on many things. Firstly, a law on criminal proceedings is immediately applicable. That's just a general rule. It is true that for other changes as a threshold the reference to assists has been made by the Chamber of Inclamation. That is an existing case law. However, that is a case law and not a law. If, therefore, you lay down in the law, even if reference has already been made to an Assenhof which no longer exists, that all references to the Assenhof should actually be referred to the criminal chambers, then I do not think that can cause any problems. Will there be any problems for the Constitutional Court? No, you are changing the Constitution. The Constitutional Court cannot review the Constitution. It can be checked against the Constitution, but it cannot test the Constitution itself. Nor do I see any inequality in replacing the Assenhof, with penalties that can go to life, but without a means of appeal, by a court that could pronounce the same penalties, but with a means of appeal. I am still waiting for arguments that say that it is a fundamental right to be judged only at first instance by a jury without the possibility to appeal. I am not sitting at the seat of the judges who will have to rule on that. These questions will be asked, as with any revision. It is now fashionable to use a lot of procedure, questions for a preliminary ruling and so on. We will not be able to avoid that in certain cases, but I think it is still perfectly possible. I do not look disdainfully at the work to be done. The Court of Assistes has influenced our system in such a way that a number of articles of law will have to be amended in the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Judicial Code. That's gonna be a big job. However, a lot of work has been done by experts in recent years. There is a proposal to set up a criminal chamber which could be used with a special procedure, with an opportunity to appeal, for all penalties over 20 years. It is our proposal to take that proposal as the basis for the discussions. I don't know how much time that'll take. That will require a great deal of effort, but I am asking, because I think it is possible. People often talk about citizens' confidence in justice and politics. I have heard many times that this is not possible because there is no government. My answer to that is that there is still a Parliament. Parliament can assume its responsibilities in this. There was a question from Open Vld whether there is enough time for a constitutional change. That depends on how fast one goes and how many debates are needed. We still have a year and a half. What I still have in my hands is that I can wait a few weeks or months for any reference to the court of assists. According to our timing, if all goes well, the reference should normally be made in October or November. There are, of course, people in that file who are detained. We can't allow custody to continue for centuries, but when it comes to a few weeks or a month or two, maybe we can. I've had a lot of questions about the victims, including Open Vld. A great deal of attention is paid to the victims. That is something in which we have made enormous progress through what we have been through. We do not want to repeat what has happened to the Gang of Nivelles, where one of the greatest pains was that the victims were not properly supervised or heard from the Justice Department. There is now another generation of magistrates. We've made progress, too. It is also my concern that citizens should be given greater confidence in justice. I am the first to have this concern, but this can also be improved by better guidance for the victims. We've been doing that since March 22nd. In fact, we started with the Sierre accident. We have also gained a lot of experience from the Dutch approach to the MH17 aircraft disaster, for example. There have been many internal discussions at the Justice Department. We also had to win a lot of fights, because there was a great deal of resistance to them, but that is also a way of getting closer to the people, especially the suffering people we face every day in our profession. What does a nine-month trial mean for a victim? Who can afford a lawyer for nine months? That's also very incriminating for a victim. Who can attend all NATO sessions for nine months? That too will be extremely incriminating for the victims. I would like to draw attention to the fact that my questions are supported by the victims. Anyone who has seen the debate in the Seventh Day knows that Mr Vansteenkiste, chairman of one of the most important victims' associations, also asked for the abolition of the court of assistants because of what he had experienced in the Nemmouche case. That case has hit a huge number of victims very hard. Just because we have a jury, we have to explain to a juror what an autopsy is. That's not done in a normal process. Is that necessary? Sometimes that's necessary. We know the cause of death here, but we still have to explain it to the jurors. It's very difficult for a victim to experience something like this. That happened for four people in the Nemmouche case. Here that's going to happen for 32 people and maybe even more because there were 400 injured. They asked about the possible appeal and the fact that it would take the same length of time. However, this will not take the same time. It starts with the aspect that we have to explain everything from a to z to the jury. I don't look disrespectfully at the people in the street, it's normal that they don't know. If I am asked to be present in a major operation tomorrow, then I will have to be told what needs to be done. Maybe I'll pass out, something we'll see with jurors from time to time. In any case, the surgeon will have to explain everything he does to me because I haven't studied this matter. That's gonna take a lot of time. I'm not saying this is bad, sometimes I'd like to go look. However, we can save the time this takes if we abolish the jury. If we abolish the jury for the trial on the attacks of 22 March, I am sure that we will be able to organise the two in one judicial year. This applies to the existing draft, which provides for a number of testimonies to be filmed at first instance and attached to the file. At the level of the appeal, unless there are special reasons, they should not happen again. So there are no hundreds of witnesses to be called again. We are going to buy a great deal of time without touching on the oral nature of the debates. That oral nature of the debates is very important because it gives an idea of what Justice has done, what has gone well and what has not been done and how people feel about it. This responds to the need for the debate to be made public. I don't think that's gonna take a jury. They also talked about media attention. That attention will certainly be there, and that is also healthy. I don't think my colleague said media attention is unhealthy, but the impact of a lawyer conducting debates in public, for the media, or on a professional judge is completely different from its impact on a juror. A juror will sometimes not control certain concepts, and that's normal. I have to say, however, that sometimes a great deal is told by lawyers in the media or by a court of assistants which they would not dare to tell for professional judges. I also have to make that observation, but I am not going to go into that further, otherwise I fear that I will have problems that I do not want to have at the moment. With regard to the question of the means for the trial on 22 March, as I said, I do not want to make it a debate on the means of justice, but we are here. Two days ago, the daily De Standaard published an appeal at the level of the public prosecutor's offices because they no longer manage to recruit. The managers are 90 per cent filled in. I'm not taking a stand. Savings had to be made and I understand that the next government will have to make a minimum of 12 billion savings. So when people tell me they're gonna give me two billion, honestly, I don't believe it. There will be further savings to be made. What we are telling you is, if you want to save money, do it on this procedure rather than further reducing the number of magistrates and putting the courts in more difficulty. These resources are important. I understand that the 22 March procedure is exceptional, but the Rwanda trial proceedings that have just taken place have monopolized one magistrate in thirty-two for six months. As for the Nemmouche case, it was two judges who took care of it for a year, just to prepare all the difficulties of the procedure. Can we still afford it? Besides, if you give me those two billions next week, it'll take me five years to get to the level we were ten years ago. Unfortunately, magistrates do not run the streets. I can also proceed by drawing lots, but it seems to me to be a very big problem. All right, we need more resources. I am asking for it and I am happy to hear that we are aware of it, but I also know very well that other aspects or parts of society also need resources. There will therefore be arbitrations to be made. What you are told today is that, if you have to make an arbitration and gain the means of justice, do so on this procedure, which represents 0.007% of the more than one million correctional judgments a year in Belgium. Will you get more support for 0.007% of the population? I'm not sure. Also, is it worth taking risks? Indeed, what my colleague has said and the reference to what happened in Antwerp is, for me, quite sensible. For the 22nd March trial, we're going to have to split the court. A court of assize normally requires two first-instance correctional judges and a presiding judge. If the court is to be split, it means that it will take four first-instance correctional judges to be removed from the correctional chambers and two assize court presidents. As I told you, we're going to look for the presidents of the pension court because we don't have two. I repeat that only four magistrates know how to preside over assize courses in Brussels and we are going to look for them. This means that, for more than a year, these magistrates will not be able to preside over correctional chambers, appeal courts, etc. So, in terms of impact on the citizen, it's going to be huge. I am not talking about my prosecution, where three prosecution officers have been working for months and are still going to work for more than a year on this trial. It is three magistrates, two more who deal with the victims and another who is responsible for the organisation of this mega-trial. That makes 6 out of 32 magistrates. This makes one fifth of the staff of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, which in principle must combat serious organized crime and terrorism, deal with international humanitarian law and international cooperation. I think the federal prosecutor's office isn't doing too bad a job right now, but I have a fifth of my magistrates dedicated to a court of assizes. We do, because we have to. It's our responsibility. But, honestly, I wanted to draw attention to the debauchery of means that this requires. This is obviously a trial that we take seriously. It affected all of us. I'm a citizen myself, not a caste apart. That has deeply affected all of us. I can assure you that this trial will be as best we can, because everyone will make an effort to ensure that this trial goes well. That said, for me, the jury does not specifically guarantee that this is going to happen. On the contrary. I'll give you an example. With the number of casualties, it's a puzzle for us. We're wondering how we're going to distinguish in courtrooms – because we don't have one that's big enough – who's a victim and who's not. If the president ever gives the floor to someone who is not a victim, it is a basis for cassation. But how do you do it when you have 900? We're going to put a label on them, with the risk that this may present? We are now asking ourselves such questions, to avoid cassations. So I wanted to draw your attention to this. I fully agree with the citizen's participation in justice and his ownership of it. I think it also involves questioning the judges themselves. I totally agree. Moving towards more open justice, less closed to itself, has been happening lately. I myself try, from time to time, to explain to the press – even if I sometimes get a summons to Parliament – certain things, but I think that goes through this, through the awareness of the magistrates. As I recalled in my presentation, the reasoning invoking citizen participation may seem very sympathetic, although an investigation by the Supreme Council of Justice – dating back to 2011 – shows that 70% of citizens are for the abolition of the court of assizes. We should ask ourselves if the citizen really wants that. He really wants that until he's called to participate in a jury of assize courts. He then finds every possible means not to have to participate in this jury of assize courts. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are forcing citizens to participate. It's not a participation. It's not a vote. They are not people who are elected for a year to sit on a jury. The French, for example, have a jury that is worth a month, and that passes five, six, seven cases (I don't talk about terrorism cases). It's a sitting session. Five, six, seven cases pass before the same jury. People are summoned for a month, it goes much faster. We tried more or less the same thing in Belgium. With the trial on the genocide of the Tutsis that has just taken place, we wanted to pass several genocidals at the same trial. It is thought that it is the same genocide, so all the context witnesses, etc., we will only have to bring them in once and there will be a jury that will have to judge that. It passed before the Chamber of Counsel, in front of the Indictments Chamber. But at the beginning of the sitting session the president decided to cut the trial into three. As a result, we will have three assize court trials. I do not criticize her because she had her reasons; she made a motivating judgment. But I want to tell you that it is not so obvious that it affects the procedure. We have already tried a lot to touch the procedure, to improve, etc. There you go! The questions to the jurors. How could we do anything other than ask the jurors questions? That's not possible. You have people who don't know anything, who don't know what a criminal qualification is. We are obliged to ask them a question: "is that," and they answer "yes" or "no". It's in their respect, absolutely. We cannot save on these questions as long as we have "laity", people who do not know the legal reasoning. I say it with great respect. I don't want it to be taken for disrespect. But once again, if I was in an operating room, I would like to be asked questions before I can use the scalpel, because otherwise, the patient may be in a very bad condition. At the question level, I don't think there's a way to save the questions if we keep the jury, and even with a much smaller jury. It was the plan of Mr. Geens' criminal chambers, which had also planned, and I quoted it in my presentation, that the juror could take notice of the case in advance. But there, it also monopolized magistrates for months to explain how to do it. And what my colleague has also said: honestly, we need five years of study and years of experience, and sometimes there are also judges themselves who do not necessarily master certain subjects, etc. The fast course we're going to give the jurors isn't going to help much. I think it's going to give you a little more confidence, and that's progress. But this will not be very helpful in explaining to them what a cross-border observation is, at some point, and what are the exceptions provided for by the Court of Cassation and the European Court of Human Rights; what is a controlled delivery of people, etc. All of this, honestly, is extremely technical, very complicated, and needs to be explained every time. It takes a lot of time. So the jury is not aware of the file. The only documents available to the jury are the indictment, at the beginning of the trial, and any defences. The indictment is drawn up by the Public Prosecutor's Office. Defence acts are drafted by the defence. These are the only elements that the jury has, sometimes for files of hundreds of thousands of pages. He only has access to the file at the time of the deliberations. That's where we're going to save a lot of time. I answer the question that has been put to me here. Honestly, I'm asking for the orality of the debates. Bringing witnesses, for example at the last Rwanda trial, was very helpful. Some of the evidence in the case file was much clearer when it was made by the persons who were in court. But it was not the question of the jury that brought this. It's the testimony, the speech. This is the fact that everyone was able to see, in a public hearing, important publicity measures, how justice was working, and what were the ins and outs of the case, etc. I'm going a little further. The other question that can be asked about this kind of trial is that when you are tried by a popular jury, you are supposedly judged by your peers. What is the meaning of having Rwandan genocidaires tried in an African context thirty years ago by the baker of Schaerbeek or my son's teacher? Honestly, that doesn't make much sense and lacks some logic. If I am asked what exactly needs to be changed, I will reply that terrorism and international humanitarian law are cases that take a lot of time, that are very technical, that are traumatic for jurors. All Rwanda trials took weeks. A trial of four to five days is tenable for a juror, even financially. As soon as the trial takes several weeks, it's much more complicated. Let me turn to the question on the mixed intermediate formula. I think I answered that. The College gave a very clear opinion on the draft made at the time, also known as the Criminal Chamber, in which a mini-jury was planned. There were far more disadvantages than solutions to the question. With regard to the potentially attackable emergency legislation, I think the French have solved the problem by keeping a jury, but by professionalizing it. They ended up with a special assize court on terrorism. It was already in the late 1980s and early 1990s, as a result of threats in proceedings against the GIA. Some jurors had been threatened. They kept one juror and replaced the others with five magistrates at first instance and seven on appeal. It is also the justification for the non-appeal of a jury. If the jury is sovereign, what is the meaning of saying that a jury on appeal has more truth than a jury at first instance? There is a philosophical problem that has arisen. In France, they solved the problem by providing for an appeal to their court of assizes by providing for more jurors on appeal than in the court of assizes. I'm telling you right away that I'm not an applicant, but that's how they solved this philosophical problem of jury sovereignty, putting a little more jurors on. The French system operates with five judges. I draw your attention to the number of judges it will monopolize. If you're planning this, you'll have to provide us with resources. There is an appeal with more judges at the Court of Appeal who will still be monopolized. That's what the French did. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the French FTFs pass before the court of assizes terro, with a few exceptions, except when there is no significant involvement in terrorism. I was asked a question about the evidence. In France, when there is evidence, they pass before a correctional court but most pass before the court of assizes terro and the sentences range from 15 to 20 years. At home, it's a maximum of five. Why? Because of the assize court again. I want to draw your attention to the impact. This remains for the judge to decide according to gravity, depending on the objective elements of the file and not the emotions. What is the just punishment for someone being prosecuted? It's important. Mr. Pivin, you're talking about a happy moment. My problem is that sometimes I have to take advantage of a momentum to get things that we've been asking for for years! The cost of this trial will be enormous. In France, they have a system of assize sessions. You said it's a nice exercise in citizen participation. Yes, I think so, but you are forcing the citizens to participate. Unless you're holding elections for assize juries... it would really be citizen participation and it would also reflect society. What are the priorities and types of crimes? For example, the Habran trial is unmanageable in a court of assizes. Either one puts a part in front of the court of assizes (murder, for example) but in this case the jury and the general public do not have the whole picture of the criminal organization, or there is a special procedure for organized crime. But for the latter, what are you going to refer to? Article 90ter? That's the boat question I'm asked here every time. I'm surprised that I haven't been asked yet. How is organised crime defined? This is one more argument in favour of the total abolition of the assize court. A federal trial was held in the court of assizes in 2014 for the trial of the assassin of the imam of the Shiite mosque in Brussels charged with arson, etc. We had opted for the prevention of terrorism. The accused justified his actions by saying that he wanted the Shiites who persecute Sunnis to change their way of doing things. It was therefore a question of terrorism. But the jury felt it was not. As a result, a court of assize was set up to try acts of terrorism, and finally the jury decided that this was not the case, even though it did catch up with the sentence. That's the kind of problem you have to deal with when you start spraying things. The other voices, in the judicial world, are shared. But – without wanting to hire the College of the Seat, I reviewed the various hearings that took place here in 2019 – I was able to see that many magistrates in the seat were also asking for the abolition of the Court of Assizes. Of course there are always die-hards. It is true that this is a beautiful procedure that highlights all the work of justice, but also some figures that are normally in the shadows. However, I think I can honestly say that at the headquarters level, many people are also asking for the removal of the court of seats, but you have to ask them the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic124x.u22	I have just checked the feasibility, but of course I do not have the draft of the new Code of Criminal Procedure of the expert committee. If I understand correctly, the act of incriminating is retained and provision is made for a chamber with three judges at first instance and on appeal. The possibility of appeal is, of course, provided for. We are also working with an introductory session on which the proceedings of the debates and the list of witnesses, which is also important, are recorded, such as for the Court of Assists, and where the regularity of justice is also discussed and assessed. I think that the Minister is better placed to reply to this question, and I think that the number of amendments to that section of the Code of Criminal Procedure is relatively limited, because one can base oneself on the fact that it is only for the time being, the summons and many other cases that the existing general rules on criminal justice are applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic124x.u23	I was asked another question about an investigative judge in organized crime. That exists in Terro. For example, in the case of the attacks, three investigators work together. There is no such thing as organised crime. That's outside the court of assists, but that's a law amendment you might be thinking of. I think I have answered your question about the length of the debates: without a jury, the debates will be shorter of course, which does not prevent the orality of the debates or the hearing of witnesses. It will be shorter because it is not necessary to explain all the legal concepts. A whole series of things will remain in the file and will be available for the defence, for the professional judges and we won't have to talk about it in front of the general public. I'm talking about autopsy, but I'm talking about a whole series of expertise and so on. All this is a considerable gain of time. That's the difference between the presence or not of a jury. As for the absence of an appeal, it has indeed passed, but quite rightly, before the European Court of Human Rights. Why did this happen just in relation to Article 6? This is because a cassation has been provided for and the European Court of Human Rights interprets cassation as a second remedy. But, honestly, you know that the Court of Cassation is technical. For me, this is not a complete remedy and, personally, I find it fundamentally unfair. But that is how the European Court has validated the fact that our People's Jury procedure does not have an appeal. However, I think it is up to you too to weigh this right side in this procedure and try to find a solution to this. It's important. Whatever your decision, I thank you for hearing us. If we are here, it is obviously to have a better justice, closer to the citizen and more effective. I didn't come to ask you to remove the seat yard so I could afford a longer vacation in winter sports. I can't believe it. You see it in the color of my nose. But it is precisely because we have this concern for a procedure that is more effective, closer to the citizen, closer to the victims, etc. I am convinced that, in relation to your legitimate concern, namely the involvement of the citizen, there are other solutions. These can be developed by the magistrates, together with the Higher Council and the magistrates themselves. We're working on it. We have developed a whole new approach to victims that is really important and that brings citizens closer together. But the jury question is, for me, a false debate about citizen participation in justice. I searched the internet for this juror who spoke on Facebook. You have to experience it. A lot of articles came out on jurors who were challenged, who didn't feel well, who passed out during an autopsy, etc. If that is how we want to bring justice closer to the citizen, I think there are other ways of doing so. Again, I respect very much the people who have sat on juries. I have a lot of admiration for them, because it's a very complicated trial. But I believe that, at a time when more modern justice is being considered, I do not see how justice more entrusted to professional judges, but more open to testimony and oral debate, would be less democratic than another with jurors. I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic124x.u24	Gentlemen, I would also like to thank you for having fed our reflection this morning. As for my colleagues, if no one wishes to speak, I would like to meet those of them who sit on this Committee on the Constitution to continue our work this afternoon.
