ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u2	The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] [[:]] Colleagues, It was with horror that we learned of the odious assassination, on Friday, October 16, 2020, of Samuel Paty, professor of history in a college of Conflans-Sainte-Honorine in France. We bow with emotion to this unfortunate victim and take part in the pain of his family, relatives and co-workers. Beyond the mediatization of this tragedy, there is collective indignation that overwhelms us, pain and incomprehension. This tragedy brutally confronts us with the need to remain extremely vigilant when it comes to preserving the values which form the basis of a modern democracy. We must vigorously defend freedom of expression. Let us face reality: the fundamental freedoms in which we believe with conviction are threatened. Teachers like Samuel Paty open a window on the world and broaden our horizons. In any dictatorship, by the way, they do everything in their power to silence them. In the face of this blind violence, which involves logics that go beyond us, it is up to the women and men of good will to give decisive priority to dialogue, understanding and cooperation in order to chart the paths of a world that is more fraternal, more solidarity and more human. Without that, what we are doing here in this place par excellence of democracy would not make sense. I have addressed to my counterpart, the President of the French National Assembly, the condolences of our assembly and have also requested him to convey to the representatives of the French people our expressions of support and empathy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u3	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 October 2020, you have received a proposal to amend the agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 October 2020, you received a proposal to amend the agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u4	Madam President, I have noticed that three topical questions have been tabled on the same subject, namely the terrorist act in France for which you have just expressed your deep regret. I wonder why these questions are not grouped together and answered by one minister. I note that one question was asked to the Prime Minister, but it will be answered by Minister Van Quickenborne. I note that two questions were put to Minister Verlinden and that they remain with Minister Verlinden. It seems logical to me, according to the usual way of working in committees, that questions on the same subject should also be answered with a joint answer by one minister. So I would like those three questions answered together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u5	Madam President, I would like to add that Mr Metsu's question was addressed to the Prime Minister because it is a serious matter which transcends trade ministers. I do not think it is a mistake to let the Prime Minister answer this question. Otherwise, we'll end up in difficult situations. The list shows that two ministers are called upon to answer the same question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u6	Are there any other comments? I would just like to remind you that each member of Parliament is putting his or her questions to the minister whom he or she wishes to question. Nevertheless, the last word is for the government to distribute the answer and reply according to departmental jurisdiction and, if necessary, delegate them. This is, moreover, the case for some of today's questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u7	Madam President, it is indeed up to the government itself to decide who answers, but it is still customary, when several ministers get questions on the same subject, to bring them together in one debate and, if necessary, to allow both ministers to reply, but at least to deal with all these questions at the same time. That is always the case in Question Time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u8	To the extent possible, the services attempt to gather questions on the same subject matter, unless the member absolutely requests a response from a particular minister, and the minister agrees, of course, to respond. To the extent possible, the services review the issues in order to be able to reach them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u9	Madam President, I was told that Mr Metsu's question would not only be addressed to Minister Van Quickenborne, but also to Minister Verlinden. I got a text about that. In this respect, I do not know whether the government knows how it intends to deal with this, but fortunately the Prime Minister is among us and he can, of course, enlighten us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u10	With regard to Mr Metsu's question about terrorism in France, the answer will be provided by both the Minister of the Interior and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice. There are therefore two ministers who will be able to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u11	Madam President, I do not see what the problem is with the combined response of the Ministers for the Interior and Justice. This is not so unusual, for a subject that is specifically covered by both domains. I believe that both ministers absolutely have the combined power to answer such a question. In previous weeks, for example, questions about COVID-19 were also answered in combination by Minister Vandenbroucke and myself. I have the impression that there is a problem here that there is not in reality. It is actually the logic itself that the Ministers of the Interior and Justice together answer this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before I ask my question, I would like to offer our encouragement to our former Prime Minister, Sophie Wilmès, and to all the patients who are affected by the disease. [[I think that colleagues will also be with them wholeheartedly.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u13	Of course!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u14	Prime Minister, all the signals are bright red. VOCID-19 always gallops a little faster and projections of the coming days are not good. To take strong measures is to take hard measures but for much longer, with far greater health and economic consequences. So now it is up to you to make strong decisions, also hoping for more coherence, more clarity, not like last week when, barely the decisions taken, ministers called for their disagreement. How do you want to convince the citizens and that they adhere after such a communication? You have made the decision not to test people who are in contact with a positive carrier and who are asymptomatic, because the device is saturated. What a failure! But what a risk too! To stop testing asymptomatics is to risk that the situation escapes us even more, with unidentified chains of contamination, with even less respected quarantines. However, there is an alternative, using salivary self-sampling as well as rapid antigenic tests for asymptomatics. Belgium is still thinking about it, while other countries sometimes command it massively. It is urgent to order and have a much more effective device on the "test, trace, isolate". Finally, I would like to ask you to provide urgent and massive support to caregivers. They need arm reinforcements. Let us innovate, let us mobilize all the caregivers who agree and who are not active in the health sector! Let's free them from their professional activity with a crisis status! Let's engage the students! Let's engage the nurses and teachers who agree! Let us also free them from their activity! Let's engage Defence caregivers who aren't on the ground yet! Let us also provide logistical support! Prime Minister, I would like to give you the requests defined by the General Union of Nurses of Belgium. Concretize them immediately! Caregivers are under maximum pressure. We cannot succeed in having to choose who to treat. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u15	Madam President, Prime Minister, like many of our fellow citizens, I have had enough! I'm tired of seeing our country pointed out by all the newspapers around the world. I'm tired of seeing the same still stigmatized: the young, the horeca. I am tired of repeating the need to prepare for a second wave because it is a situation that the health care staff does not deserve. Finally, I am tired of getting a systematic response that everything is under control. Indeed, today it is clear that this is not the case. We are still in the reign of improvisation. Again last Wednesday, I was asking the Minister of Health about the situation in the screening centres, but also in the laboratories that are completely overcrowded. The minister's response was reassuring. He said that the task force set up was thinking about how to further strengthen our capacity for sampling and analysis. And what did we learn on Monday? Not that this capacity was going to be strengthened, but that, on the contrary, would be excluded purely and simply asymptomatic tests, i.e. 50% of PCR tests. It is up to these people to quarantine themselves, without asking themselves whether they will be able, from a professional and economic point of view, to respect this quarantine, without saying that, under these conditions, we will no longer be able to cut the transmission lines properly, and without saying that we are heading straight towards a new confinement. Today, Wallonia mobilizes new mobile teams and implements the use of quick salivary tests. And, in the meantime, what does the federal government do? He is waiting; he is waiting for the validation of quick salivary tests which have been used for many weeks by other countries. Prime Minister, what is our response to this second wave today? Are you going to call the army for backup in our hospitals? When will the new testing platform finally be operational? Can you commit yourself to ensuring that we do not have to close the schools that need to be preserved in order to avoid sacrificing an entire generation because of mismanagement of the crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u16	Madam President, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats would like to express its sincere support for Mrs Wilmès and for all the patients who are currently fighting against this terrible virus. It shows once again that this virus can affect anyone and also how unpredictablely hard it can strike. Prime Minister, you announced stricter measures last week. That was necessary, too. Will these measures be sufficient to bring that curve down again and save hospitals from the abyss? It's not clear yet. It is also logical that it is not yet clear. The measures have not been implemented long enough. That uncertainty, however, makes people angry. Anger makes them point the finger and let us divide into groups. That's not helping. You rightly said that the fight against this virus is a team sport, with eleven million at a time, tous ensemble, against one common enemy called the coronavirus. However, this anger also means that we need more than ever to hold on, to be clear, to be predictable. That's why we expect so much from the barometer that will come tomorrow. It must be predictable. If there are so many hospitalizations a day, we will automatically go to stricter measures and a different level, and vice versa. The first version showed us that we're in level four out of five. There is another unnamed fifth level called the inevitable new lockdown by several experts. How inevitable is this new lockdown? The barometer will make clear what we expect from the population. Will it include what the population can expect from us? The Minister of Health has said very nicely 'we will not let you go'. What can someone who feels lonely expect from us when we all crawl into our cave again?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u17	Madam President, Prime Minister, when there were no mouth masks, the fake news was deliberately communicated that mouth masks are not useful. Now that one cannot follow the tests, the fake news is deliberately communicated that testing people without symptoms is not useful. However, this summer it had finally become clear that the test capacity had to be drastically increased. Then Minister De Backer announced that by the end of September, early October, we would have 90,000 PCR tests a day. We never made it to that number. Moreover, the lead time of the test results is longer and longer day after day, especially in Wallonia. Last week, your Minister for Health also said that the test capacity needed to be increased. A few days later, however, the opposite was decided, because people without symptoms are no longer tested, even if there is high risk contact, even if they come back from a red zone abroad. Prime Minister, how can this be reconciled with efficient contact tracing and efficient detection? The contact tracing was already limp, but I'm really wondering what your testing strategy is in the meantime. When are the quick tests due? They were ordered in this country much later than our neighbouring countries. That is the essence of the problem: this government is reacting too late. There were no tailor-made measures, not enough, especially in Brussels. The question is whether it can still be supported by local measures. Your statement is that a lockdown is not allowed, but is there any way to avoid a lockdown? Meanwhile, all hospitals are flooded. With regard to hospital capacity, can you guarantee that our citizens will be able to be treated in their own hospitals, in their own country, in the coming days and weeks? Finally, what is your plan for the autumn holiday?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u18	Mr Prime Minister, did you read on Instagram the message of DJ Jef Eagl, with which he also went to Studio Brussels? He teaches us that no less than 31 of his acquaintances and friends working in his sector, the event sector, have committed suicide since the start of the corona crisis. Thirty-one, that is a hard figure, which shows how bad the situation is for a part of our population, for socio-economic and sanitary reasons and for human relations, which translates into loneliness. I think there are two solutions. Firstly, there is a need for solidarity. Solidarity among the population is a contribution to this by encouraging everyone to call each other; solidarity, it is expressed by asking each other how they are doing, whether they need something, whether they can help them or whether they have news. Solidarity will also help us through the crisis. The first signal to be given is one of solidarity. Secondly, there is a need for an answer to the questions as to how we got back into today's situation and why the same mistakes were made after the first wave. People don't understand that. What happened last summer, or rather didn't happen, which puts us back in the same situation again? No one in our country understands that. That is why urgent decisions must now be taken. How do you explain that yesterday's testing had to be done for everyone and not anymore? There should also be more funding for the event sector. Those people need help. Prime Minister, we must now take decisive action. People no longer allow us to make the same mistakes a third time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u19	Madam President, Prime Minister, we all know that you do not have an easy task today. It is not obvious to keep all citizens motivated to comply with the measures. It is not obvious to communicate one message to 11 million citizens and to let them all get on the same page. We understand that. The communication of the last week, in which it is stated that not everyone who has come into contact with a positive case but is non-symptomatic, raises questions. A lot of people have questions. They doubt whether they are positive or negative. They wonder whether they should therefore be in isolation for 10 days and not be able to work for 10 days. I myself belong to the younger generation and I wonder what the cost will be for the next generation. That's why I have a few questions for you. I would also like to emphasise the lab work. Today we find that a lot of labs do not meet the 48-hour deadline. The previous minister who followed the labs, Mr De Backer, made it clear that he would act if the 48-hour deadline were not met. To this day, however, this is not happening. We need the labs. If necessary, we must open more triage centres to ensure that they are strengthened. The government has always promised that we could do 90,000 tests a day today. However, the weekly average shows that today we are dealing with only 56,000 tests per week. Prime Minister, we are short. We really must ensure that the test capacity can be increased. When will the labs be contacted about their delays? Finally, Minister, how can we ensure that more tests can be carried out? Will we re-open triage centres in every city and ensure that they are close to the people so that they can at least carry out a test for the safety of every Belgian?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u20	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the figures are heading in the wrong direction and the number of hospital admissions is rising dramatically, causing a great deal of suffering. We have to stop this escalation. Strict and firm measures must therefore be taken, but they must also be followed. Measures not only have a price for the economy, but also require a human toll. The closure of the catering industry is a difficult, harsh and damaging measure, which is a serious blow to the sector which did everything in its power to organise its activities and invested heavily. Admiration of that. Also for the fashion sector, which is closely linked to the catering industry through fun shopping and for the many invisible, but very important suppliers of our social life, these measures are certainly a bitter pill. At macroeconomic level, Voka already announced that the average annual losses of the companies will be more than 10%. This may seem relatively good, given all the figures we have been facing lately, but it takes years of work before a company can make 10% profit. Behind all these figures there are also human dramas. There are very sad stories coming to us from people who really don't like it anymore. We must be very attentive to that. Entrepreneurs are also more than just business figures. The mental well-being of both entrepreneurs and workers in certain sectors which are once again affected is under considerable pressure. For many people, a lockdown is synonymous with a mental knockdown, often because of the combination of homework, child care and financial uncertainty. Let's all work together to avoid a general lockdown. Let us do everything we can to ensure that we do not end up in a scenario that would be even more harmful, with a stop-and-go economy: open today, closed tomorrow and who knows what the day after tomorrow. That would only mean a certainty: uncertainty. Prime Minister, I would therefore like to ask you how long the government can offer us some stability or perspective. Will the government ensure that healthy companies survive this crisis (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u21	Madam President, I would like to make a preliminary point. A lot of questions about testing are asked here. Mr Bacquelaine will ask a question about this later. Mr Depoorter has also tabled a question on this subject. I can assume that this question is still linked to it. Minister, a strong policy is being called for. You have given that impression in the last few weeks, but there are still some cracks in it, I'm afraid. We received a ministerial decision on the implementation of last week's measures. It was forwarded at 10:00. That means two hours for all municipalities, including mayors of small municipalities, to implement the decision, on a Sunday evening. That's not obvious. In addition, there were a lot of uncertainties or even contradictions. I am thinking, for example, of the fact that shops that are open until 21:00 are allowed to sell alcohol for up to 20 hours and then have to cover the rayon for maybe an hour. There was also complete uncertainty about the supply of alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks to the catering shops that tried to develop a little bit of activity. Much chaos and uncertainty is created, which is also corrected by letter, but a letter cannot, of course, correct a ministerial decision. Measures have also been taken, including those relating to the night clock, which, according to all experts in this area, do not pass the test of the Constitution. That means it's unclear whether people can still go out on the street after 12:00. The police don't know if she can maintain that. The citizen doesn't know what to do or what to do. The only person with certainty is the judge who, if he or she has to give a ruling on the matter, will draw a line through the measure. The same is the case with the new test policy. In the morning, the first-line people will learn through the newspapers that they suddenly have to conduct a completely different test policy. That has also led to a lot of chaos. Prime Minister, strength demands clear and sound legislation. What will you do about this ambiguity? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u22	Prime Minister, you have the floor for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u23	Madam President, you just asked me if the government wanted to respond to what happened in France. You have taken me a little by surprise, but it is absolutely appropriate for the government to respond to this. Let it be very clear, it's about some kind of blind hatred that takes people's personality. A teacher was dehumanized and called upon to act blindly against him. There is no reason why we should not do everything in our country to express our disapproval of this. I have expressed our condolences to the President of the French Republic and I have made it clear that on the Belgian side we will do everything possible to work together to eradicate this hatred. In no way can we accept such behaviour in our communities, in our countries. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to comment on this. [[Applause]] I will now answer the questions raised in connection with the decisions taken by the Consultative Committee. I understand a lot of the reactions from society. If a communication is made on Friday which makes it clear that part of the very lively economic activity in our country, I am talking about the catering industry two days later, at a time when people are in full activity, then I understand that there are very strong reactions to it. I myself and other ministers who were present have pointed out that some of us might regard the measures we have taken as unfair, that they might regard this as some kind of hint of the sector and that the catering industry is being identified as guilty. We have always been very clear in our communication that this is absolutely not the case. It is not because we are asking a particular sector to stop its activities that this sector would be the main culprit of the increase in the number of confirmed cases or that this sector would be at the origin of the increase in the number of people admitted to hospitals or the number of people in intensive care. Today, we are at such a high level that we should do everything we can to limit unnecessary contacts. As has been mentioned several times, there are four societal priorities for us. Besides, I haven't heard anyone question them. The first priority is to ensure that our health care can continue to function in the first line and the hospitals, that all patients can continue to be treated with COVID-19, but also, of course, that other care that has nothing to do with COVID-19 can continue to be provided, and that the pressure on nursing staff and doctors can be taken into account as best as possible. I don't think anyone's questioning that objective. The second objective is to ensure that in education, especially higher education, children can continue to go to school. I also note that the Ministers responsible share this objective. We still see young people today who bear the consequences of not being able to go to school during the lockdown. It is logic itself that this is a social priority. A third element is mental health. These are not easy times because people who had difficulties before the COVID crisis are now forced to live in isolation. They are also concerned about their job and their health. If it was difficult for them before, there is no doubt that it must be even more difficult today. The fourth priority is the functioning of our economy. Maximum use is made of telework and security measures for people for whom telework is not possible. However, we must ensure that our economy can continue to function. These are the social priorities, and I do not really hear any doubt about them. In addition, we must keep all unnecessary contacts as minimal as possible. Cafés and restaurants are by their nature, their essence, just places where there is a lot of contact. As a precautionary measure, we wanted to stop these non-necessary contacts for a certain period of time. I believe that this can be defended, and we are not the only country to take this measure. I refer to the choice made in the Netherlands, where Prime Minister Rutte established a closing hour for cafes and restaurants at the end of September. A few weeks later, he had to conclude that this was not enough, and a week before we did, he took the decision to close it. I said it on several occasions in the press, fighting this pandemic of VOCID-19 is a teamwork. This is a task that we are all going to accomplish together. Eleven million Belgians all together. And if we don't understand that this is teamwork, it will have an impact on our own health and certainly on the health of others and the most vulnerable. Protecting the most vulnerable must be done as a team. There are those who have to make decisions and there are those who call for teamwork from our people. Well, I hope that the politicians who make the decisions understand that the decisions that need to be made include teamwork and that when we make decisions, we stick to them and defend them together. In a moment like this, we are all called upon to overcome our differences, to make decisions and to defend them together. Last Friday's decision was taken in the Consultation Committee, where we listened to each other and considered the arguments. Then we communicated it together. Those who participated in the Consultation Committee also defended the decision together. I do not want to see that here as some kind of hint to those who were in that forum. They're not simple decisions. We made those decisions together and I would like to thank everyone who was there for defending those decisions, even if they were contrary to their initial ideas, in a loyal way. That is the minimum we are expected to achieve. It was also clear from the decision of the Consultative Committee that, for the sectors governed by protocols, namely sport and culture, a new Consultative Committee is planned in the short term, where the Ministers responsible would be asked to adapt the protocols for sport and culture, among other things, to the situation we are currently in. Last Friday, when we announced the measures, we underlined that all the provinces of our country were in alert phase 4, except for three provinces. In the meantime, two of the three who weren't in phase 4 are already in phase 4. Only the province of Limburg is not today. However, the prediction on 7 days makes it clear that the province of Limburg will also be in phase 4 in the coming days. Let us please stop saying that it is a problem on one side of the country, which does not apply to the other side of the country. Today it is clear that the virus is everywhere, we are in all provinces today except one, but soon there too, in alert phase 4. It seems clear to me that in view of the situation today, also in sport and culture, the measures will be adapted to bring them into line with what we decided on Friday. The decisions we took on Friday are strict measures and tough for the sectors concerned. It seems logical to me that the decisions we will take on the protocols in sport and culture and the other protocols follow on from the decisions we took on Friday. Those who doubt whether the decisions taken last Friday are justified, I would point out that today's figures show very well that they are indeed and that what we have to do with the protocols will actually have to be in line. We must do everything we can to limit unnecessary contacts. We're in an exponential phase today. In an exponential phase one must do everything to stop the unnecessary contacts. As far as testing is concerned, there are still questions about this - I can say the following. We've been testing over 60,000 people for a few weeks. We do over 60,000 tests a day. The peak was on October 14, 2020. On that day, we ran 72,000 tests. We have been among the highest in Europe for many months. Today we are still at the European Summit in terms of the number of tests carried out on people. We have also always said that we would increase the number of tests. The plan is to extend them to 90,000 to 100,000 tests. We are very much in the process of achieving that figure. We note, however, that there is enormous pressure on reagents and on materials on the world market of test providers and that there is also a heavy pressure in our country on the people who have to carry out the tests. We are making every effort to move towards 90,000 to 100,000 tests. I would like to make it clear that our test level is very high compared to other countries. Let's be clear! The decision that was taken was taken in the Interministerial Conference, for the time being chaired by Flemish Minister Wouter Beke, who in that forum analysed the strategy that had already been decided on 20 August, i.e. to adapt the testing strategy to the alarm phase in which we are located. It is clear that we have moved from the third alarm stage to the fourth alarm stage. It has been clear for weeks what this means in terms of the priority of testing. Let me be very clear. We're not testing any less. We're still testing the same amount. The number of tests even continues to increase. But we're testing another way. The priorities set at a time when there are so many positive cases have changed. We are now implementing what has been decided before, together with all the ministers responsible for health care in our country. There is a very clearly aligned testing strategy that changes when we reach another stage. When we are in phase 4, and the number of people who have been positive has risen so much, we need to test much more precisely. By the way, that strategy that our country applies is a strategy that is also applied in other countries. In other countries, too, it is said that we are going to test as a matter of priority for people who have symptoms because we are now at a different stage. We are doing everything we can to increase the number of tests, but I would like to stress that we are definitely at the top of the test range in relation to the rest of Europe. Last week, 72,000 tests were conducted at a peak time. With regard to the care professions, Mrs Fonck, I am convinced that every effort must be made to increase the attractiveness of the profession. We all know that caregivers are under enormous pressure and that working conditions are very difficult at the moment. As you know, the government has confirmed the White Blouse Fund to the tune of 400 million, which was decided in this Parliament. Of these 400 million, 301 million will directly impact the workload of staff. In addition, a new social agreement has been reached in the federal health care sector, where 600 million will be allocated on a recurring basis to improve working conditions, including a real thirteenth month, etc. We are making many efforts to make work more attractive, but the most important step we can take is to reduce the pressure on the sector by reducing our contacts to the maximum extent possible. A number of questions have been asked about testing. They asked what was awaited for antigen testing. Belgium has ordered four million federally of these tests. Next week, 500,000 of those tests will arrive. Those tests will be integrated into our testing strategy. Some of them talked about the labs. I have requested information on this: 90% of the labs today respect the 48 hour period. In the labs, everything is being put into practice in order to be able to meet the demands we make as well as possible. Madam President, I come to my conclusion. What we are seeing today is a situation where the virus is everywhere. We all know people who are in quarantine today. We all know people who are hospitalized today or even people who are on intensive care. The virus is very widespread. At a time like this, we need to make the right decisions. We made those decisions on Friday. Everyone is aware of the fact that when you make decisions in this domain, the outcome will not come the next day. It takes a few days for the results to be visible. In fact, it should be assumed that it will take at least 10 days for the results to be visible. It was announced that we will make a number of adjustments in a Consultation Committee on the basis of what we decided on Friday. We will. At the same time, we must above all show steadfastness and not constantly change strategy. There's clearly a way out. Decisions have been made. Decisions are being implemented. Decisions will be maintained. We've made decisions that are easy to enforce. Let us be confident that the measures we have taken are the right ones. The success of these measures depends in particular on whether those measures are being complied with or whether they are being enforced. All the indicators of surveys carried out show that public confidence is increasing because the measures are clear, because the measures are understood. Let's all work together to maintain that trust, to radiate peace, to adjust when it is necessary and to have confidence in everyone, that we have understood that it is a team sport, with the population, but also with those who have to make decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u24	Thank you, Prime Minister. I must point out that a message had been sent to your firm regarding the word at the beginning of our session. No doubt there was a break-up of contact. We will ensure in the future that it does not produce any more.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u25	Prime Minister, your decisions are not easy, you say. Let me tell you that the reality is even more difficult for patients, for caregivers, for the affected economic sectors, but also for all citizens! I feel like I'm repeating, week after week, the same thing all the time. Prime Minister, we are not doing enough and not fast enough! The virus is going much faster than you. We need a major accelerator. You're talking about the tests, but you don't have to test to test. What is needed between your paper numbers and reality are tests that are performed with a result within 24 hours. It's tracing to avoid contamination. It's isolating to protect. If health gets better and it gets faster, then the mental health of all citizens will get better and the economic impact will get faster. The reality today is that we have saturated health care and caregivers on our knees. You recalled the measures to be taken on attractiveness, the White Blouse Fund, etc. I have given you urgent requests in this envelope which can be implemented quickly and which will also allow you to have additional arms. We need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u26	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. Today we are in a race against the clock. A race so crazy that it could force us to confide again. If we have to, we will. We've already done it. But that would be the terrible confession of collective failure. Indeed, we have known for months that we must learn from the first wave, anticipate and take consistent measures, that is to say, the opposite of what has been done in recent months. I will mention the wearing of the mask, the tests, and the duration of the quarantine. On the subject of testing, Prime Minister, I hear you say, in the end, by self-congratulating you, that we are doing better than other European countries. But that's not the point. From the moment we announce a testing capacity of 90,000 tests a day, we must be able to do them, and isolate the patients in time. What I am asking you today, Prime Minister, is to recognize your mistakes, to mobilize all the tools at our disposal and to explain why they are being used. It is only in this way that we will regain the support of the population, that we can act as a team, as you rightly pointed out, and that we will fight this virus effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u27	Mr Prime Minister, we are testing not less, but differently. I therefore hope that the number of positive cases will not be the basis for changing levels in the parameter, but rather the number of hospitalisations, which seems to me to be a more stable factor. Clear communication is more necessary than ever. I therefore call on you to learn from what has gone wrong over the past few weeks. We do not need dark yellow or light orange, there is no need for levels 3.4 or 4.2. With clear, predictable and logical communication we have a hold and we know where we stand. I also hope that extra attention will be paid to mental well-being, because we have a long winter ahead of us and there is very little perspective. Where we still had a sense of solidarity in the first wave, a lot of people now feel that they are on their own. The €67 million for mental health care is available. I hope we can see the result soon. Indeed, we need everyone, team sports with 11 million inhabitants, and certainly also the team that makes the choices. We're counting on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u28	Madam President, Prime Minister, you would like to stress that we are at the top in Europe. Unfortunately, that is indeed the case. During the first wave, we were on top of the high number of deaths and now, unfortunately, we are also at the top of the countries in Europe that are hit hardest by this second wave. The first objective you mentioned earlier was to ensure, unlike in the spring, that non-COVID care is stopped or postponed as little as possible. You have been able to achieve this objective since this week, because in practice it is already there. The water is already on the lips of the hospitals. Maybe that's why I didn't get an answer to my question about hospital capacity. Prime Minister, the Wilmès government was put in the saddle to deal with the corona crisis. That was her only job and she failed across the whole line. You can better wrap it up, you can better communicate, but you're actually doing exactly the same thing, which is hiding behind the facts. I read an interview with your corona commissioner, where it was about the situation I outlined (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u29	Prime Minister, I have asked you about the desperate situation in the event sector and unfortunately I have received too few answers. Before this plenary session, I spoke on the phone with Dj Oli Soquette, the best guinguette organizer in Liège or even in the Kingdom. He explained to me that his turnover had decreased by 91%. How can he keep up with the fact that he still has to pay 5 to 6 000 euros a month in fixed costs? We must help this sector, not only for social reasons, but also for hope. Because one day, there'll be an after-virus and we can start partying again. We'll see each other again! We'll be able to have a good time together again! And for that, the entire event sector must hold. It must hold because when the light comes back, when the virus is gone, there will be room for the feast. This goal will push us to be in solidarity with each other, because very quickly, we must get rid of this virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u30	Mr Prime Minister, you have said a few things that sound very nice to me: steadfastness, clarity, team sport and responsibility. It is true that everyone in Parliament has a responsibility, in particular to translate the message as well and as firmly as possible to the citizens. When I look at the testing strategy, I still dare to make a suggestion: let the people who can work work work. Make sure our economy doesn't stand still. Perhaps we should have the courage to think about a smarter test strategy whereby we put those who work telework in second place in order to at least allow those who are needed in the workplace to undergo a test. In any case, I thank you for your plea and I am counting on you, as are 11 million other citizens of our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u31	Prime Minister, I am glad to hear that we can trust the existing measures, no matter how much we feel about them all, and no matter how difficult it was for the government to choose. I am also glad to hear that the catering industry is really not the culprit, but that we have all contributed a lot to it by perhaps following the rules less well. I also heard yesterday in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs that, following the measures, the government will provide support for the sectors that are now hard hit. I hope that we can reduce the negative figures with these measures as much as possible and that we can accommodate better times.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u32	Mr De Croo, I expected a Liberal Prime Minister to answer the questions about the legal basis of your actions. You say that the measures are easy to enforce, but when you say that the basis is unconstitutional, we have a problem not only with the rule of law but also with enforcement. You are giving room to those who do not want to follow the measures, and of course we should not have that today. It is said that it is a team sport and I agree with it but then we have to introduce rules that are indisputable. You must provide a clear and well-founded framework for the measures taken and beyond the generalities that you have debated here. You are the executive and we want you to support the measures correctly and implement them within the rule of law. That is the minimum we can expect from you, otherwise this will lead to chaos and non-enforceability of the measures. We absolutely don't want that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u33	For practical reasons, Prime Minister, I propose that you allow Mr. Patrick Prévot to put his question last, so that he can approach the cultural sector and the event at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u34	Prime Minister, like many, I am concerned because the health situation is very worrying. I am concerned about the consequences for the physical and mental health of citizens, as well as the growing doubt about the political measures that are being taken. In the first wave, we feel a transition to anger and incomprehension, even rebellion and growing doubts about these measures, with a sense of solidarity and a greater or lesser commitment to health provisions. Since I am in contact with many doctors and, in particular, general practitioners, I intend to report that more and more people are questioning basic health measures: the usefulness of screening, quarantine and tracing methods. A very large proportion already rejects the idea of vaccination. In a broad sense, science is really being called into question. This climate of suspicion will not help in the coming days and weeks. Tomorrow, you will have to take decisions that will have far-reaching consequences and that will inevitably divide society once again - while we must, more than ever, show solidarity with the direct and indirect victims of this crisis. When I speak of victims, of course, it is by thinking about the physical and psychological distress of people who suffer from long VOCID. Those people who have lost their jobs and are trying in vain to contact CAPAC are literally screwing up a cable because they have no choice but to turn to mental health centres. It is really urgent that they be listened to and heard. We must have the humility to admit that we cannot predict a way out of this crisis. On the other hand, we can and must send a reassuring message about the urgent psychological accompaniment that is really needed. Mr Prime Minister, whatever decisions will be taken tomorrow, without communication and pedagogy, the rate of adherence to protection measures will be low. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u35	Madam President, Prime Minister, everyone is seeing the figures rise again. People think back to spring and worry. Then people could count down the weeks. It was almost summer and almost better weather. Almost they could see each other again and grab hold of each other. Mr Prime Minister, for many there is no such perspective. Some people, many people even, are tired of fighting Corona and the dark winter months are at the door. They are uncertain about their health and their job. It is not surprising that people experience more and more pressure mentally and that some, unfortunately, go under, even go under. It's not surprising that some people have very dark thoughts. Prime Minister, it will then help to keep others close and just be in touch with others. The necessary restrictions affect everyone, but loneliness affects some people harder, much harder. Not everyone has family or friends in the immediate vicinity. Prime Minister, you have rightly already taken very tough measures. They're punitive measures, but they're justified and necessary. Colleagues, we are likely to need some serious, necessary measures. However, we must not forget how corona works. We do not yet know the effects of the recent measures. We can see its effects on loneliness. After all, these effects follow immediately. We must therefore ensure that everyone can maintain it in the current difficult situation and that it remains bearable. Mr Prime Minister, that is why I have the following question. Today's justified measures are affecting us, and certainly the vulnerable in our society. What measures do you take with your entire team in all policy areas to further support that vulnerability and certainly also to prevent the unification? Prime Minister, we may or may not be able to grab each other, but we certainly cannot solve each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u36	Thank you for your questions. I think you're both referring to the complexity, human, of what we're asking. I have repeatedly stressed, in my general reply, the need to avoid unnecessary contacts as far as possible. In addition, social contact, without a specific need, is exactly what we need. That is a very difficult balance. For our physical health, we should not have any contact. For our mental health we are looking for solutions to maintain that connection with others. I am aware that this is a very difficult balance. In the choices we've made, we've paid a lot of attention to the psychosocial needs of each of us. For example, we have emphasized the hug contact or close contact, as Mr Vandenbroucke has mentioned. We have brought this to 1 and not to 0, as some reports have indicated. We make individual sports possible and we are not very strict on individual sports together with others. We are fully aware that respect for balance is not an easy exercise. We must take this into account in the decisions we and the Länder take. This is why, from the beginning of the first wave, many steps have been taken to make access to front-line psychological assistance easier for people who need it. Primary psychological care is reimbursed for everyone, including children, young people and citizens over 65 years of age. In order to ensure a better orientation towards psychological care, the occupational doctor can now also be included in the convention as a person entitled to refer patients to the psychologist. Video consultations are now also made possible. In our view, it is important that people who need help take that step. We know very well that this is even more difficult today than usual. We know that for people who have mental problems that step and ask for help is often one of the difficult elements. At a time like this, of course, that is very difficult. That is why we have ensured that additional resources are available. EUR 11.7 million has been earmarked for the extra around 156 full-time equivalent psychologists. As for adherence to the measures, this is not only the restrictive side which involves the use of police and other services. If that were the only way we could act, we would face a huge difficulty. Personally, I am convinced that adherence to the measures is linked to their simplicity and to the fact that they are clear and understandable. People need to know what the measurements are for. That's the main point. It is to make it clear, even if it is sometimes complex, that our individual behaviour has an impact on the speed of spread of the virus and that it is not a function of a person's remoteness. This virus can affect close people who are vulnerable, like our parents, our grandparents, an older neighbour. So making it clear that it is our individual behaviour that helps slow down the spread and save vulnerable people is important! You know, being vulnerable, we'll all be at some point in our lives. If we now ask healthy people to make these few efforts, it is not difficult to understand, because at some point we will all be in this situation, alas, and we will be glad that others can take care of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u37	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. As you said, the fight against this virus is a team effort, a team of 11 million Belgians. It must not be a slogan, it must become a reality on the ground. That is really what we need to work with and inform people with a lot of pedagogy. We must not relax our efforts in this regard. Having said that, it seems essential to us to start a much broader debate at the federal level on all these issues aimed at restoring that health confidence, restoring that institutional confidence, because if we deny this problem at the federal level, it will inevitably turn into a time bomb.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u38	Mr Prime Minister, of course we are thinking of Corona mainly of patients in the hospital and sick people who are having difficulty breathing. But loneliness also has a suffocating effect. It's just not visible or less visible. I am therefore pleased and very grateful that you and your team also have an eye for the suffocating loneliness, want to act against it, show empathy and recognise the importance of social well-being. With this, Prime Minister, show that you do not forget anyone in this crisis. The sp.a will already contact our local administrators and militants, just now, coronaproof, people in isolation. We don't want to leave anyone behind. We all want to tackle the crisis together, ladies and gentlemen. All together and in solidarity, tous ensemble et solidarity, we will tackle the crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u39	Madam President, Prime Minister, the people, especially children, who are being abused and abused at home and who are dealing with intra-family violence, we failed in the first lockdown. We let them down, we don't have to make a fuss about that. After all, all the aid organisations had warned us that these people would be first in sight and the first victims of a lockdown. The number of reports during that period has tripled, and this is only about the children who have found the way to aid. So there's still a huge dark number underneath. We have failed them. De facto we are again in a light lockdown today. Perhaps even stricter measures will follow tomorrow. One can say that one did not see it coming, even if it had been warned, but one cannot claim that again. At the start of the corona epidemic, specialists also pointed out that children, from the moment they need to be more at home in such a situation, are no longer able to give signals to, for example, schools, sports leaders or others. They really find themselves in an even more isolated situation and need to undergo even more violence. The Flemish government immediately jumped on this: emergency measures were taken and a task force was even started with several ministers. Among other things, information was invested by keeping helplines open longer, Flemish minister Demir has opened flight hotels, schools are kept open, children in vulnerable situations have room outside school hours, all kinds of measures. However, Flanders is only one link, because the really acute files come at federal level, at police and at justice. In the previous lockdown, I asked if the police figures in question have increased, but I never got any figures. Until today, the deafening silence in this problem remains. Prime Minister, what did you learn from the first lockdown? What are you taking to the consultation committee tomorrow, now that we're going back to a lockdown? What will you do in concrete terms? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u40	Mrs van Peel, indeed, intra-family violence is a priority issue for this government, not just during curfew. You will have noticed that in the coalition agreement there is a great deal of attention to this. The figures you're quoting are correct. During the period March-April there was an increase in telephone helplines for partner violence. The causes are relatively broad: increasing job insecurity, increased care for children, etc. As you know, this is not an isolated competence and requires a coordinated approach by the various governments in our country. The recently established Inter-Ministerial Conference on Women's Rights has identified three priority areas of action based on research on the first lockdown. Firstly, a strengthening of prevention by more additional staff for Dutch-speaking and French-speaking helplines and chats, and the use of pharmacies as a point of contact for victims of intra-family violence. Secondly, protection and support. Because it is not always easy for general practitioners to identify injuries, so-called dixitat tests are used, which are based on the statements made by the persons concerned, with the necessary evidence such as photographs. In addition, the three sexual violence care centres remain open day and night in order to receive victims. Third and last, prosecution. The fight continues to be an absolute priority within our police zones. The public prosecutors have also been asked to organise themselves as efficiently as possible in order to take action against all forms of intra-family violence and to ensure continuity in the handling of the files. As you know, we have taken measures on curfew between midnight and 5 a.m. It is very clear which categories are allowed to move at night. It is quite clear that people who are in a vulnerable situation may, at any time, even at the time of curfew, go on the road to find suitable help.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u41	Mr Prime Minister, I am sorry, but I do not hear much news and I am awake from that. That you have ensured that the curfew will not serve for those who have to flee home at night, it would still be lacking. But where do these people have to run to? How are we gonna track down pro-actively? After all, these are things that can be done; the police can be used to proactively go to families where they know there is intra-family violence. The lockdown should not stop them from entering and aid should also be involved. Buildings must be opened to these people so that they do not have to sit constantly in that family situation. Justice can also move faster. There is so much you can do, even for a better flow of information. I asked your majority for urgency last week to ensure that professional secrecy during this period cannot prevent it from being reported if someone knows that a child is being abused or abused. However, this has been voted down and you are standing here today with zero new measures. Shame on you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u42	Prime Minister, if there were still people who doubted that this virus affects everyone, I think that no one can ignore it anymore. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish a speedy recovery to our previous Prime Minister, but also to all those who are currently fighting this virus. Prime Minister, as far as VOCID-19 is concerned, we have little certainty, but one thing is certain: the more we limit contacts, the more we allow hospitals to breathe, and you understand that. It was for this reason, Prime Minister, that you took difficult, drastic and sometimes misunderstood measures. There is no doubt that they are driven by a single will, that is to say, to reduce admission figures in the hospital sector. Much has been said about the sectors affected and the Horeca. We had a long debate yesterday. I am pleased, and I welcome the government's willingness to further support this sector. But next to this one, several areas could not even get their heads out of the water after the first wave. I am, of course, thinking of the event sector. These service providers live from the feast, activity, the restored freedom, but also from culture. As you have said and repeated, and I agree with you, 200 %: health is a priority, but events and culture represent thousands of jobs which, precisely, create this social bond that is so dear to us, the Belgians. I have understood that the logic for the moment is to continue along these difficult but indispensable measures for our hospital sector and for our healthcare staff, but we will obviously have to be able to be a state too, alongside this sector. Prime Minister, what measures are planned for these sectors, which sometimes feel forgotten? I want to talk about the event sector and the cultural sector. Finally, what message do you intend to deliver to the concertation committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u43	Mr Prévot, as you said, the cultural and event sector is clearly one of the most affected by the current crisis. Indeed, in essence, cultural and events are practiced with all of us, together. Individually, it's another exercise. Consequently, the fact that this sector is based on social contacts makes activities very difficult and, unfortunately, for a very long period of time. It is also known that the sector has made considerable efforts to organize itself. He has shown great creativity and used new technologies, innovation so that activities can take place, adapting behaviour. But the impact on activities and incomes is difficult to overcome. Several support measures have been taken, including for this sector: temporary unemployment for force majeure extended until the end of the year, the right of access for self-employed people which is used by many artists, the doubling of tax deductibility for events which are unfortunately known today that there are not many demands, the freezing of the decline in unemployment of many artists and the postponement of certain contributions. Among the decisions taken last Friday was an additional package of measures. We are talking about the doubling of the bridge law, the extension of the bridge law to support the resumption of activities, the ONSS exemption, etc. These measures are quite broad but apply to those who are obliged to stop their activities. The coming weeks will not offer much flexibility to activities. I understand, therefore, that this is leading this sector. But you have to be very clear. If we remain in a situation with very high rates of hospitalization and infection, we know very well that this sector could never resume. Therefore, taking measures as decided on Friday, which are quite restrictive and hard but limited in time, is the best thing to do, also for this sector. The cultural and event sector cannot function if the population is ill. We must first normalize the health situation and then we will all be there to support and benefit ourselves from this sector that is very close to our hearts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u44	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, I fully agree with you. Health remains a priority. There would be no sense in allowing the event sector and culture to function with a sick population. That must really be the priority. But, Prime Minister, one day we will come out. One day, we'll need to go have a drink with friends. We'll need to go to the restaurant. We'll need to go to the fair with our little nieces and our little neves. On that day, of course, we will need these fora, these restaurateurs, these event personnel. We will also need these artists who make us dream. Prime Minister, in this anxious period, we need more than anything to dream about and have these prospects for the future. In any case, I hope that it will not be too late at that time and that they will not feel that they have been abandoned. In any case, I hear your government's willingness to continue to support them. I think it is a message of encouragement that must be delivered to them today. You are more than ever at their side and I will be careful to ensure that this is still the case in the weeks and months to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u45	Minister, is it the absolute priority that the care sector should remain intact? Of course. Does the hospitality business deserve help? Of course. The government responds appropriately and with support for the many affected. Of course, the event sector should be included in the support package. The café in Kerkstraat is now closed for perhaps four days, but the event sector has been closed for seven months. The hard reality is that he will never be able to restart normally as long as there are limitations. It is high time we helped the event sector in the long term. The more than 3,000 entrepreneurs and 80,000 employees have had sleepless nights for months now. Will their company still be there in the summer of 2021? That's the question they're worried about. We all read, as Mr Hedebouw said, the testimony of the Ghent dj Jef Eagl, who knows 31 people in the event sector who have died in recent months. So painful. The government must therefore include the event sector in the distribution of the envelope of the EUR 500 million support measures. Minister, will you support a voluntary hibernation of the event sector so that it could survive? Will there be structural financial support adapted to the size of the companies in the sector, with many small ones and some large ones? Is there going to be a new deal with the banks? Can temporary unemployed in the sector continue to fulfil certain tasks? I give the Dutch model as an example.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u46	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our thoughts naturally go, first of all, to those who are confronted with the virus, those who are known and do not know who are working on the health front. The end of the crisis is not yet in sight. However, the second wave also brings the economic crisis into a new phase. Last week, Governor Wunsch of the National Bank said that general support measures for the economy or a massive financial revival plan as in France are not the order of the day. He called for very targeted measures for vulnerable people and sectors, including catering, so specific support for those who really need it. After all, money does not grow on trees. But we can't stop at that. This crisis is also the time to speed up the modernisation of our economy and to shape a structural relance. The reform of the labour market is crucial. "Arrêtons de mettre au chômage des personnes utiles" was the title of an opinion piece published last week in the French-speaking press. "Can't people in the world of culture, horeca, events help in areas that need it?" This morning, the message appeared that Minister Crevits has taken the necessary measures to transfer workers in temporary unemployment to the hospital sector. The labour market reform ambition was also mentioned 12 times in the government agreement and can be achieved in consultation with the social partners. Minister, do you share the vision of the Governor of the National Bank? What do you think are the priorities for this labour market reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Following the decisions taken in the Consultation Committee, the government has immediately decided to release an envelope of EUR 500 million to help the catering and sectors directly concerned. Together with my colleagues from Social Affairs and the self-employed and SMEs, we have proposed four measures. We also spoke to the sectors on Sunday to explain these four measures to them. Firstly, an exemption from patronial social contributions for the third quarter for the catering, discotheques, the event sector including technicians, cultural events, concert halls and fairground attractions. Secondly, subsidy for the sector-specific fund of the catering industry to guarantee 100% of the end-of-year premiums of all employees. Thirdly, the doubling of the amount of the transitional right for self-employed persons who have to close. Fourthly, the extension of the right of bridging for self-employed persons who can reopen their business but have a significant fall in turnover. The intention is to table these four measures tomorrow in the Council of Ministers and to present them to you very quickly. I have discussed these difficulties, the protocols and the prospects for the future with many sectors, including the care, cultural and event sectors. At the same time, we are taking various measures with the government to support the economy, such as the reintroduction of temporary unemployment due to force majeure by corona, the postponement of patronial contributions and the possibility of enjoying a pay-off plan for the payment of these contributions and the extension of support measures for artists. Workers in the cultural sector are entitled to the following measures until the end of the year: they are entitled to a blank period so that they are not penalised by the lack of work, by the retention of their copyright income and by an easier procedure for obtaining unemployment benefits. I will also propose measures for my colleagues to recruit students and pensioners in the health and education sector. I will also propose a crisis measure. In particular, I am responding to the request of the Flemish Government and Minister Hilde Crevits. An employee who is temporarily unemployed in a sector in crisis will be able to work in an important sector, such as in hospitals or rest homes, guaranteeing that he will be able to resume his work afterwards. In order to support the consumer sector and the care staff, I will ask for an additional budget for the consumer cheque, which was promised by the previous government. I will also contact sectors that have been severely affected, such as the travel and event sector, to see what specific measures can be proposed. Finally, I am working with my colleagues on measures, such as postponing the repayment of loans, and I am trying to reach an agreement with the banking and insurance sectors to support our economy. This morning, I invited my colleagues from the Länder to an Inter-Ministerial Conference on Economy and Work to jointly plan integrated and coherent support measures for the economy through videoconference. All the contacts I have had with the social partners show very clearly that we must offer entrepreneurs and employees a long-term perspective. I will therefore argue within the government that our support measures cover the very short term, the medium term, but also the long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u48	Madam President, Minister, I recall from your reply that you remain in dialogue with the event and culture sectors and that the whole government is aware that we will need those sectors after Corona. Don't forget the much wider sector of association life. We didn't actually talk about that. May I make another appeal to the government? Today, the cultural and association sectors adhere strictly to the protocols and organise them very safely. No one to contradict that. Give those who work the chance to continue working. These are necessary contacts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u49	Thank you for your reply, Minister. The government's ambition is an activity rate of 80%, which means that we have to say goodbye to immobilism in social consultation, overregulation and under-the-ground corporatism. This level of activity is very important, because it is also the foundation of a strong social policy that this government aspires to. We look forward to your policy statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u50	Madam President, Minister, we have the gloves, give us the hands. That was part of the staff of the Erasmus hospital that spontaneously came out on Monday to make it clear that they can't handle it anymore. Today they see the second wave that is already on the premises. Money has been promised in recent months, but not one euro has been seen on the ground and not one staff member has been added, while many staff are sick. You said on television that these resources will be available, but that this cannot happen overnight. Mr. Secretary, are you serious? You cannot decide quickly to increase resources on the ground? That was decided months ago, and today these people have to tackle the second wave without additional resources, without additional staff. However, if there is a humanitarian disaster somewhere, we will decide immediately to release money. A nurse, Mrs Valle, representative of the nurses of Belgium, stated on the radio that "when there is a humanitarian catastrophe somewhere, we react immediately". Today, the nursing staff is a disaster-stricken population. My question is not what you will do in a few months' time, but what you will do today. What will you do today to meet the needs of health care personnel in hospitals, who are no longer able to cope with the workload? Will you make sure that there is a quick raise, for example? Will you ensure that support staff are recruited quickly? Will you allow the medical professions or nurses who do not work in the hospitals today to help in the hospitals, but with a decent statute which will pay them properly? Will you also ensure, for example, that students in the medical and nursing departments are mobilised? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u51	Madam President, Mrs Merckx, my heart is truly with you and with the people of Erasmus. What you are saying may be repeated for everyone: the problem of our hospital capacity is not just a problem of beds and machines, it is a problem of people, of hands. Those people and those hands are very tired today, they've already done a great deal. Now there's another wave coming at them and it's already pounding on them. It is very good that you underline that and that these people say that and keep saying that. My heart is all yours. Of course, our minds are also yours, I think, because you are wise..... says that we are not going to tell trade unions and employers exactly how to increase wages, or that we are not going to say where people need to come from instead of institutions that give advice and know-how. You don't decide that from today to tomorrow morning. People don't decide that so quickly. I therefore hesitate to say that again. I have already said it to several of my staff who are working on this: it is annoying to say again and again that EUR 1.2 billion will be added to the new budget for health care approved on Monday. EUR 1.2 billion will be added, for more staff in hospitals, for better wages, as well as EUR 200 million for psychological support. I find it annoying to say that again here, because there is indeed no such thing in the morning. This is how politics, governance and society works. We do need urgent action on the ground, but these huge investments will not be there tomorrow morning. One may be angry at me for that, one may be angry at the world. But that's the way it is. We need to ask for a little patience there, while people are making huge efforts. In the meantime, we're not blind to what's happening now and here. We are also thinking about what can be done to provide immediate assistance on the spot. I'm not improvising that. We will undoubtedly talk about the first line and the doctors in the first line. What can be done here and now also plays. In the coalition agreement there is a huge effort for health care. The budget for health care, which was approved by the RIZIV on Monday, increases by 7.5%. This isn't talk. It's approved. We must ask for patience until it is with the people, while the people are under enormous pressure. We need to make sure this virus doesn't run around like that anymore. That's the very first thing we have to take care of right now. Otherwise, people in hospitals will perish anyway, even if we invest twice as much. We all have to stop the virus. I repeat that call again, but my heart is with what you say.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u52	Thank you, Minister. May I ask you to conclude faster to limit time?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u53	Minister, I'm sorry, but what you're saying is really not normal! I can't settle for that. Erasmus's staff is out. They said, "We have the gloves, give us our hands!" They want means now. The second wave is here, and you're telling me once again that we still have to wait months. No! And you say, "I don't want to improvise." But we didn't plan anything, did we? Has nothing been planned as a plan for the event that the second wave would arrive? What measures would be taken? Why don't we get the medical students involved? If we were to offer contracts to nurses who no longer work in the hospital sector, for example, to help these people for several months! They don't hold anymore! They're saying it. It's not for nothing that they're going down the street today, again. I don't think you're really measuring the situation. We are facing a serious shortage problem. We need the means. It takes money for these people, too. Frankly, Minister, your copy will have to be reviewed!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u54	Minister, we have the pleasure of finding you under another hat. Of course, the situation is worrying. You have had the courage, even the austere duty, to take strong measures. Such measures may still need to be taken. But in our fight against this epidemic, the strategy of testing and searching for outbreaks of contamination is fundamental. I understand that when test lines are saturated, we obviously have to move on to prioritization. Of course, symptomatic patients need to be the first to be tested and they need to be tested quickly with a short response time to be able to then implement effective tracing. If the response time is five to six days, the tracing is totally ineffective. So we had to make that prioritization. I would point out that many general practitioners today, before this prioritization, were monopolized and could practically no longer care for the sick, because they had to answer the phone and do administrative work in relation to the tests, the results of which anyway came too late. If I understand that, I think the salivary test is very important at the community level. Of course, it also borrows the PCR line and sature as well. But as soon as we have the machines in order, the problem should be solved. So where is the availability of machines for our federal platforms and how can we use tracking more effectively in coordination with the Regions to ensure that clusters are identified more accurately, dynamically and not statically? It is important to look not only for contaminated people but for the history of contamination in order to carry out more effective prevention work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u55	Madam President, I believe that Mr Bacquelaine, who obviously knows very well the first line in his capacity as a doctor, has correctly defined the diagnosis. If general practitioners are attacked by people who want to get tested, the system blocks. That is why we have set priorities. Perhaps I should like to remind you once again that "we" implies all the Ministers of Public Health, on Monday, under the chairmanship of Mr Wouter Beke, representative of the Flemish Government. Mr. Beke chaired the meeting. Together, we have taken the decision to give priority to symptomatic patients with regard to testing, not forgetting obviously other priority situations, as well as in the case of clusters reported in nursing homes or police teams, or persons belonging to target groups, who must be hospitalized or admitted to an institution. We've resumed the current testing. Of course, you are right: there are potentially very intelligent, very effective strategies that can be developed on the basis of rapid tests, antigens and salivary tests. But I still want to repeat my precaution in this area, particularly with regard to salivary tests. To what extent are they effective and sufficiently sensitive? You will certainly agree with me that it needs to be scientifically validated. They must be installed throughout the analysis chain and, for example, linked to data collection. So we have to adapt all the systems! It will therefore take time. Even if, for example, in Liège, we discover very important effects in terms of their testing capacity, validate the tests and install them in a national system will take time. Professor Herman Goossens, microbiologist from Antwerp, chairs a task force testing. The latter deals with the subject and defines the strategic axes of incorporating salivary tests or antigen tests into the testing strategy. Give me some time! I hope that within a few days I will know the definition of the strategy; and that it will probably be implemented a few weeks later. In short, the implementation of this strategy will take time, but it will take time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u56	Minister, I will ask you to conclude. I would also like to pass the floor to Mrs Depoorter, whom I have forgotten to join. But before that, we may hear Mr. Bacquelaine for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u57	Minister, I hear your answer very well. Since you are talking about the task force testing, I am still surprised that the University of Liège, which is the basis of the salivary testing and enjoys international recognition in this field – we are talking about it in Canada, we are talking about it in the international press – is not associated with this task force testing. I think it's a mistake. It seems to me that it should be associated, since the testing of communities is very important. Moreover, the Walloon Region has decided to do so for the staff of the rest homes. I think she's right to do it. There is classical Nasopharyngeal testing for individual screening, but for community testing, there is a line to use as quickly as possible so that testing can be increased in communities. I read in the press this morning that in China, after thirteen contaminations, in Qingdao, ten million tests are suddenly carried out in four days. This is a bit of a fantasy, but I believe that we must do everything possible to have machines in our laboratories capable of multiplying collective testing. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u58	Madam President, Minister, the advantage of being the last to speak in a debate is that the last speaker followed what had been said before him or her. I would like to go back to that. Control in corona times is difficult. I understand. Your inheritance isn't a bad thing either. You're asking for time to validate the tests. I understand that, too. However, I would like to point out that I mentioned the rapid tests here at the beginning of March 2020. It is a pity that they have not yet been validated and that there is no framework yet. Of course, you are not to blame. However, I would ask you to move quickly and to allow our hospitals and our society to use these tests quickly. Minister, you also ask for patience for the people of care. My husband, a doctor, can't go on. I left home, and he's out of time for patience. He gets hundreds of phones a day and sees hundreds of patients. It's very difficult. You indicate that the system would block if the government had not changed the testing strategy. This morning, however, the system was down for two hours, which meant that a lot of patients had to be disappointed. Mr Minister, I am now asking what I am standing for. She's dealing with the corona measures and the corona barometer. Will you take that barometer to the Conciliation Committee tomorrow to avoid us getting a general lockdown? Will you ensure that we take regional and very targeted measures? Minister, in the Committee on Health and in the Special Committee on COVID-19, we have made a great many recommendations over the last few months. Will you take our recommendations? Will we have a parliamentary debate on these recommendations? Will we be able to tackle the current crisis together, or will we have to stand on the sidelines and watch as it was?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u59	Mrs Depoorter, I may surprise you if I say that I am prepared to take the blame for everything. This is a matter of political responsibility, one must take the blame for everything, and that is not a problem at all. On Monday, under the chairmanship of Wouter Beke, we decided that we would change the testing strategy because that decision had to be taken urgently. Unfortunately, that was leaked and your husband and other general practitioners were obviously angry. I was one of the nine involved, and since someone had to explain, I started explaining it on Tuesday. I will continue to do so, which is a matter of political responsibility. If the system is down for two hours, I don't have much to do with it. Anyway, we're all responsible, the Flemish and the federal government together. What you're saying is right, we need to switch quickly. However, it is precisely that rapid switching whatever makes it difficult for your husband and many other people on the ground, we must also realise that. I am inspired by what you say here about the barometer and the role of Parliament, and I hope my colleagues will forgive me. The barometer is a very important project, but we must now realize that when one is in the eye of the storm a barometer is not a great help. One is in the eye of the storm and decisions must therefore be taken on how to get out of that storm, how to protect oneself from it. If one is out of the storm, then such a barometer becomes very relevant again and then one must have that instrument effectively at one's disposal. Our Prime Minister, Alexander De Croo, has said on several occasions this week that we must now develop a strategy to achieve, once we are out of the storm, a sustainable situation. He's right about that, I think. We need to define this strategy, and that is an agreement we have to make with the people. In fact, you have a point to make when you say that Parliament should be involved in defining such a strategy, and I agree with that. So we all have to define a strategy to go back to a sustainable situation if we can get out of the storm. We need to discuss this with all governments, and we will. It is undoubtedly something that Parliament must think about.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u60	Minister, we are in the storm, but we must also ask ourselves how we ended up in it. During the summer, the Committee on Health and the Special Committee on the COVID-19 pandemic met several times. In this we have clearly advocated a regional approach. The province of Antwerp has taken a regional approach, not other provinces or regions. Now we're in the storm and now we have to row. However, we need to be focused on rowing. We must ensure that our social and cultural functioning is maintained, that our patients do not slip spiritually and that our care providers can do their job. Time and negligence are the biggest allies of the virus. In crisis management, we have absolutely no time. We need to act accurately now. If we run rapid tests, we can also deal with presymptomatic patients. From the start of this crisis, we know that this is very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u61	Mr and Madam Minister, last night we witnessed a heartfelt tribute to Samuel Paty. I assume our thoughts are all with him and his neighbors. Mr Paty, a teacher, a man, a daddy, was beheaded because he was a teacher, three hours drive from Parliament. What I used to learn on the school banks is, among other things, that one does not have to argue or discuss the exact science: 1 plus 1 remains 2 and the world is round. But social studies, the profession that Mr Paty taught, is not an exact science. Our society is not an exact science. Madam President, you said it very well. People like Mr Paty are trying to open the window on that world. And that is important, also in the process of integration. We need to know what social model one enters, what our values are, what our standards are, and that it is not an Islamic state here. That teacher was the victim of an Islamic terrorist. Again, in Paris. President Macron announced severe measures: 200 illegal criminals will be deported and 51 dubious non-profit organisations and associations will be dissolved. The social media will also examine who has made statements of support, and they will also be prosecuted. We held a debate yesterday in the Defence Committee, to which the members of the Committee on Home Affairs were invited, on the removal of the military from our street view. The N-VA yesterday was the only party defending that the military cannot leave and cannot leave, supported by the police, because they do not have the capacity at all. When it rains in Paris, it drips here in Brussels. That's an expensive lesson that the past should have taught us. So I ask the question: what will we do now; what will the government do? Will we be reactive again? Does anything have to happen again first? Or will we now take preventive action on the same wave (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u62	Mr Metsu, what happened in France last week is repulsive and unacceptable. Western democracy was struck in her heart. It was an attack on our freedom of expression and we will never allow our freedoms to be violated. More than that, it is our duty, like Samuel Paty, to transfer those values to our children. I received the French ambassador yesterday and I expressed our condolences after that cowardly act. I also offered the support of our country. Since the attacks and the parliamentary committee of inquiry, we have made significant progress in our country: countries work together and services work together to detect and combat terrorism. We patrol the Internet against hate speech, we put hate propagandaists on the terrorist list. We have one message for those who sow hatred and terror here: we persecute you, we condemn you, and we expel you from the country. But what I will not do, what we must not do, is fall into the trap of the same extremists, because they want only one thing: they want to divide, they want to turn people against each other and they want to portray communities as the enemy. The threat level in our country remains at level two, but I would like to add this explicitly. There is reason to be alert and there is certainly no reason for complacency. The zero risk does not exist, we know that. Our intelligence services are working day and night to ensure the safety of our citizens. The French struggle is also our fight; we stand shoulder to shoulder. What distinguishes barbarism from civilization is the rule of law. What distinguishes civilization from barbarism is our rule of law. We're not gonna give in a millimeter to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u63	Of course, I fully agree with all the expressions of sympathy already expressed to the French. In addition to the Minister of Justice's reply, I can assure you that the safety of both schools and all other potential targets is closely monitored by local and federal police, in close consultation with the OCAD and the Crisis Centre. This has been arranged, inter alia, in a ministerial letter to the local police providing for close consultation between the local police and the schools. That so-called PLP 41 of 2006 was supplemented in 2018 by guidelines for concrete agreements in a protocol between school management and police on threats of terrorism and extremism. This will also link with local intelligence and security cells and the local task force of the Radicalism Action Plan. I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u64	Thank you both for the clear answer. But let me be clear: I had addressed my question to the Prime Minister. I wanted a strong signal from the Prime Minister, the same Prime Minister, who was surprised just now when the President gave him the floor to pay tribute to our neighbour. Mr Van Quickenborne, I would like to remind you, above all, that we are going with you on the French wave. You've got a big problem. You rule together with Green and Ecolo. One of the presidents of Ecolo tweeted this morning that she wished everyone a very good day, sauf au governore français, because that had made a little too compulsive and too strict decisions. That is simply outrageous. I'm very curious how you'll deal with that. I want to finish with a nice quote that is very appropriate for today:to teach is to open someone's eyes. Dear federal government, open your eyes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u65	Madam Minister, the execution, the decapitation of a French teacher, Samuel Paty by an Islamist in France, far too late, brings along a number of measures to safeguard our way of life from these Islamic fanatics. Too late, because this repulsive example is not a single fact, but yet another terrorist act in a row. A number of measures are being proposed in France: a ban on Islamic foundations that run counter to our democracy, the detection of foreigners spreading extremist Islamic ideas, police investigations into statements of support to the perpetrator of the decapitation and control of imams. In our country it remains deafeningly silent, especially when it comes to naming the problem, naming the cause, and that is extremist Islam. Decapitation of a teacher who wants to illustrate freedom of speech in his classroom is clearly worth less indignation, because where are the street protests, where are the knees, where are the mourning records, who makes the murals of the victim, where are the Pano reports? I haven't noticed them all in the last few days. I address myself to the government, to you, Madam Minister, before there is a terrorist attack here too. What measures will you take to eradicate Islamism in this country with branch and root?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u66	Madam President, Minister, it was after and for giving a course on freedom of expression that Mr. Samuel Paty was brutally murdered after and for showing some cartoons of Mohammed published by Charlie Hebdo. We can only join all of us here in the tribute that was paid to him last night at the Sorbonne, with words that I found as fair as they were moving. A victim of a lynching on social media, complaints from parents of students for the dissemination of pornographic images – you heard me, broadcast pornographic images – Mr Paty was summoned to the police station four days before being murdered. To my knowledge, he did not receive any special protection either at the academic level or from the police, until he was beheaded in the name of Islam. The French government has already announced concrete actions: strengthening the safety of schools, setting up a joint plan of the interior and justice. Minister, this terrible event shocked us all because of the heinous nature of its realization, but also because of the victim's personality. This is a level of horror that, I believe, had never been reached at the heart of the spread of education, but also at the heart of childhood and adolescence. And of course we cannot help thinking about our own schools, our own teachers, our own children. In Belgium, I know that the government agreement provides for a measure against radicalism. You know, like me, Minister, that still today, a number of the recommendations of the commission in which I participated have not yet been implemented. And we do not need new terrorist attacks to know that Islamist radicalism is latent in our society. Madam Minister, I come to my questions which you have already answered in part in response to my colleague Koen Metsu's question by referring to PLP 41. How many cases of attacks or threats related to religious radicalism have been recorded in recent years? What is the overall level of threat in this area in Belgium? Do you take any special measures in response to what happened in France?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u67	Madam President, in reply to these questions, I can take back what I said earlier, namely that terrorism and extremism have no place in Belgium or in Europe and that we will continue to fight these two reprehensible phenomena with all possible means, including in the coming months and years. As you probably know, the Belgian fight against terrorism and extremism is taking place on various fronts and is part of the National Security Plan. At both administrative and judicial level, all forms of terrorism are being tackled hard. The Body for the Coordination and Analysis of Threat, the OCAD, continuously evaluates the threats and makes punctual and strategic assessments and advice, both on its own initiative and at the request of third parties. Following the recent attacks in Germany and unfortunately last Friday also in France, the OCAD immediately carried out an analysis. On the basis of that evaluation, the Crisis Centre shall determine the necessary measures, ranging from increased vigilance to very concrete physical security of potential targets. The Crisis Centre shall also determine which police and security services are to implement these measures. The Federal Prosecutor's Office and the Federal Judicial Police, including special units, are also conducting dozens of investigations into various forms of extremism and terrorism. These operations are organized in close collaboration with intelligence agencies and foreign partners. This collaboration has been successful. Indeed, several terrorist attacks have been thwarted in recent years. You will understand that we cannot give you any more information, given the ongoing investigations. On the other hand, I intend to evaluate the radicalism plan and rename it "strategic plan extremism", a term that seems to me to better cover its content. I will go into this in more detail in my policy statement. The proactive role of hate propagandists and the incendiary role of social networks will certainly be examined. As we have also recently seen closer to home in Puurs, extremism has tried to use social networks to divert a naturally unacceptable incident and to mount people against each other. The recent attacks have brought terrorism to the attention again, but I can assure you that our services are and will continue to work. I would therefore like to thank them once again on this road. They are essential in the fight against increasingly barbaric terrorism, as we have unfortunately re-established. This is an assignment that I will carry out shoulder to shoulder with the Minister of Justice over the coming months and years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u68	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. The cause is indeed radical Islam, Islamism and not the good citizen, the good Fleming who wants to show his indignation on the street. It is therefore better to show deeds in time than to wait in indulgence. It is better to take immediate action to eradicate Islamextremism than to allow our democratic values to be abused. It is better to save our democracy now than to let our people, our teachers, our cartoonists fall victim to these Islamists. Protecting our people from those who want to destroy her is your job.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u69	Madam Minister, thank you for the clarification you have given us. I understand, of course, that you can't go into detail. As you know, there is an evolution in religious radicalism and terrorism. We must be able to respond effectively, adequately and quickly. In particular, I think it is high time to put on the table some of the recommendations that have been made. I am thinking, for example, of detecting weak signals, and it is certainly not my colleague and neighbour, the former chairman of our Attentats Committee, who will contradict me on this point. I think it's useful. You also know that our group, the MR, is at your side for everything that needs to be set in motion. We've already had warning signals. The attacks in Paris took place a few months before the attacks in Brussels. You have to be careful about it. We have to be able to anticipate. Indeed, it is illusory, Madam Minister, to think that we would be immune to this type of phenomenon here in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u70	You want to intervene on a personal fact, but there wasn't one earlier, Mr. Vanden Burre.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u71	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u72	He's not a colleague!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u73	Madam President, when it comes to a party president, I think it is normal to react.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u74	No, the personal fact concerns a member of the assembly. The question was not about a member of the assembly. I propose to continue. I understand, but the Rules speak of personal fact when a member of the assembly is concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u75	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I wish Mrs Sophie Wilmès every success. I wish him and his loved ones a great deal of courage. Minister, today the pandemic can affect all citizens without distinction, and I am particularly concerned about our police forces. Our police officers are extremely exposed in the field and play a key role in the fight against coronavirus. In my area, for example, there are 80 police officers affected for the Mons police area alone and about 50 for the La Louvière police area. It's huge! What happens in a police station when a police officer is positive for VOCID? He is obviously dismissed and his colleagues are quarantined. But if the testing is not organised for all his colleagues and if the result of this testing is to be expected seven days, there is a risk that a very large number of police stations will have to be closed in the coming weeks. If we don't adapt the testing strategy, we're really running for disaster at the police level. Every effort must be made to preserve our police officers. We need them in the field more than ever. Minister, are you aware of the problem posed by the current testing strategy for our police forces? Do you intend to adapt it? Do you have any idea of the proportion of police officers who are removed from the Kingdom, either because they are tested positive or because they are quarantined? Finally, will local police areas be able to count on the support of the federal police in the future? Will we be able to have federal police reinforcements, given the risk of staff shortages in the coming days?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u76	Mr Thiébaut, the Integrated Police Task Force closely monitors the situation regarding the capacity of the local police areas and the federal police. The Task Force has created a contact centre that collects all the information about capacity and absenteeism. The GPI Task Force encourages local police areas to immediately report their VOCID-19-related absenteeism figures so that proactive actions can be taken in the event of potential operational problems. The situation is not the same throughout the country. There are strong regional and local differences. I have been informed of the closure of a police office and a police station in Namur province, but we are following the situation closely. The provinces of Hainaut, Liège and the City of Brussels record the largest number of absences due to suspicion of contamination or compulsory quarantine. Several agreements have been concluded between the local police areas and the federal police. For example, the GPI task force must be immediately informed when a local police area may no longer be able to provide all of its services. Both the federal and local police must first take the necessary steps in-house to continue to guarantee core missions. In the event that local police areas are unable to fulfil their basic functions, other local police areas should be used to provide support. Local police areas can obviously seek the support of the federal police in maintaining compliance with health measures. With regard to screening, the Minister of Public Health also agreed to speed up, following a letter from my office yesterday, access to screening facilities for the police, fire departments, emergency stations 112 and 101 and emergency services, and to give priority to these tests in the various laboratories so that the loss of operational capacity can also be minimized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u77	Madam Minister, thank you. I heard you were asking for the police to be given priority in the testing phase. I also hope that we can count on the same approach for our firefighters, whose role is also essential. On the other hand, I am somewhat concerned about your statement about the possibility of reinforcement for our local areas. I heard that, in fact, the local areas were being asked for reinforcement first of all from the surrounding areas. But the surrounding areas are all facing the same problem. Really, I urge you to make our federal police help our areas more effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u78	Madam President, Minister, this week the United Nations called the alarm bell. The countries of the Central Sahel are facing multiple crises at the same time. There is a security crisis, an economic crisis, a refugee crisis and a food crisis. So there's famine, too. Corona has made that situation even worse in the Central Sahel. International organisations have for some time indicated that violations of human rights and international humanitarian law are increasing, as well as violence against women and children. In the case of hunger, disease and war, it is often girls and women who are hit hardest, making vulnerable groups even more vulnerable. Madam Minister, the sp.a is convinced that international solidarity is necessary. It is only through solidarity that we are building stability, which we all have an interest in. You've already recorded the glove this week. This week you have allocated EUR 8 million extra humanitarian aid to three countries in the Sahel, namely Burkina Faso, Mali and Niger. That aid was justified because it was more than necessary. At the same time, however, it is also important that we link this humanitarian aid with structural aid. Only in this way will we be able to reverse the tide. Madam Secretary, I have two questions for you. Firstly, what effects do you expect from the humanitarian aid you have promised? Secondly, how do you link this aid to structural support so that we can find a lasting solution to the crises that are affecting the region in question?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u79	Madam President, Mrs Reynaert, thank you for your question. At the moment there are 13 million people who urgently need help in the Sahel region. That is one and a half times more than expected and it shows that corona has a huge impact there, without hospitals full of corona patients. When you see that, you have no choice but to act. That is exactly what Belgium has done, with an additional EUR 5 million for the activities of the Red Cross in Niger and Mali, and with an additional EUR 3 million for the work of the UN in Burkina Faso. In this way, we are making a substantial contribution to emergency aid in the region. Indeed, once again, it is the most vulnerable, women and girls, who are being hit. We literally save lives with pure drinking water and medical care. When you're on the run with your family, it's not obvious to get there. We also invest in the longer term with this emergency aid, by providing local farmers with seeds to ensure their livelihood. Only with long-term sustainable solutions can we make life more bearable there. The region is at war, climate change is already a reality there today, and COOVID has not made it easier. By supporting Belgian aid organisations and by working with local authorities there, we face the challenge. Together we work on our ambitions, on international solidarity. Of course we're not here yet. Corona is a reset, not an end point. There is a need for a comprehensive solution, and I will bet on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u80	Madam Minister, we can only fight such crises with solidarity, even in the future. Humanitarian aid is necessary but not a final solution. A political answer is the way forward. I am pleased that you stress the need for support in this region, including in the longer term. There is a need for a broader strategy for the Sahel. If we are to achieve a long-term solution for the Sahel, we must not forget the position and role of women and girls. You can take the lead there, on behalf of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u81	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u82	By letter dated 19 October 2020, the King's Chief of Staff conveyed to me the wishes of His Majesty the King for the success of the work of this Assembly. By letter of 19 October 2020, the Head of the King's Cabinet sent me the wishes of His Majesty the King for the success of our Assembly's work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u83	By message of 13 October 2020 the Senate of Belgium informs us that it was constituted at its sitting today. By letter dated 13 October 2020, the Belgian Senate informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at the meeting of that day.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u84	Since the number of votes cast is insufficient, we must postpone the counting of the ballots for these appointments to a future plenary session. Since the number of votes cast is insufficient, we should postpone the inclusion of these nominations to a later plenary session. The issue of secret ballots in the context of the VOCID-19 will be discussed at a forthcoming Conference of Presidents. Discussion of the issue of the secret ballots in the Covid-19 context will take place at a forthcoming Conference of Presidents. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u85	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Jan Bertels, Patrick Prévot, Nawal Farih.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u86	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Merckx. Would you like to speak, ma'am?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u87	Madam President, I understood that I had to read the report, since the text was approved only yesterday in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u88	That is why I propose that you make this oral report. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u89	Madam President, this legislative proposal No. 1547 amends the Law of 30 October 2018 on various health provisions with a view to postponing the entry into force of the legal provisions on the establishment of pharmacies opened to the public. It was tabled by Mrs Farih and Mr Bertels and Mr Prévot. The bill obtained urgency during the plenary session of 15 October 2020 and was discussed in the Health Committee on Tuesday 20 October. Thanks to this urgent debate, there is now an oral report. Mr Bertels, the main applicant, explained at the committee meeting that the law adopted in 2018 governing, inter alia, the establishment of pharmacies opened to the public also provides for the abolition of the so-called establishment committee at the FAGG. Article 63 of the Law governs the entry into force of the articles in question on a date to be determined by the King, no later than two years after its publication in the Belgian Official Journal, namely 16 November 2020. Since the implementing acts cover, inter alia, the conditions and procedures for authorisation, they are essential for the application of the new legal provisions. However, these implementing decisions have not yet been taken, among other things, during the current period. In addition, for certain articles, including on-line sales by pharmacies, proceedings were brought before the Constitutional Court. For those reasons, it is necessary to postpone the entry into force of the provisions of the 2018 Law by one year until 1 December 2021. During the general discussion in the committee several members raised the question of whether a one-year delay was sufficient. Other members pointed to the possibility of adopting transitional provisions in autumn 2021, should the Constitutional Court's ruling not be available in time. Mr Bertels confirmed that the one-year deadline would be sufficient. Finally, consultation with the actors in the field is an important factor. The members of the committee indicated that they would be careful to ensure that this was done thoroughly. No further comments were made; all the articles and the entire bill were adopted unanimously in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u90	Thank you for your report, Mrs Merckx. Three speakers were on the list: Ms Depoorter, Mr Bertels and Ms Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u91	Madam President, we will, of course, support this proposal because the legal certainty and continuity of care and accessibility of pharmacies are very important. However, I have made a comment in committee, which I would like to add: the sector would have been more reassured if we had spoken in two years' time. This has not been taken into account in the proposal, but of course we can carry out an evaluation if it is necessary and we could extend the deadline in the future. Another comment is that a procedure is currently in progress and we want to be absolutely sure that the time will be sufficient to complete that procedure for the proper functioning of the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u92	I would like to thank the rapporteur for the correct report. Ladies and gentlemen, pharmacists are on the front line in the fight against COOVID-19 which we now know. They do fantastic work as primary care providers. I would therefore like to express my gratitude to all those Members who, as the report shows, unanimously support this proposal to ensure that there is no legal uncertainty about the establishment of pharmacies. As I said to Mrs Depoorter in committee, the one-year deadline is a reasonable one, given the work of the Constitutional Court, among other things. We will ensure that, within that one-year period, an implementing decision with the sector and the FAGG will be drawn up. This will be possible within one year if the Constitutional Court maintains its normal timing. There's even a little margin on it. For those Members who have asked, this will of course be done after consultation of the relevant minister with the sector. We, as Members of Parliament, will be able to monitor this. The most important observation is that we support this Chamberwide and that we are Chamberwide to ensure that there is no legal uncertainty for our pharmacies. That is a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u93	Madam President, we will support this text. As far as the time limit that has just been mentioned is concerned, finally no one knows whether a year will be enough. It is clear that a two-year extension of the measure would probably have allowed for maximum certainty. If any concern is to be sustained, a further extension will have to be made, ladies and gentlemen. And if that were to be the case, I invite you to plead that this should not happen at the last minute. Above all, I would like to stress one point. Of course, this has been discussed, but what has happened in recent years prompts me to be cautious. I hope that effective consultation will be organised within the framework of this dossier, but also on the question of the number and distribution of pharmacies in a comprehensive manner. In my view, sausageing the various aspects is not the most correct solution to the sector. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much for making sure that consultation is not limited to words, but is reflected in action. In addition, it will be up to the Minister of Health to assume his responsibilities in this area, since a whole series of questions persist at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u94	Mrs Fonck, as you know, and as has also been said in committee, the law and the necessary implementing decisions are the result of a pact concluded with the sectors. The one-year delay has been discussed with the APB and OPHACO, among others. It goes without saying that further consultations will be held for the necessary implementing decisions. Why one year? The one-year period should normally be sufficient provided that the Constitutional Court maintains its normal timing, with some margin. You also know that there are a number of matters to be dealt with within the framework of the implementing decision in relation to distance selling, i.e. internet sales. We must ensure that this is done properly, quickly and correctly. We will do the same within that one-year period, which is why that one-year period is absolutely justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, without surprise, we will obviously support this bill, as we co-sign it. The idea was to give the minister the time to make enforcement orders that would be useful for the proper implementation of the legislation. This was about the legal certainty of new applications for authorisation. As I also said in the committee – and I know that this is a government priority – we will also need to continue the consultation and the necessary consultation with professional organisations. But on this subject, I am reassured. I am sure that this is at the heart of our government's priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u96	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u97	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1574/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1574/1) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u98	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u99	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 October 2020, I propose that you appoint Mrs Karin Jiroflée as Ambassador WPL (Women Political Leaders). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 October 2020, I propose that you appoint Mrs Karin Jiroflée as a Women Political Leaders Ambassador. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u100	The Ecolo-Groen Group has sent me the candidacy of Mr Nicolas Parent, replacing Mrs Cécile Thibaut, as an effective member of the Benelux Inter-Parliamentary Consultative Council. The Ecolo-Green Group has given me the candidacy of Mr Nicolas Parent to replace Mrs Cécile Thibaut as a permanent member of the Benelux Consultative Parliamentary Council. Since there are no other candidates, there is no right to vote, in accordance with Rule 157(6) of the Rules of Procedure, and I declare the candidate elected as an effective member of the Benelux Parliament. As there are no other applications, in accordance with Article 157 No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u101	By letter of 8 October 2020, the first President of the Council of State informed the Chamber that, at its public hearing on 22 September 2020, the General Assembly of that Council had proceeded, in accordance with Article 70 of the Coordinated Laws on the Council of State, to establish a list of three candidates for a vacant position of State Counsellor in the French linguistic group, following the retirement of Ms. Wanda Vogel. By letter of 8 October 2020, the first President of the Council of State stated that the General Assembly of that Council, meeting at a public meeting on 22 September 2020, in accordance with Article 70 of the coordinated laws of the Council of State, had drawn up a list of three candidates for a vacant post of State Council in the French-speaking framework, as a result of the retirement of Ms Wanda Vogel. The list of candidates was brought to the attention of the House on 16 October 2020. The list of candidates was notified to the Chamber on 16 October 2020. The Council of State, however, did not unanimously present: It was proposed by the Council of State, however, without unanimity: First candidate: Mr Denis Delvaux, first auditor at the Council of State. First candidate: Mr Denis Delvaux, First Hearing Officer at the Council of State. Second candidate: Mr. Roger Wimmer, first auditor at the Council of State. Second candidate: Mr Roger Wimmer, First Auditor at the Council of State. Third candidate: Mr Michael Fryns, Head of the Family and Social Affairs Department of the Ministry of the German-speaking Community. Third candidate: Mr Michael Fryns, Head of the Family and Social Affairs Department at the Ministry of the German-speaking Community. Since the presentation is not unanimous, the House of Representatives may, in accordance with Article 70, § 1, paragraph 8, of the Acts on the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, within a period not exceeding 30 days from the date of receipt of this presentation, either confirm the list submitted by the Council of State or present another list of three names which is formally motivated. Since the nomination is not unanimous, the Chamber of Representatives may, in accordance with Article 70 (1), eighth paragraph, of the laws of the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, either confirm the list proposed by the Council of State or propose another list of three names, which shall be expressly stated, within 30 days of receipt of the communication of that nomination. The possible submission of another list by the Chamber should be based on the nominations received by the Council of State. Any nomination of another list by the Chamber shall be made on the basis of applications received by the Council of State. The time limit for the House to present another list or to confirm the list expires on 15 November 2020. The time limit available to the Chamber to propose a different list or to confirm the list shall expire on 15 November 2020. The following applications were submitted: - Mr Raphaël Born, Auditor at the Council of State - Mr Denis Delvaux, first auditor at the Council of State - Mr Michael Fryns, Head of the Family and Social Affairs Department of the Ministry of the German-speaking Community - Mr Damien Jans, lawyer at the Brussels Bar - Ms Valérie Michiels, first auditor at the Council of State - Mr Marc Oswald, first auditor at the Council of State - Ms Florence Piret, first auditor at the Council of State - Mr Lionel Renders, Auditor at the Council of State - Ms. Géraldine Rosoux, referendum at the Constitutional Court - Ms Véronique Schmitz, Auditor at the Council of State - Mrs Elisabeth Willemart, first auditor at the Council of State - Mr. Roger Wimmer, first auditor at the Council of State. The following applications were submitted: - Mr Raphaël Born, Hearing Officer at the Council of State -Mr Denis Delvaux, First Auditor at the Council of State - Mr Michael Fryns, Head of the Family and Social Affairs Department at the Ministry of the German-speaking Community - Mr Damien Jans, attorney at the Brussels Bar Mrs Valérie Michiels, First Auditor at the Council of State - Mr Marc Oswald, First Auditor at the Council of State - Ms Florence Piret, First Auditor at the Council of State - Mr Lionel Renders, Hearing Officer at the Council of State - Ms Géraldine Rosoux, referer at the Constitutional Court - Ms Véronique Schmitz, Hearing Officer at the Council of State - Mrs Elisabeth Willemart, First Auditor at the Council of State - Mr Roger Wimmer, First Auditor at the Council of State. By letter dated 16 October 2020, Mr Lionel Renders withdrew his application. By letter dated 16 October 2020, Mr Lionel Renders withdrew his candidacy. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 October 2020, I propose that you transmit the presentation of the Council of State and the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 October 2020, I propose that the nomination of the Council of State and the curriculum vitae of candidates be sent to the political groups. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u102	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject and with the exception of proposal No. 1591/1 by Mr. Koen Geens, the author of which requests the postponement of one week, I shall take these considerations into account as acquired. If there is no objection and with the exception of proposal No. Mr Koen None's 1591/1, for which the author is requesting a one-week delay, I consider it adopted. I refer these proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I shall forward these proposals to the relevant committees. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u103	Mrs Fonck, you are asking for the urgency of the proposal for a law to provide special assistance to the Horeca sector in the field of VAT, No 1564/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u104	Madam President, I have heard not only the expressions here on topical issues, but also in the last few days by each other. The government has decided on a series of measures for the Horeca sector at the level of exemption from employer social security contributions, end-of-year premiums, and at the level of bridge law with adaptations. That being said, what we are proposing is to provide additional assistance to this sector, which is still affected by the crisis of the VOCID-19. There is what we can do for now, but we must immediately consider what will be important for tomorrow. We propose a VAT exemption on non-alcoholic beverages. This must be able to come into force as soon as possible to be effective once this sector can be restarted, and we hope so as soon as possible, because that will mean that we will have a marked improvement in health. That, ladies and gentlemen, is why I am submitting this request for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u105	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u106	Madam President, we support the urgency. This proposal can then be directly linked to our proposal on the same subject that will be on the agenda of the Finance Committee next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u107	As you will understand, the request for an emergency is rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u108	Mrs Fonck, you are asking for the urgency of Bill No. 1565/1 to ensure that the measure of 0 % of contributions on 1st employment is sustained.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are still in the VOCID-19 crisis. I still hear the Prime Minister say, in the government statement, how much constructive work should be done with all parties, but it must be noted here that the Vivaldi groups absolutely do not want to take into account the good ideas that come from elsewhere. But perhaps it will be otherwise for the text concerning the sustainability of the 0 % contribution measure on the first job. As you know, this measure must be able to be renewed, given the reality of the economic crisis affecting our SMEs and our self-employed. It must be extended and this decision must be able to intervene quickly, since it ceases its effects on the persons first engaged from 1 January 2021. It is particularly important that this be clarified in terms of extension for the whole sector concerned. I therefore hope that those who say how important it is to support SMEs and independents here will validate the urgency and that we can discuss it quickly in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u110	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u111	Madam President, as with the previous measure, all this must be the subject of serious work. This is reflected in the programme law and in the government agreement. It is not a question of making small jets of flowers in the air from time to time. We're doing a serious project. The MR therefore pronounces itself against urgency now because the programme law is coming, as well as the declarations of the ministers. We're going to do a decent job.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u112	I agree with Mr Piedboeuf. There's no point in cherypicking here. It's in the coalition agreement. It will be carried out and it will be on time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u113	The request for an emergency is rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u114	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Matters on 14 October 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration on 14 October 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 34/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Ortwin Depoortere; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Franky Demon. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 34/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Ortwin Depoostere; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Franky Demon. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u115	Last week, the biggest police union launched a campaign to charge the violence against police forces. That's only right. According to his measurements, there are 25 facts a day where a policeman or a woman is the victim of violence. We have already established this in the Committee on Home Affairs on the basis of hearings with various representatives of police and emergency services. I was very pleased that all the political groups crossed party boundaries when they promised their support to respond to the sighs. My motion for a recommendation does not go beyond that: it repeats the sighs that we heard at the time and which I faced with the Minister last week. With my motion, I would ask the House not only to express its support in words but also in deeds. It concerns the creation of a victim fund to provide immediate compensation to policemen and aid workers who become victims, free legal assistance to any police officer and aid provider who are victims of aggression, zero tolerance to perpetrators in the form of rapid justice and the launching of an awareness campaign to strongly condemn violence against police and emergency services. I therefore expect all the groups to vote against the simple motion and support the motion for a recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u116	Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u117	Yes 87 Yes No. [[47]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u118	This inquiry was developed in the public meeting of the Justice Committee on 14 October 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission of 14 October 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 41/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Katleen Bury; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Khalil Aouasti, Ms. Katja Gabriëls, Mr. Koen Geens and Ms. Nathalie Gilson, Claire Hugon and Laurence Zanchetta. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 41/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Katleen Bury; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Khalil Aouasti, Mrs Katja Gabriels, Mr Koen Geens and Mrs Nathalie Gilson, Claire Hugon and Laurence Zanchetta. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u119	Madam President, I am standing before you today with a very important motion of recommendation because we want to ensure that Halle-Vilvoorde finally becomes a real judicial district. We now have an arrondissement with a parquet in derelict buildings, although the Minister has said that he is going to do something about it. We hope that this new building will finally arrive by 2022. However, we must have a court of our own where we can bring the people of Halle-Vilvoorde to justice. That question is not from us, it is not from flamingantism as we sometimes hear from other parties, it is from common sense. In other judicial districts one works monolingually in Dutch but in Halle-Vilvoorde we see French-speaking perpetrators who let the whole procedure run in Dutch to ask for a language change at the end. A new investigating judge must be appointed and sometimes cases disappear. This whole problem costs a lot of money and time. These people are then brought to justice for judges who do justice in a different way than we do in Halle-Vilvoorde, which makes it easier for them to get rid of them. The King's Attorney of the Halle-Vilvoorde District Court has charged this on several occasions and I have seen on the committee that the Minister of Justice wants to play a leading role in this. So it seems to me to be the logic itself to call on everyone to approve this motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u120	Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u121	Yes 87 Yes No. 49 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u122	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 126 Yes No. [[12]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u123	Madam President, I would just like to point out that two colleagues have had problems connecting, Mrs Song and Mr Calvo. They couldn't connect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u124	We take note of that. These two members had some difficulties in voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u125	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-22-55-plenair-ip065x.u126	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, October 29, 2020 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 29 October 2020 at 2.15 p.m.
