ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic213x.u1	Minister, I have a number of questions about deep-sea mining. You will not be surprised that we are not in favour of all this human activity in international waters. In our view, this activity is not sufficiently regulated and is not adequately controlled by legal frameworks. We are aware that there is a high demand for raw materials and minerals from the bottom of the sea, but several studies also show that increasing demand can be met if we recycle more minerals. Moreover, these minerals can also be extracted by traditional land-based extraction. Belgium plays an important role in the development of deep-sea mining. Since 2013, our country has guaranteed an exploitation contract of an area in the Pacific Ocean. I am still asking questions about the precautionary principle, as I pointed out this morning. We hear that our own law on deep-sea mining would be revised. I would like to see an update on the timing, the preliminary draft and the most important changes. I am also concerned about the policy framework that the federal government will develop for deep-sea mining, especially the precautionary principle. How are we going to see this principle and the polluter pays principle translated into the policy framework that is coming? I have some specific questions about the Pacific project. Our country supports that. I'm not counting myself. I wonder what public participation has been there. Were the stakeholders consulted before this project was supported by Belgium? If we support this as a country and at the same time commit ourselves to the sustainable development objectives, will we ensure that there is no conflict between these two data? It seems to me that they often conflict with each other. There is not so much scientific research on deep-sea ecosystems and biodiversity. We don't understand them enough yet. We don't know yet what impact there will be. The United Kingdom, not the country with the most ecological governance, has already decided not to sponsor or support any more operating permits until there is sufficient scientific evidence of the impact of deep-sea mining on maritime ecosystems. Why don't we wait for that? What is the state of this scientific research? My predecessor in the committee, Anne Dedry, asked a number of questions two years ago about the EIA report that DEME has to draw up for implementation. Is that coming? Are you going to present this to us in Parliament? Recently Greenpeace called for the Thirty by Thirty project to protect 30% of the oceans by 2030. What is Belgium's position on this? What is Belgium's position on the establishment of a moratorium on deep-sea mining with immediate effect and until a network of marine reserves is established? What efforts is the federal government making to boost recycling rates of used but reusable minerals within the framework of the circular economy? The International Seabed Authority (ISA) has called for the Mining Code not to be formalized before there is a new UN convention on the so-called biodiversity of areas beyond national jurisdiction to better protect the oceans. Does Belgium support the call of the other ISA Member States to conclude these negotiations before formalising the Mining Code here?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic213x.u2	Mr President, my questions concern the same problem. We have also tabled a motion for a resolution on deep-sea mining, on which there will be hearings next week. First, Belgium acts as a sponsor state in the exploration contract of Global Sea Mineral Resources (GSR) in the Clarion-Clipperton Zone in the Pacific Ocean. According to international law, this means that Belgium guarantees the actions of GSR in that area. What are Belgium's specific liability and legal risks? You stated earlier in this committee that the Belgian government is not liable, but is also responsible for the deep-sea mining activities of GSR. I think that is vaguely worded. What exactly do you mean by "not liable, but responsible"? What happens if damage to the maritime environment occurs during deep-sea mining? I'm thinking, for example, of a leak. Who's gonna compensate for the damage? GSR or sponsor is Belgium? Secondly, can you clearly and specifically specify Belgium's liability as a sponsor state for GSR? What does Belgium's liability as a sponsor state entail? I am therefore particularly concerned with more specific information on Belgium's responsibility. Mr Minister, I come to another question. In September 2019, you announced in this committee that an evaluation with public consultation of existing deep-sea mining legislation has been carried out. On this basis, a note would be drawn up for the government and possible legislative initiatives could be taken. However, you did not discuss the content and conclusions of this evaluation. I would have liked to know what the conclusions and recommendations of the evaluation and the note mean. What gaps have been identified in existing legislation? What follow-up actions, legislative initiatives or other actions will the government attach to this evaluation and the note? Will the evaluation and the note be made public? My next question concerns the meeting of the International Seabed Authority (ISA), the UN body responsible for this issue. Normally, the next Annual Assembly and Council Meeting of this organization continued next month in Kingston, Jamaica. Due to the COVID-19 crisis, the meetings have now been postponed until October 2020. I have a number of questions about this too. Firstly, I would have liked to know what is on the agenda of these meetings. Is it intended to adopt a legal framework for exploitation there? As you know, only exploration is currently regulated. What is the status of the negotiations on exploitation? NGOs have been complaining for some time about a lack of transparency in the ISA. They ask, on the one hand, the opening up of the Legal and Technical Commission (LTC) and, on the other hand, the establishment of an Environment Committee, with public access to all environmental information. Does Belgium defend this question with the ISA? What views will the Belgian delegation defend during these meetings? How was this position determined? Which actors were involved in the formulation of the Belgian positions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic213x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since these are rather technical questions, I will try to answer them punctually and specifically. First, the national legislation on deep-sea mining dates back to 2013 and was drafted by the then Minister of Economy. Only in recent years, also because of the policy pursued by my cabinet and the questions I have asked myself, has there been a very close cooperation between the FPS Economy and the competent administrations of the Marine Environment Service. In this cooperation, the Marine Environment Service will focus mainly on the environmental aspects associated with the exploration of the seabed and at a later stage on its possible exploitation. Through this cooperation, an evaluation of the Belgian regulations on deep-sea mining was launched by the FPS Economy in September 2019. All relevant stakeholders were also consulted. Following this, the competent public administrations have drawn up a note which has recently been sent to the Foreign Ministers, the Economics and the North Sea, so myself. That note may serve as a basis for the following legislative initiatives concerning the prospecting, exploration and exploitation phase. The note also contains a plan of action and a timeline. The Minister for Economic Affairs has the lead in this. The aim is to develop an integrated and participatory policy framework that strives for very strict environmental standards and environmental standards. The bar must be clearly set so that exploitation can only take place under very strict environmental conditions and with an absolute minimum of environmental disruption. The application of the precautionary principle, first and foremost the avoidance of serious and irreversible damage to the environment, and the polluter pays principle, are some of the guiding principles used in the drafting and revision of national legislation. For me, a scientific basis is always very important. This applies to the whole of the North Sea policy and to this dossier in particular. A gap in current legislation is, for example, the lack of a clear legislative framework for the preparation of the environmental impact assessment and the implementation of a monitoring plan. That will therefore be one of the points of attention in the legislative review. This is also exactly what Belgium is advocating internationally within the ISA: the preparation of regional environmental management plans and the establishment of strict operating regulations, including liability for damage. It is true that Belgium has sponsored the exploration licence of GSR. This means that the procedure has been supported. It's not about financial support. The existing legislation does not stipulate today that this should be preceded by a public consultation. However, we have ensured that GSR or possibly another company will have to apply again for a sponsorship to the Belgian government in order to acquire an operating contract through the internationally established procedures. It is also important to note that our experiences and contacts have taught us that GSR is absolutely committed to providing high environmental guarantees and thus also sets the tone to enforce those environmental standards internationally, in other companies and in other countries, so that they too will respect them. In this way one gets a high-quality level playing field to do so. So we only sponsored one exploration contract. In our opinion, the nature and scale of the current exploration by GSR is not at all contrary to the sustainable development goals, on the contrary, but we have not yet supported an exploitation contract. The balance with the sustainable development goals needs to be further explored there. It is my conviction, however, that coherent and transparent regulation is indeed needed, both at national and international level, in order to assess the correct impact of deep-sea mining. This should be aimed at carrying out scientific research and obtaining more information. It is also essential to involve relevant public administrations and stakeholders in a participatory project. One can only deliver a permit when it has been established that there is sufficient data and information to make the correct assessment to deliver the permits. As long as the perspective exists that we can weigh internationally to enforce a procedure that puts everyone in the same strict environmental framework, we are trying to use our influence at the negotiating table to influence those rules and regulation. A lot of information about the environmental impact assessments is already available on the website of the FPS Economy. The revision of current legislation will also be the subject of a parliamentary discussion, along with a number of other policy and legal aspects. It should also be possible to address the outcome of the environmental impact assessment. We are very active internationally to promote the protection of oceans. We are one of the triggers of the Thirty by Thirty initiative. We are also part of an international alliance with many other countries working together on this. Belgium has already organised several initiatives on this subject. For example, we organised a Blue Leaders Meeting at the UN Climate Summit. During the COP 25 in Madrid in December 2019 we repeated that. There are also different follow-up effects of everything that has to do with the Blue Leaders, to try to bring those countries together to be ambitious in the field of ocean protection. This is also planned for the UN-Ocean Conference, which would normally take place in Lisbon in June 2020, but which was deleted by COOVID-19. By taking that role on us, we can include the fusion of Thirty by Thirty in other processes, which is important. We can come to the negotiating table as a strong player. When drawing up the rules on exploitation, the so-called regulations, we can also give environmental considerations and be active within the BBNJ process, which will also serve as a basis for creating protected areas on the high seas. Coherence with other policy processes obviously requires a continuous balancing exercise, but we have already put this ambition very clearly on the table a number of times. Through scientific studies, we are getting more and more insight into how we can do things. This information can in turn be used again to see how we can achieve protection in the most efficient way. There were a number of concrete questions about ISA members' call to complete the BBNJ before reaching a Mining Code. Various studies, to which you also refer in your question, point to the impact of mining on land, which is well known. The social impact has also been mapped out several times. At the same time, economic demand for certain minerals continues to increase. What the studies show is that we need to look at a global demand for minerals, necessary for, for example, the energy transition. For example, renewable energy requires additional efforts. Alternatives should also be considered in order to meet this demand. Circular economy and recycling are part of the solution, but deep-sea mining is, in any case, also a piste that needs to be explored in that context. We have stated that it is not desirable for us to formalise the Mining Code until the BBNJ negotiations have been concluded. That would not be desirable for us at all. After all, after the BBNJ negotiations there will be a treaty, but there will be no protected areas yet. There is therefore a risk that the designation of protected areas would be delayed if countries tried to defend their deep-sea mining interests. It cannot be ruled out that the pressure on ISA will be very high to start deep-sea mining soon after the conclusion of the BBNJ negotiations, and that the adoption of the Mining Code would be pushed through very quickly. It is just as important for us to have a balanced exercise in this area. Again, a lot of studies are being carried out and that generates additional information. I understand the concerns that exist, but in previous answers in committee I have already pointed out that Belgium is in a strong negotiating position in order to enforce a number of issues. Through the initiatives we have taken in other fora, we have gathered countries around us. We are also very active in the BBNJ process which should lead to that new international binding agreement under the United Nations, a Convention on the Rights of the Sea on Biodiversity beyond national jurisdictions, and, of course, also in adopting a strategy for the Biodiversity Convention. We believe that the successful completion of the BBNJ process is necessary in order to create precisely the protected marine areas in the high seas. I come to Mr Warmoes' question. I have already answered a number of questions on the conclusions, recommendations and shortcomings of the note, to which I referred. The paper makes an assessment of the Belgian regulations on deep-sea mining. This shows a number of things: the need for alignment between national and international regulations, but also the confirmation of important principles such as the precautionary principle and the 'polluter pays' principle. There are, of course, follow-up actions. At the moment, discussions are under way between my staff and those of the Minister for Economic Affairs. We hope to be able to make arrangements as soon as possible in order to communicate the follow-up actions and their timing. At present, the note has been given for examination to various departments in order to identify the conclusions to be drawn. You refer to my ruling that we are not responsible but responsible. It follows from international law. According to international regulations, the sponsor State is responsible for ensuring that the contractor complies with its obligations under the rules: collecting data, drawing up annual reports, taking measures to reduce the environmental impact. In concrete terms, this means that Belgium must not carry out these obligations itself, but must take all necessary and appropriate measures to ensure that GSR complies with its obligations. If that is the case, Belgium is not liable for damage that would occur to the marine environment. We'd only be liable if we didn't. As far as the exploration phase is concerned, our legislation provides for many guarantees to meet these obligations. A review will further refine and elaborate these guarantees. The international meetings of course have their own rhythm. The Assembly, the highest organ within the ISA, decides on the general policy. The Council should then be the executive body within the ISA and more specifically define the policy. Belgium is an observer within the Council, we are in the Assembly. The agenda for October has not yet been distributed. There are a number of points which we believe should be discussed, such as further negotiations on the legal framework for the exploitation and adoption of a method of identifying the new members of the Legal and Technical Commission. The regulations to shape the legal framework are not yet sufficiently advanced to be adopted, even in October, we believe. A precise date to adopt this has therefore not yet been set. Indeed, many NGOs point to a possible lack of transparency in ISA. Belgium has also very often argued for greater transparency within ISA. Last year we called for a new procedure for the election of the members of the Legal and Technical Commission, with more expertise and less emphasis on geographical origin. That discussion is still ongoing. I have already explained at this level how we organise public consultations and participatory processes in Belgium to involve stakeholders if GSR would perform a mining test. We have been able to play our part there. We also advocate that the Legal and Technical Commission should have a mandatory consultation by independent environmental experts when applying for an operating contract, in order to cover this aspect absolutely. The positions will therefore depend on what will eventually be on the agenda. That position is, as always, determined by the formal CoorMulti, led by the FPS Foreign Affairs. Prior to these meetings, consultations are held with the competent public administrations and stakeholders, such as NGOs, scientists and, of course, the business community. This formal CoorMulti defines the formal position of Belgium between the various departments, on the basis of the agenda we would have received. Mr President, I think I have answered a lot of questions in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic213x.u4	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answers. I think it is clear that we are going to learn a great deal from the hearings that are about to take place. I would like to make three points in my reply. You say that you insist on strict environmental standards and minimal impact, but then you must also dare to ask yourself where that balance is. I don't have to explain to you that for me, it's gonna go much further to ecology and to economics for you. For me, a "minimal impact" is not an impact. That's why I'm staying a little hungry for the last question. Research suggests that much can be done by increasing the recycling rate of reusable minerals. Economics versus ecology: I hope that we will hear more about this in the hearings next week. You say that the participatory character was not so important in the past, but it is in the future. We're gonna work with stakeholders. Then I hope that stakeholders will also pay close attention to the balance between ecology and economics. I therefore call on you to watch over that. I will come back to the precautionary principle. I think it means something different to me than it does to you, especially when we're talking about the Mining Code versus BBNJ. For me, it's a case of the chicken or the egg. The precautionary principle says that all areas are protected from deep-sea mining until we know what the harmful effects are. Only then will we identify areas that will be protected. For me, the balance is moving towards ecology, which is why I am in favour of applying the precautionary principle more closely. Let us continue with this at next week's hearing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic213x.u5	Minister, you have indeed answered most of the questions you could. On the one hand, I agree with what my colleague has said about the precautionary principle, which you rightly referred to. On the other hand, you are talking about exploitation. I think we're on the same page as my colleague. In our proposal for a resolution, we ask that, on the basis of the precautionary principle, there should be a moratorium on these activities until the knowledge, which is still scarce, is sufficient. I note that you say the same in your explanation. You say you are in favour of the precautionary principle, but you are making progress in the facts. In this sense, we are of course pleased that Belgium is internationally active around the Blue Leaders Meeting and the protection of the oceans, but we must be careful not to give you a contradictory image. I note that several stakeholders will be involved in the positions that Belgium will take at the ISA meetings. You mentioned scientists, NGOs and companies in particular. That seems to us to be in order and we hope that these three categories will be able to contribute in a balanced way to determining the Belgian position. You also said that the relevant stakeholders were consulted in the screening of the current legislation. Perhaps you could let me know in writing who they were? This also applies to both cases, both to the review of legislation and to the definition of positions. Who exactly are they? After all, there are a lot of NGOs. I had also asked whether the review of the legislation and the note on it would be made public, but you did not reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic213x.u6	The services are still analyzing this in full. There will be a hearing next week, and if steps are taken, the regular procedure will be followed, with parliamentary debates, in all transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic213x.u7	Minister, Codevco wants to install and operate a nearshore aquaculture project in the North Sea, in zone C Westdiep. Zone C is part of the commercial and industrial zones, according to the marine spatial plan 2020-2026. There was already a pilot project there and this is considered by the applicant to be the best zone for several reasons. Zone C overlaps with many other activities. Although the public investigation for the permit runs until next week, there is still great concern on the West Coast, especially at the city of Nieuwpoort. In addition to the local inshore fishing that would risk losing fishing grounds, other users are threatened, such as hobby fishermen, competition sailing, tourist motor boats and military shooting. In addition, there is an official sailing route through the zone. Since the procedure is under way, my question is not so much how the federal government and the administration will assess this. It would also be inexcusable to ask, but my question is how the combination of such commercial projects with various aspects that overlap within the zone is arranged. Is that a matter of consideration, like an environmental permit?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic213x.u8	As Mr Ravyts knows, a marine spatial plan (MRP) has been drawn up. The Marine Environment Service received an application in April for an authorisation to use zone C. The application file is still in the first phase. It will be checked whether it is complete; then the application will be published in the Belgian Official Journal, so that the competition procedure can play for 90 days. In accordance with the agreements we have already made with the governor and the coastal mayors, they are also informed by us. Maybe that's why you're asking. In a subsequent phase, a consultative committee with all the federal and Flemish services responsible for maritime affairs will assess the project on various criteria, such as the added value in the economic and social field, the multiple use of space on this subject, we have drawn up a very clear philosophy in the marine spatial plan, the impact on nature, the possible impact on safety in the sea areas, the possible impact on the sea view and the quality of the plan in the technical and economic field. It also looks at exploitation and maintenance, as well as at the strength of the consortium at technical, economic and social level. There are therefore different criteria in the assessment. On the basis of that advice, I can finally decide whether or not to grant an authorisation for use. The mere granting of a use permit is not yet a guarantee that the project can be carried out immediately. In addition to the use permit, the regulation also provides for a mandatory environmental permit and a Natura 2000 authorisation. It is perfectly possible to bring together these different projects and activities. I explained this last year in this committee. For the preparation of the marine spatial plan for the period 2020-2026, a very extensive journey has been followed, involving all stakeholders and sectors, including pleasure and fishing. The MRP was also subject to public consultation. The latter was a good thing. It is precisely because we have gone through a very participatory process that a waste management plan has also been drawn up and a fisheries impact report has been included in the environmental impact procedure. The issue of multiple use of space shall also be considered when granting or not granting an authorisation for use. In the meantime, the MRP has already been approved twice by the Council of Ministers, so it has gone through a very clear participatory process, also with a lot of discussions and debates in Parliament. I therefore believe that these projects can go hand in hand. I would like to make a few points specifically for the area you are talking about. It covers 4.5 square kilometres located in Natura 2000 area, where soil-moving recreational fishing has been banned since the introduction of the first MRP in 2014. The current MRP also requires that the soil disturbance in these zones should be only 0,1% of the area and the dossier submitted shows that the disturbance will be much smaller. Also in view of the area and its location, the zone will not cause any inconvenience to the yachtsmen. The Belgian North Sea is 3,500 square kilometres, as you know. This is an area of 4.5 square kilometres that will not be accessible and some of which are already being taken up by a number of scientific projects. There is also a positive opinion from DG Shipping on the marine spatial plan. There is therefore no obstacle to shipping routes or access to ports and, in so far as it has not yet been mentioned, the sea view is no obstacle either, because there will hardly be anything to see from the project above water. I am of course aware that Nieuwpoort is not in favour of the project, but it has to be proved on a much wider picture. During this crisis, it has become clear that coastal communities are heavily dependent on tourism for their income. This has not been evident, so if we can add a sustainable economic activity to it, which stimulates the blue economy and innovation in the coastal communities, in which Belgium could play a real leading role, it will also create jobs in the region in difficult times and generate income for coastal communities. In this way they will become less dependent on tourism and be able to take new steps to enable employment and economic development in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic213x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your very solid, substantive answer, which allows me to take a whole step forward and to give the local players a little more information. After all, the principles of multiple use of space and of a participatory process sound very nice, but you can see that local interest groups still give a separate interpretation of these principles. We will continue to follow it.
