ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u1	If colleagues can agree to this, we will deal with the two royal decisions on health, Nos. 20 and 21, together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u2	Mr President, there are many legitimate and important issues in the Royal Decree, such as keeping and ensuring access to the necessary care, ensuring continuity of care, re-evaluating the performance of home nurses, protecting the interests of patients with regard to possible coronataks and the performance of new structures such as switching centres, triage and take-up centres. In general, therefore, it is a good thing, but how is it applied in practice? Madam Secretary, then there is another hot iron that you have known and dragged along for some time. Before the collective testing, some residential and care centres had already tested their care staff on COVID-19. Are these tests now charged to the housing and care centres? They then did so in good faith in order to protect their staff and for their psychological well-being. What happens to that now? What are the directives there, because they are not covered by the Sciensano directives and not by collective testing? Can they still be charged? What if they were charged, what happened in different cases? I have a similar question in connection with Rule 71. That is a good article, because it prohibits the charging of corona extras, so to speak, but what happens to patients who have already paid a corona extra, for example at the dentist? Can they 'claim back' and by what means should they do so? So far, two questions on the practical applicability of matters that have taken place on the ground. Madam Secretary, remote care or teleconsultations are a good thing. That will also be part of the future, but that system still needs to be refined a little bit. Indeed, some performance providers have provided a great deal of performance in the very short term. So it is the future, but we still need to refine the system here and there. In addition to these practical questions, I also have a general consideration, Madam Secretary. These KBs, especially KB No. 20, there are a number of costs involved. I assume that you will see these costs as exogenous for the healthcare budget and that they will therefore not be included in the possible application of the rules on budget overrun for partial budgetary objectives, i.e. there will be no savings due to these additional costs that have been incurred and are rightly reimbursed within the framework of health insurance. The opposite would not be correct. For us, this must be budgetary neutral for the various partial budgetary objectives. I also have two informative questions. Firstly, do you already have an overview, possibly later, of the performance of, for example, the switching centres charged to the RIZIV? Or is it a little short notice for that? My second informative question has already been raised by a number of colleagues. Article 70 now provides for a temporary ban on serological tests, which I believe is justified when it was drafted. Do you have any idea when there will be directives on qualitative serological tests, which I hope will be put on the market? Since there is now a temporary ban, will Article 70 be amended? Finally, Royal Decree No. 21 contains twelve general principles for the continuity of care and develops them for the different sectors and professions. In short, I think that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u3	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the two royal decisions before us, of course, also remove the approval of the PVDA-PTB Group, because the continuity of care is guaranteed. Remote consultation will also remain possible and will be made possible. A legal basis is being developed for the reimbursements to be made possible again. This is really necessary. Many patients cannot or rarely suspend treatment without a serious risk to their physical or mental health. This was also demonstrated by a recent hearing in committee. Mrs Florence Ringlet van Un pass dans l'impasse, Centre de prévention du suicide et d'accompagnement, quoted significant figures at that hearing. Up to 53 % fewer new applications came into the center. The number of psychological consultations had also fallen by 31%. For the most vulnerable groups in society, the interruption of treatment is a major risk. It is therefore a good thing that these royal decrees were also made and that the burden of health insurance can be settled. I'm sure that's for the benefit of the patients. The second important principle laid down are Articles Nos. 15 and 61 of Royal Decree No 20 which provides for the prohibition of the use of supplements. It goes without saying, of course, that no additional supplements should be charged in this exceptional crisis. In addition, the very important principle of tariff security for patients must be maintained. Many first-line care providers have also had to pay for the purchase of protective equipment and mouth masks. They then argued that they would pass this on to the patients. That is now being made impossible. Of course, that's right for the patient. Is there, however, a fair remuneration for the costs incurred by the first-line caregivers, such as general practitioners and dentists? The situation in the hospitals is different. The hospital will cover the purchase costs for protective equipment. If the fees are increased, it is logical that the payments should also be increased, but we do not really have a view on this. This is the same problem, in particular that the transparency of hospital funding is insufficient. The taboo about how much doctors really earn should finally be broken. The KB No. 21 with the twelve principles that have been laid down is a good thing, but we want principle No. However, 10 would like to be clarified. I quote the relevant passage: "Signing by the healthcare professional on behalf of the patient stating that the patient was informed about the contents of the document." Madam Secretary, what kind of documents are we talking about? What guarantees are there that there is no potential loss of sickness benefit? I would also like to refer to the comments made by the Council of State with regard to the two KBs. The Council of State notes in its opinion on page 7 that I quote: 'the present draft royal special powers decision is intended almost as a whole not to lay down substantive rules itself but to grant permissions to the Minister responsible for Social Affairs or to the person empowered to do so. De Gemachtigde van de minister heeft in dat verband toegegeven dat het ontwerp implies that, apart from the suspension of time limits, the majority of the measures implemented are currently within the competence of the minister or his delegate." The Council of State concludes that the KBs do not comply with the conditions, including the Law of 27 March 2020, which empowers the King to exercise special powers, and therefore has no legal basis. They have therefore not further examined the design. We are therefore wondering whether the KB has been adapted to this effect. Could you give me a little more explanation about that? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, the figures provided to us in recent days by Sciensano are encouraging, although we must remain extremely careful. Those affected by VOCID-19 have been cared for by caregivers as optimally as possible. Of course, we must not forget all the other pathologies, which did not stop when the virus arrived in our country. You know my battlehorse, since I have asked you regularly about possible collateral waves and the public health impacts caused by diseases foreign to VOCID-19. All these pathologies continue, moreover, to exist simultaneously. The decrees provide the necessary answers to these concerns. It was necessary to ensure, at all costs, the continuity of care, regardless of – I repeat – pathology. Such a method allowed the organizations concerned to consult as effectively as possible so as to continue to make decisions. The situation before us is indeed unprecedented. Madam Secretary, in light of the reading of the two royal decrees, I have a few questions for you. Have you received any feedback from the public authority regarding the implementation of the decision? Has it been easy from a practical point of view to implement it? Have you received feedback from the various medical professionals on the measures taken by the royal decrees? Can you confirm, after reading the opinion of the Council of State, that the Royal Decree of 27 March has indeed been duly completed? Finally, can you tell us when the Royal Decree on serological tests will enter into force? Which target group will be entitled to reimbursement of those tests?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u5	Madam Minister, we are very pleased that this Royal Decree is now being discussed, because it is very important to ensure continuity of care for the patient. This responds to many questions in the areas of health care providers, health insurance funds, hospitals and RIZIV. The KB arrives rather late, because not everything has run smoothly. We understand that and we hope that it will not cause problems in practice and, if so, that they will be resolved quickly. I have three questions. Firstly, as far as the switching centres are concerned, you refer to the agreements with the Länder at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health. As I understand it, it is up to the Länder themselves to decide whether to open or close a centre and to make arrangements with the owner or the operator. So what is the role of the federal government, apart from funding? How will you coordinate with the Länder on the further progress, once the switching centres are in operation? Secondly, the Royal Decree clearly indicates that molecular tests are currently only reimbursed if they are carried out by an approved laboratory in accordance with the Sciensano guidelines. On the website of the RIZIV there is a list of approved labs. Sciensano's website also lists the necessary molecular diagnostics for COVID-19. However, the list of Sciensano seems more limited to me than the list of RIZIV. What is the correct list of all labs that have been recognized to perform tests that are refunded? Are the general practitioners sufficiently aware of this? Do they know enough which labs are really recognized? This is, of course, essential in the patient chain. The Royal Decree provides for a ban on serological tests. When do you foresee that they will be possible? Does the ban have to do with the lack of practical directives today? When will these directives be ready and who will draw them up? At the end of last week there was a communication that there is a tariff and nomenclature code for general practitioners to take a serological test. What does that mean for the patient and for the ban on reimbursement? My final aspect concerns the Royal Decree No. 21, which is also very important for patients, because the Royal Decree makes it clear what deadlines are due, what deadlines are being extended and what conditions are still valid. Many patients were afraid to go to the hospital in the past few days because they were afraid to get infected with the virus. You and your services have made efforts. At the moment there are infomercials on the television. I've already seen a few, they're clear. What else will you do to reach the patients and encourage them to go to the hospital anyway? After all, delayed care today means, of course, higher costs in the future and also a greater risk to the patient. Finally, how will patients be informed of the provisions relating to the extension of time limits and the relaxation of the conditions laid down in Royal Decree No. 21? How is your relationship with the primary health care sector? Will these care providers proactively contact and inform the patients concerned? How do you see its roll-out on the premises?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u6	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the N-VA Group will of course support the royal decisions. Madam Minister, as we have discussed several times in committee, continuity of care is very important for us. We note that very large catching-up movements are taking place there at the moment. Nevertheless, I have some questions for you. Firstly, in Article 66 you refer to the antigen test. If that test is negative, an PCR test shall be performed automatically. In practice, we see that the antigen test is absolutely not fulfilling what he promised. In terms of sensitivity, he is not at all satisfactory. Is it therefore still worth sticking to that test? What's the advantage of still using the antigen test? Is it not possible to draw up a directive on this subject, just in case of real urgency, when it really has to be done quickly, to take an antigen test and to use the PCR test much more quickly? What is the reasoning behind Article 66? As far as screening and collections are concerned, I read in the RB that the codes for PCR and antigen tests cannot be written out. How will the tests be charged? Is that regulated by the Communities? How will that problem be solved? A number of colleagues have already referred to the issue of the original Rule 70....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We agree that the measure should be extended. Indeed, serological tests can be carried out by the general practitioner, although at the expense of the patient. But we've been in lockdown for two months now and we still haven't determined which serological tests are being validated. The KULeuven has compared several serological tests in several studies and very reliable tests in terms of sensitivity and response. Then how come we still don't have that list today? Couldn't we have been a little more assertive? Couldn't that have been done? The N-VA Group insists that serological tests are rapidly validated and that general practitioners can prescribe them quickly, with reimbursement possible. We are now in exit and are fully preparing for a second wave of contamination. It will then be very important to perform PCR tests and to do contact tracing. If someone tests positive, we'll have to run the serological test afterwards. We are therefore absolutely in favour of making progress in this area. Madam Secretary, people are looking very hard for a medicine. It is generally accepted scientifically that in someone who has experienced an infection, immunity is still better than with a vaccine. So we really need to bet on tests on immunity. Hence our demand to centralise this with the general practitioners and to give them the necessary means to test the patients. The next question concerns the triage centres. How will payment be made? How many will the general practitioners receive? When is the payout expected? Colleagues have already referred to personal protective equipment. Will the payment be made on the basis of a flat-rate payment or should the caregivers present an invoice for this? How is this being dealt with in concrete terms? All colleagues agree on the continuity of care; we really need to make a catch-up, Madam Minister. Today we have been talking about this in the newspaper as far as hospitals are concerned, but also from the primary medicine point of view we are dealing with the issue. Nevertheless, I continue to insist on an action plan for both preventive medicine and mental health care and first and second-line health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u7	Most of it has already been said by colleagues. The Flemish Interest Group will also support the KBs. I would like to have two clarifications on KB No. 20. What exactly is the meaning of Article 6 (1)? The first concerns the admission of new benefits in kind to intensive care, and specifically to the COOVID-19 departments. A little further in the same paragraph, it is stated that this code allows for the additional charging of other benefits in kind. What exactly is this supposed to mean? What exactly are the new benefits in kind? Is it as described in § 3? In § 5 I read that those benefits can only be charged in general hospitals. Why can't you do that in university hospitals?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u8	Mr President, in relation to these two royal decrees, it appears that new codes are being created and that additional benefits will be set up which will result in additional costs. Minister, by whom will these additional costs be borne? If it is through the health care budget, then we will still have to consider savings for the coming years, which is totally inconceivable to us. Or will these costs be financed from the state budget, which the Socialist Party insists on? As far as Order No. 20 is concerned, we find the same wording as in the Royal Decree of 11 April 2020, which allows social consultation to be bypassed. For us, however, social consultation is a fundamental element. In this regard, I would like to reiterate our willingness to systematically involve the partners in the discussions and, at the very least, to be involved with fully adapted prior information. It is essential for us to maintain social dialogue as much as possible, including and above all in the strategy to get out of the crisis. This Royal Order also provides for a protective measure for patients, prohibiting health care providers from charging additional costs related to VOCID protective measures. This is obviously an important element. We had been calling for a long time to ban these supplements. The King now has the opportunity to take action. It would therefore be interesting to know what categories of caregivers were now concerned and what categories might be affected by those measures in the future. It should also be recalled that we want all VOCID fee supplements to be prohibited for all healthcare providers. With regard to Royal Decree No. 21, the latter provides that the King shall fix the date of termination of temporary measures. Article 31 of the said Decree specifies that the measures laid down shall remain in force until a date to be fixed by the King, even if a date of termination is fixed in the Annexes. In other words, the King may set a different date for each measure. Minister, for these amendments, do you intend to make a new order or are you planning to work through social consultation, a solution that we prefer?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u9	Mr De Vuyst, you asked a question about the costs for the first line and the psychologists. In this context, a number of decisions have also been taken today on the Insurance Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u10	For psychological care measures have been taken through convention, through an agreement to extend the scope of the protected population. Measures have also been taken outside these decisions aimed at optimising protection measures for patients. This morning, for example, a decision was adopted at the Insurance Committee on the rehabilitation of patients. A discussion also took place on the protective equipment for the caregivers, announced in Royal Decree No. 20. Maybe we'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u11	Mr De Vuyst, if the costs of medical supplies are paid in hospitals, you said, then the payments could increase. However, it is not easy to imagine, as these purchase costs cannot be passed on.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u12	Allow me to make two comments. First, for the hospitals, a specific operative part has been established, namely by Royal Decree No. 8, which allows to cover additional costs in hospitals. These additional costs are currently collected through a special working group, with the aim of providing a flat-rate allowance for the additional costs for the COOVID-19 treatment in hospitals. This is an implementation of Article 101 of the Hospital Act which provides for funds charged in the general budget through the budget of the financial resources. Secondly, with regard to the protective equipment for healthcare professionals outside hospitals, the Royal Decree No. 20 in an additional financial intervention for the caregivers. So these are two things that will be financed in a different way. For the home nurses there is an additional adjustment of the fee to provide in protective material, both for the patient and for themselves, to prevent them from falling out themselves. Often home nurses were also sent to patients by general practitioners to determine the state of health and to see how they could be helped.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u13	Mr De Vuyst, you refer to an opinion of the Council of State, but that will be an opinion on a previous special power decision, because no opinion has been given here, but Mr De Cock has answered your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u14	You will find that there are for KB's Nos. 20 and 21 are not opinions of the Council of State. However, an opinion of the Council of State was issued on 20 April on the basis of a Royal Decree providing for broad delegations in respect of the Minister, taking into account the technicality of the matter. You have in KB No. 21 also given that it has become a substantial and comprehensive decision. At that time, the Council of State noted that delegations were too broad. We have followed this advice and the decisions now reflect the traditional procedure, albeit without the formal opinions being requested from the consultative bodies in a number of cases. Let me turn to the consultation: all the measures that have been published have been the subject of consultation through videoconferencing with all occupational groups, but also with health insurance funds. Some people have asked who would inform those people. It is clear that KB No. 21 has been established in close consultation with the sickness funds in order to extend time limits, adapt procedures and forms and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u15	It will therefore also be the sickness funds who will have the honour and pleasure of passing that information on to their members. Mr Bertels, the first tests on COVID-19 carried out by the healthcare staff went through the platforms, so there was no cost at all. They were paid for by the platforms. I understand you're talking about the tests that have happened before in private labs. If there was no refund...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u16	No legal basis has been taken for this in the sense that PCR tests were not yet known at that time. We quickly established, together with the sickness funds, that these tests were charged in some hospitals up to EUR 130. We immediately sat with the labs, the health insurance funds and the health care providers. On 16 March, RIZIV sent a letter of conversion based on that consultation to the hospital domes, the caregivers and the labs, stating that no supplements should be charged because we knew that the test strategy would be rolled out. I assume that, after the complaints we have received in this area, no new complaints have been received. At least we have not received a signal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u17	I come to Mr Bertels' question about corona supplements paid by patients at dentists. I have already recommended that patients should inform their health insurance fund about this. After all, there is no basis for such a supplement and that should not be charged. Today, the Insurance Committee confirmed that discussions were ongoing with the respective occupational groups. I said that the patient should not pay it, but also the care providers should not pay for high extra costs. The conversations run in order to give a fair remuneration there. As regards the general comments by Royal Decree No. 20, you ask whether the costs are exogenous and whether they should then be compensated by the partial objectives of the RIZIV. No. I believe that we have said this a number of times. Mrs Tillieux asked for this too. We have always said that this is due to the general resources outside the budgetary objectives. For Mrs. Tillieux, it's the same thing. You say it's unbearable, but it's never been included in the INAMI budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u18	A special budget line of EUR 1 billion has been opened for Social Affairs, not the billion for hospitals covering certain costs. At the moment, these are related to the supervision of the COVID patients. They are intended for additional fees, not for supplements, but for increased fees introduced for intensive care, for switching centres, for triage centres and purchasing centres, for basic home care provision, for follow-up of COVID-19 patients, and for reimbursement of tests. All such measures, including psychological care and cohort care, oxygen use, serological tests, special protective measures and materials for caregivers and for the rehabilitation of patients after COVID-19 in the COVID-19 departments, shall be taken into account. At present, this amounts to EUR 200 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u19	It is also an answer for Mrs Tillieux. There's no extra charge. This is reflected in Article 6, paragraph 4. In Dutch it says "increased allowance additional fee." In the French text, we speak of "supplements d'honneuraires". That's not true, so we have to publish an erratum. It should be possible to adjust this with an erratum. That must be corrected because that was not what was planned. We're going to ask for an erratum. As far as the performance of the switching centres is concerned, it is too early to know the number. This is too recent. Mrs Slegers, you asked what the role of the federal level is when the Länder decide whether one will come and when it will open or close. That is very simple: we finance the caregivers. That's our role in that. As far as serological tests are concerned, a validation of the guidelines has indeed taken place last week, 8 May. On the website of Sciensano this can be found as Serology COVID-19 Rag Second Opinion of 5 May and 8 May at RMG. This morning an agreement was reached on the budget, and we had to wait for the IF report to do so. This agreement has been reached today and we believe that this will be published in the Belgian Official Journal this week. Mrs Dock, it is true that INAMI has conducted a lot of consultations to reach agreement on these measures. All groups were consulted by INAMI via videoconferences and were able to provide the necessary feedback. Mrs Slegers, you also had a question about the lists. You asked which is the correct list, the list of RIZIV or the list of Sciensano. Both lists are correct. They're both licensed labs. However, the list of Sciensano is more limited, because the PCR tests are not possible everywhere. If a lab doesn't have the equipment, it can't do the test either. However, both lists are correct. There was also a question as to whether the practical guidelines were there. The general practitioners can work through their approved labs and do tests on patients in need of a serological test. If they do not fall within the case definition, they may also do the test at the request of the patient. In that case, a maximum of 9,60 euros can be charged. A maximum price has been paid to prevent patients from paying 30, 40 or 50 euros for this. That is a good thing. It is up to the doctor to examine with the patient whether there is indeed an added value to do the serological test. After all, you know that it is never a diagnostic test. The test only serves to determine if someone has antibodies. Even if he or she has antibodies, it does not mean that he or she is immune, nor is it known how long the person concerned will have these antibodies. All that remains to be seen. Because it's a new virus, the medical world isn't good at it yet. I'm sure you will. Has the patient been informed? Yes. We have already made a great deal of efforts in the area of deferred care. I also understand that in hospitals patients are called in advance for a scheduled consultation, to know if the patient will come to the consultation. If the patient says that he will not come or doubt, they will be asked why he or she will not come and explain that there are separate circuits, that they will not come into contact with COVID-19 patients and that all precautions have been taken in hospitals to operate safely. So the scare is still in people's minds. We now see with the general practitioners that the patients are beginning to come back. At the doctor's office it was very quiet for the first few weeks, I might add. However, the patients now also know that it is safe for the general practitioner. People never left the pharmacies. They knew it was safe there. We have every confidence that they will now also investigate and have treatments carried out in hospitals. Mrs Depoorter, there is only a very limited use of antigen tests because one cannot really build on them given the quality of these tests. Indeed, there are a lot of false negative results which still require a PCR test. These false negative results are the weakness of these tests. The advantage is that it is a fast test which makes it easier to know if the result is positive. However, it is no more than that. You asked for a list of the serological tests. The first really validated tests were only two weeks ago. During the initial tests, the results went in all directions, so in fact it was better not to do a test. However, as soon as there were good tests, everything was started for the case definition and validation. As far as the protective equipment is concerned, there are discussions with the RIZIV.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u20	This morning there was a meeting of the Insurance Committee in which both the sickness funds and various health care providers were present. The FPS Public Health, the Chairman of the RMG and the Administrator-General of the FAGG have sent a letter to the caregivers with a view to sitting together and considering how to provide financial assistance. It must, of course, be streamlined for the different professions and take account of their specific characteristics. The working group will be working this week to make a proposal to the Minister who will then be able to take a measure at KB.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u21	Thank you. Mr Van Langenhove, paragraph 5 of Article 6 states that these are also acute hospitals, university hospitals and university hospitals, that is to say university beds. They are therefore included. After all, you asked why only general hospitals were involved. Mrs Tillieux, I have already answered you about the budget. You also have a question about social consultation. I'll let my collaborator answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u22	Madam, I can only repeat that, of course, all the measures, and above all the measures referred to in Royal Decree No 21, and also in Royal Decree No 20, have been taken in close consultation with all the partners concerned. As for Order No. 21, you raised the question of the date that could exceed June 30 – end of the special powers. This flows from the source: of course, the deadline of 30 June is exceeded, since the forms are spread over a few months. We have not extended certain deadlines until 30 June, but we have taken measures before 30 June which, of course, guarantee the rights of patients and insured persons under different conditions. For example, drug applications, oxygen applications, oxygen therapy, etc. Several forms can be found in the appendices to Order No. 21. That's the date. We don't want to extend anything, but we want everyone to retain their rights. Of course, then, conventional measures are reintroduced into law and enforced. We will therefore not need new orders to bring them into force. It is only necessary to stop, at some point, measures of extension or limitation of certain time limits.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u23	That's probably for the post-corona era. Mrs Tillieux, you are asking me what categories are involved in the costs of protective equipment. They are all involved but no costs can be claimed from the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u24	Mr President, Minister, Mr De Cock, I have a specific question about corona tests at the request of, for example, a residential care centre, where a staff member was asked to undergo a test. I understand you're making a distinction between private labs and hospital labs. I also understand the directive of 16 March. But how do I establish the link between Article 69, which prohibits the charging of the patient, and the conditions of application of that compensation laid down in Article 66 (3) for, for example, a healthcare professional who has undergone a test at the request of his home-care centre at the beginning of March? That's not entirely clear to me. If I understand the explanation correctly, there is no refund if this has happened at a private lab and there is refund until the unscheduled amount if this has happened at a hospital lab. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u25	As far as residential care centres are concerned, we need to distinguish between four situations. The first question is: who does the test? As you know, a task force has been set up in the government's lap to set up a platform and a consortium for testing. These tests are the subject of a special agreement and cannot, of course, be charged. There are also the care centres that have carried out tests on their residents following an outbreak or the fear of an outbreak. Those tests were usually carried out by a private lab. You will see that the PCR tests will be refunded until March. The exact date can be found in the KB. Of course, these are the tests that had already been carried out. Furthermore, there will be no reimbursement for the serological tests, except for the staff of the care sector in general, where the care sector must be interpreted as the care providers, but also the persons employed in those centres. I hope this answers your question. Some residential care centers have recourse to hospital labs, others to private labs. The PCR tests shall be refunded. If it's about serological testing, it's another story. It also depends on who analyzed the tests, either through the government's platform or through the recognized labs, as they are called.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u26	It is now clear to me that a number of people will fall out of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u27	Madam Minister, with regard to pharmacists, you said that there is no problem with continuity of care, as people could continue to go to the pharmacy. Is that how the RIZIV sees it? In a publication of APB I read that up to 20 % volumes are less sold in the official. For home and garden remedies there has been a certain switch to online drugs. With regard to the medicines, there would certainly be a decrease. If the RIZIV also looks at this as such, it may be included in a subsequent royal decree for the sake of continuity of care, so that patients continue to take their chronic medication.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u28	Mrs Depoorter, I said that there was a certain fear among patients to go to the hospital or to the general practitioner, but that was not the case with the pharmacists. The patients did not stay away from the pharmacists because they knew that the pharmacists had taken precautions, allowing patients to go to their trusted pharmacy. In doing so, I have not made any statements about patients who may have waited or patients who have been hoarded, as I have not yet seen any figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u29	Mr President, I would like to add that measures have been taken in consultation with patient organisations Flemish Patient Platform and la LUSS for chronic medication, especially medication for patients with severe diseases. We found very quickly that a number of patients stopped taking their medication in the hospital and so on. Alternative formulas have been devised that allow delivery, either through the hospital pharmacy to the pharmacy, or in a different way. These things have been monitored very well from the start of the crisis to find out how patients are unable to take their medication. The necessary contacts have been made, including with pharmacists, to make this possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-25-55-commissie-ic183x.u30	Anyone else want to replicate? In that case, thank you all.
