ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have an exchange of views with the Minister of Defence on corona. Many questions have been put. The proposal is to start with an explanation from the Minister. I asked him to keep them relatively limited and come to the point with his introductory statement. The questioners and other Members will then be given the floor in order to make their additional comments. The intention is to be able to conclude the committee by 11.45 p.m., for the simple reason that the Conference of Presidents starts here at 12 noon. I hope that everyone here is somewhat familiar with the operation of the screens. Basically, you're in the picture throughout the hearing. It's important to give this to everyone. You're acting the way you think you are. Under normal circumstances, your microphone is off. The moment I give you the floor, switch on your microphone. Minister, I would like to give you the floor for your introductory speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u2	Goedemorgen mijnheer de voorzitter, hello to everyone, I will limit myself to an introduction short enough to allow exchange and questions. The VOCID-19 epidemic and the government's actions obviously have implications at the Defence level. CHOD has taken the necessary steps to ensure continuity of operations at home and abroad and to maintain the capacity to provide support to the nation when needed. Given the evolution of the epidemic, defence support has become necessary in certain areas. This support shall be provided in coordination with the competent federal authorities. An overview of this is continuously available on the Defence website. As far as internal measures are concerned, like any Belgian citizen, our military must apply the rules laid down by the SPF Santé publique. Instructions have been sent to all Defence personnel via various channels, such as flash messages. A link on the military intranet allows each member of the Defence to access the necessary information. Another is also available on the Defence website. In Belgium, non-essential activities were postponed until further notice and business continuity plans were distributed to allow continuity of service. All the staff who can work telework must do so. Non-essential personnel unable to work telework remain at home on standby, ready to be deployed if necessary. Military personnel must maintain their physical readiness at home. Training can be done via the computer, for example via onliner courses. The execution of essential tasks and tasks remains assured: the Military Hospital, DOVO, QRA, F7 and OVG, necessary logistical support, preparation of ongoing operations, etc. As far as missions abroad are concerned, they continue. The rotations of detachments shall, as far as possible, be carried out in accordance with the scheme originally provided for. In some cases, at the request of the United Nations, NATO or the European Union, detachments must carry out a period of self-insulation at home before they can leave for the area of engagement. The Defence Staff Operations Division assesses the situation on an ongoing basis. The mission of the frigate Léopold I was cut short as a result of a contaminated soldier on board. I will then come to the support of the Defence Department in the framework of COVID-19. Thanks to its resources and staff, Defence can provide support in various areas in the management of this crisis. As far as medical support is concerned, the Military Hospital has 15 beds for intensive care, 11 of which are ventilated and initially intended for burn patients. There is currently a large turn-over between the high care and medium care departments and the nursing units. In addition to hospitalisation of burn patients, MHKA also captures a large number of outpatient patients who are no longer able to enter the civilian sector. It has provided additional capacity for this purpose. The Military Hospital also contributes two ambulances to the transport of potentially infected patients with COVID-19 in the Brussels Capital and Flemish Brabant regions. In addition, the medical component is also responsible for medicalised transports of critical patients between hospitals. This contributes to the distribution plan for COVID-19 patients. If necessary, Defense can provide 25 ventilators for medical centers. For example, two remirators were already loaned to a hospital in Hasselt. One plane was loaned to the hospital in Malmedy. The medical component is also ready to deliver six shifts of Roll 1 from each doctor, a nurse ten ambulances and two ambulances, among others to support triage points. The commitment shall be determined in accordance with the priorities established in cooperation with the health inspectors of the three Communities. The Military Hospital lends various means to the civilian sector. An extraction device for the VOCID-19 tests was loaned to the Institute of Tropical Medicine in Antwerp, which implies a doubling of the test capacity. A high-frequency ventilation jet was loaned to the Erasmus Hospital in Brussels. It is a device for specific breathing techniques. A specialized military physiotherapist will provide technical support in this area. The Military Hospital Mental Health Centre welcomes health professionals in need and provides support to civilian institutions in the same area. Pre-triage points can also be supported with non-specialised means. At the moment, four soldiers per shift of two are already engaged at the Regional Hospital Centre in Namur. It's a non-medical staff. If necessary, Defence can take the lead in establishing intermediate care capacity and expanding infirmary capacity for FPS Justice prisons. These capacities should be organized within an existing infrastructure with the support of other departments, provided that this hospital infrastructure is made available. There is a permanent participation of Defence in the coordination meetings of the National Crisis Centre with members of the Defence Staff Cabinet, as well as in the medical crisis and surgery cell. For the sake of efficiency, defence support is coordinated at the federal level. The applications from the local authorities must not be sent directly to the Defense Department. They must pass through the NCCN, except for very small or punctual contributions. Through the Command Committee there is also a participation in various coordinations at local level. Within the Defence Operations Centre, a permanent cell was established for the follow-up of everything related to COVID-19. Two liaison officers have been replaced by the FPS Public Health to coordinate efforts on the outpatient care, in addition to two military personnel who determine the priorities of the medical aid applications, in consultation with health inspectors. The logistical aspect is closely monitored, in close coordination with the World Group set up under the leadership of Minister De Backer. Defence is involved in Task Force 3, Personal Protection Equipment, with specialists in public procurement for the purchase of equipment. Defence officer leads Task Force 5, Distribution and Logistics. For the first time in this task force, the NATO Support and Procurement Agency was called upon. This NATO organisation will be responsible for the overall purchase of critical protection equipment for a value of €200 million. The Melsbroek military airport is made available for the reception and storage of cargo flights containing essential equipment such as masks. A central storage area and a coordination office are available in Puisie with staff and handling equipment. They are responsible for the overall management of the logistics aspect, the preparation of transportation and the distribution of medical equipment and individual protective means, such as oral masks, surgical masks, FFP2 and FFP3 masks, aprons, protective goggles, gloves, etc. Various local distribution sites at the provincial level are available, such as the military districts at Sainte-Croix and Gavere or the military commands of the province of Liège and Mons. Defence means of transportation are also used. On 1 April, the Centre de compétence du Matériel Roulant et de l'Armement in Rocourt distributed some 1,700 litres of ethanol to 13 hospitals in the province of Liège. This unit complies with the necessary storage regulations. Ethanol is used to completely disinfect equipment such as ambulances carrying patients with VOCID-19. Always in Liège, the Defense has made available mattresses, blankets and douch containers for homeless people. In Arlon, 35 stretchers are available for the Hydrion shelter. In the military district of Tournai, the sports hall is available for transmigrants. In addition, small-scale initiatives provide basic goods such as cushions, blankets, covers, etc. to neighbouring hospitals. At the request of Foreign Affairs, Defence also supports the repatriation of stranded compatriots if civilian resources are not available or insufficient. A first flight was carried out to the Canary Islands, Spain, on 22 March 2020 and a second flight from Bamako, Mali, on 27 March 2020. On April 4, 2020 an additional flight was organised from Kigali and Bujumbura. At present there are still flights scheduled from Niger and Kinshasa. Defence is also ready to provide additional support at the request of the federal authorities. These include, for example, support for maintaining public order, air transport in case of repatriation of Belgians from abroad and logistical support for intermediate care capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u3	Thank you for your statement. She was short but contained a lot of information, as was agreed in advance. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to open the round of questions. We use the order in which the questions are submitted. I would also like to ask the questioners who have tabled several questions to deal with their questions in one block. I would also ask everyone to keep his speech as forceful and limited as possible, out of solidarity with those Members who also wish to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your very brief explanation of the state of play and the successive measures taken by the Defence Department. You spoke mainly about helping the nation, if we may call it that, and assistance to the medical sector, which is, of course, very much appreciated in these circumstances. That's what I wanted to give you at the beginning of our meeting. I would also like to thank you for the periodic review that you have provided to Members. We've appreciated that, too. I have a total of nine questions that I will ask in one go. I would also like to see every question answered. My first question concerns measures against the spread of the corona virus in the Defense Department itself. Has there been any evidence of contagion in the Defense Department, both in the military and in civilian personnel? We have already received figures, but I would also like to have an overall overview of the exact number of people, the location where they are employed and the procedures followed. For that last part, I assume they're consistent with federal guidelines. The measures for staff, such as working as far as possible from home, have just been explained in the general discussion. My second question is more specific and concerns Defender Europe 2020. We've had our visit canceled. This is, of course, a pity, because it is a large-scale exercise, the biggest exercise for 25 years, involving the deployment of American troops in Europe. As a NATO partner, we are involved in this exercise as host nation support. When we could do that physically, we were given an explanation in committee and we learned that the exercise would continue, if possible, despite the already increasing threat and spread of the corona virus, with the associated health risks for the military and those involved. In the meantime, a number of measures were taken in several countries of Europe to limit the mandate and adjustments were made. The Deutsche Bundeswehr limited its share of the exercise. The movement of troops through the Netherlands is over. Poland, a very important partner in the Defender exercise, has decided to close its borders for all foreigners. America has also made adjustments. Firstly, what is the current state of play for the Defender Europe exercise in general? To what extent is the roll-out of the exercise adjusted as far as we are concerned? What adjustments has the American army made? I would also like to have an overview of the adjustments at European level. Secondly, what do those adjustments in other countries mean specifically for us as host nation support and supplier? What is our government's position on the exercise, which is still taking place despite the threat of the corona virus? How is communication done? My third question has already been largely answered. I'll be brief. It's about manning and equiping the shift care centers by the Defense Department. You have discussed this extensively enough, and we have been able to read enough information on this in the periodic reports. In the meantime, the National Security Council has asked for assistance. Can you briefly describe what tasks Defence currently has in the context of assistance or assistance to the Nation? I also have an important follow-up question, which is now also on the agenda of the Committee on the Interior. I would like to ask you more specifically what assistance Defence can provide for border controls. The police are currently in charge of that task and the maintenance of order. The protection of the borders of this country is actually one of the core tasks of defence. Join Captain Gillis, who announced in the media that Defense is standing by to relieve the police force's burden, if necessary. Will the government ask for the nation's support to Defense? Will the Defense Government therefore effectively engage in border surveillance? If so, how many soldiers will be deployed and at what locations? Have you discussed this with your colleague, the Minister of the Interior? I suppose so. Then what was his reaction to that? Is that what he's going to do? Or did he ask you to support border control, as it is very essential at the moment? I also have a few questions about the military on foreign mission. Through the media we have received reports that 450 Belgian soldiers are obliged to stay longer on mission abroad as a result of the corona crisis. First of all, can you give an overview per foreign mission of how many soldiers we're talking about? You may also do so in writing, if that is not possible at the moment. Secondly, have any contaminations been detected by military or accompanying personnel on foreign mission? If so, where? Thirdly, there would also be criticism of the communication of Defence to military members of their families regarding the situation, the guidelines and the planning of their mission. A number of people report in the media that there would be some kind of limp there. Do you recognise that communication with the family or other contacts of military personnel in Belgium can be improved? The following point has also been raised in the media. In particular, it concerns the shortage of mouth masks and the fact that Belgium had a strategic stock of millions of mouth masks destroyed in the past year. I understand that that was not a decision of yours, but I assume that you, as Minister of Defence, were involved in some way. The masks concerned would have been purchased as a result of the Mexican flu in 2009 and had apparently expired in the meantime. Have you been in contact with your colleague from People's Health about this? Minister De Block mentioned that Defense was responsible for the poor storage of the mouth masks. I would like to ask you a few questions about this, first of all in order to clarify and eliminate any untruths. In which barracks was the stock of mouth masks purchased in 2009 stored? When was the order given between now and 2009 to have that strategic stock destroyed and by whom? In what way was the DOD involved? How many masks was it all about? What reason was given for that? There are rumors that it was a lack of space, while on the other hand it is said that it happened because the masks fell and were therefore no longer usable. It also mentions the need to make room for the additional reception of asylum seekers as soon as possible. Can you confirm that it was effectively communicated by the FPS Public Health, the Red Cross or other partners involved in this? I would also like to see the accusation that the DOD had provided poor storage capacity corrected, if that is not true. In other words, did the asking parties know it was about unheated pilots when DOD rented out the storage space? Do you not think that the strategic stock could have been better stocked so that, in times of a health crisis, as we are experiencing today, and not one of the least, we could have provided mouth masks for aid workers and law enforcement, such as police, ambulances and certainly the military themselves? That may be a question of your personal opinion, but I am happy to ask it. If your answer shows that there is no blame for the defence in this matter, will you address your fellow Minister De Block and point out to her that she is spreading fake news in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u5	I suggest that you close up, Mrs Ponthier.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u6	With regard to my follow-up question on the inclusion of defence in border controls, I would like to know what the answer was from your colleague in the Interior. Did you consult on this? Are the military available in Operation Vigilant Guardian or OVG also deployed? Do they now have the material that should be made available to them in order to prevent the spread of the virus? I come to my final question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u7	I really want to ask you to conclude, Mrs Ponthier. You've been talking for 15 minutes, and we only have an hour and a half.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u8	Mr President, I had tabled nine questions. I would therefore like to see it dealt with, otherwise I do not see the point of this exchange of views. Otherwise, you should have planned a general exchange of views and the questions at another time. So I would like an answer to all my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u9	Please continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u10	My final question is about the admission contest for the KMS. There appears to have been an adjustment to the registration periods for the admission contest to the KMS for officers. Apparently, that procedure has been terminated without prior communication and the arrangements have changed during the current procedure. On 2 April it was reported that the selection days, which were normally organised until the end of April, were cancelled. However, experience has shown that most tenders come only at the end of the period. A number of people are no longer able to register. That's counterproductive for the recruitment of officers. Mr Minister, have you checked whether there are any alternatives for this procedure to continue? Other governments are currently doing the same. Thank you for your kindness, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u11	Mr. Speaker, I will take the time to thank the House staff for allowing us this videoconference. I would also like to thank the minister for his introduction, which answered most of our questions. The question I sent you on March 18 is a little out of date because we have since sent a letter to the minister who replied by mail. Our missive included all the actions that were described during your presentation. Minister, thank you. I still have a question. During the previous legislature, we bought a field hospital, which should be delivered in September and could not be operational before. Would it be possible to advance this deadline?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u12	Mr President, like my colleague, I would like to thank the minister and his cabinet, who did respond very actively and very quickly to our letter. They have already provided many additional answers to the presentation that the Minister has just made in the introduction. However, I still have a few questions that have been put on the agenda of this meeting. Do I put them all down now or as the agenda goes?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u13	I suggest that within your speaking time you deal with the whole of your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u14	Mr President, Minister, my first question concerns cases of VOCID-19 in the military barracks in Spa and Elsenborn. According to my information of 18 March 2020, the two men have been quarantined, but the risk of contamination is not ruled out. Minister, do you confirm this information? What measures are being taken to combat the virus in the barracks concerned and the staff assigned to them? If one of them is reached, what would be the consequences for his team? What provisions are in place to protect colleagues?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u15	Mr. Chair, Minister, I will adapt my question, as you have been proactively responding to a whole series of questions that were tabled before, and I thank you for that, because it saves us time. I wanted to review with you the missions of aid to the nation and remind you that they are very important for the Socialist Group, as well as all the missions carried out by the Medical Component of the army. Unfortunately, Minister, you have inherited from your predecessor N-VA, Mr. Vandeput, a rather deplorable management of aid to the nation, since in the 2030 Strategic Vision, aid to the nation is almost staggered. It is no longer a priority, one of the central axes, one of the major pillars of defence policy. But we will come back to this aid to the nation in a conceptual way. We have also tabled a resolution to this effect, which will be dealt with by Parliament in the near future. The crisis of the coronavirus shows the extent to which all the expertise and human and material capabilities are relevant to operate the different levers of aid to the nation. With your reply, Mr Minister, we can welcome the fact that you acted much faster than your predecessor, Mr Vandeput, particularly with regard to aid for the poorest and the refugees, when it was sometimes necessary to wait weeks during the previous crisis under Minister Vandeput. Without going back to what you have already explained, could you, minister, tell us what you could do again in the short and medium terms? I can see a few leads. What European synergy did you want to put in place at the level of aid to the nation? What role can Defence play in the medium to long term in assisting the nation? I am thinking, for example, of the ability of genius to decontaminate a whole series of spaces. I am thinking of the regional medical centres that could be used for all the screening tests that will have to be carried out. I am also thinking of military psychologists and all those who are used to crises and war phenomena. We're going to have to reassure our people, help them psychosocially. These are less common tasks for the army, but that its Medical Component can accomplish in order to be able to help our people who are in great need of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u16	Minister, thank you very much for all the information you have given us. I wanted to go back to the steps your department has taken to protect its personnel, whether civilian or military, from the VOCID-19 pandemic. Defence performs essential functions within the Belgian State and the question of the organisation of work and the protection of workers during this crisis is fundamental. When teleworking is not possible, non-essential functions must be stopped. However, for Defence, a whole series of missions must continue, such as the early warning reactions of our F-16s, the Military Hospital, etc. Unfortunately, this type of function does not allow for telework, which exposes military personnel to VOCID-19. In view of this particular situation, I would like to ask you what health measures are being taken for the military and their civilian colleagues who are engaged in essential missions in order to reduce the risk of contamination. In addition to social distancing, do they all have the appropriate equipment to reduce their potential exposure to the virus? What about the measures? Do they differ depending on where the military is in Belgium or abroad? Several Belgian soldiers, notably in the context of our army's collaboration with the Netherlands, are based in Den Helder. However, the Netherlands has not taken the same containment measures as Belgium to curb the spread of the epidemic. What steps have been taken to bring them back to Belgium as soon as possible? Have you had any exchanges with your Dutch counterparts in this context, in order to prepare for the post-crisis period?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u17	Mr President, Minister, I tabled three questions, but a number of issues have already been raised. My first question concerns tasks. Minister, you have already given an overview. What additional tasks are possible if certain safety equipment is available? Do you see any possibilities there? Are additional questions being asked today to our army if they are possible? I would also like to respond for a moment to the question put by Mr van het Vlaams Belang. Border checks aren't one of them for us. I live in a border town myself. I see today how police and customs, because customs can help in the meantime, draw their plan. In fact, this problem has been solved by closing down a number of border roads. Moreover, the situation has also been normalized. Meanwhile, the situation is similar in Belgium as in the Netherlands. The awareness among the Dutch has grown. So there's really no pressure on borders today. As long as there's no question from the police, I don't see the point. Perhaps the Flemish interest likes soldiers on the streets, but I can tell you that the queue at the container park here yesterday was longer than the one at the border. My second question concerns the deployment of our military abroad during the corona crisis. We have already received information on this too. The important thing is to know how they're doing. How is their family kept informed? That is, of course, also very important in these times. What is the condition of the military aboard the frigate Leopold I? My last question has not yet been addressed. For some, the world's going crazy like nothing's going on. That's the feeling I got when I heard the boss of NATO. On 19 March he gave a presentation on the annual report in Brussels. I can still understand that he was not fully with the situation at the time. However, on 2 April, he again said the same thing as on 19 March, namely that this corona crisis should not ensure that the commitments and promises relating to that 2% of GDP to be spent on defence will not be met. There are other targets today. We are fighting a very different battle today. These statements at this time bear witness to a certain world weirdness. There will be a world after corona and we will all have to look together at what that world will look like. Minister, I find it a little strange to make such statements today. What's your vision on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u18	Thank you very much, Minister, for your explanation. I have a number of questions and additional comments. Firstly, the acute situation in residential care centres is a cause for concern at the moment. You are also mayor, Mr Goffin, and you know that the situation in the residential care centres is extremely difficult at the moment. In Flanders that is the issue. At the moment there is an additional inter-ministerial conference on the problem of rest homes. There are a lot of military personnel who have basic medical training. Can the help to the nation be extended to everything related to the rest homes, the care centers, the service flats? Our municipality itself has been very badly affected. We already have more than 10 dead in one of our rest homes. In the others things are also very bad. So my first question is can soldiers help in our residential care centers? Can the aid to the nation be extended to help the rest homes, where the situation is now particularly difficult and problematic? Secondly, have I understood correctly that you said that there are still flights scheduled for repatriation from Niger and from Kinshasa? When are they scheduled? How many people are we talking about? Is that organized yet? I'm getting a lot of e-mails, and I'm sure you'll get more from fellow countrymen stuck abroad. I know, among other things, of a large group who's stuck in New Zealand. Can't that be solved? Can't these people be repatriated somehow, if necessary with the help of the Defense Department? Other groups are stuck in Latin America, and so on. You focus on Niger and Kinshasa, but there are also additional questions from elsewhere in the world. What is being done about it? You said that there is a reception centre for the transmigrants in Tournai, if I understand correctly. What do you mean by that? Exactly what is provided for these transmigrants? Could you please explain that, because I have no knowledge of that. Is that something new? That's how I get to the mouth masks on the Belgrade site. I think it is of little intellectual honesty that certain politicians and public services are trying to push the responsibility of not having a strategic stock of mouth masks into the shoes of Defense. I've been annoyed by that. I have received countless reactions, no doubt our colleagues, and you probably much more, from soldiers who are not served by them. That seems to me right, Minister. I've seen a reaction from the Defense Department that was pretty heavy. Personally, I think it's kind of low-by-the-ground. Non-Defense decides on replacing the strategic stock: this is done by Health and no one else. That's where the responsibility lies. When I was Secretary of State, we had a serious discussion with the Home Office about replacing the iodine pills intended for a nuclear disaster. That costs EUR 8 million, which is a very expensive investment, but the pills had fallen. We went through with it. In connection with Belgrade, what was the responsibility of Defense and what of Health? Is it true that the DOD wasn't responsible and only responsible for the stockage, without a doubt? Then suddenly there was a rumor that the masks had to disappear because asylum seekers had to replace them. I have looked at how that has happened, and of course that has happened quite differently. I was then the competent Secretary of State and never had any knowledge of the fact that mouth masks would have been stored there. Minister, I would like a clear and clear answer to the question whether the Defence Department destroyed the masks because asylum seekers suddenly arrived in Belgrade. Or does one have nothing to do with the other? I would like a clear answer to that, because I am being attacked by, among other things, the Flemish Interest. I don't like it. I am told that the masks were destroyed by me, because I have put asylum seekers there. That's intellectually very unfair and low-by-ground, I'm not gonna stand for that. I'd like a clear answer. I had some questions about foreign missions. The relevant committee could perhaps take place one of the next few weeks, Mrs Ponthier. You can call them together as president and I assume it should be possible to meet with the minister online from 8:00 to 9:00 in the morning. So far for the foreign missions. I had another point. Apparently, there will be an EU military task force on corona. For me, that's double-up. There is the Euro Atlantic Disaster Response Corporation Team that was founded by NATO. As we see more: if NATO has something, the EU also wants something. It's killing me. As you know, I have my opinion on this, and I do not see the added value of it. Josep Borrell launched that yesterday. What was Belgium's position? What position did you take yesterday at the meeting? Do we want such an EU group? Are we going to continue with the NATO story? Or do we just do everything, the same thing in parallel? Then what's the point? So much for my questions. Minister, I hope for clear answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u19	Mr President, Minister, I would like to begin by paying tribute to the defence staff, who are currently being involved in the second line, but are still very active in the fight against the spread of the coronavirus. In your introduction, you listed what the Defense Department is doing. It's help to the nation. I would like to say in general terms that some colleagues and some parties in the past have been smiling about this aid to the nation, as if it were not a full-fledged task of defence. The green family has always resisted that imagery and I think it is quite clear today that this criticism is totally misplaced. Minister, I have a number of questions. First of all, you have given an overview of the role of Defense today. Do you have any idea of a possible extension of the role of Defense in the next few days and weeks? Are there any additional tasks that the DOD will take on? Secondly, I personally believe that the participation of Defence in the fight against the corona virus is very useful for the image of Defence in our society. I think it's a positive promotion of what Defense can mean. Only I found that at the beginning of the outbreak of the corona virus in our country, that role of Defense remained somewhat underexplored. There was hardly any communication. I don't know if there was a problem with other departments or if the DOD couldn't communicate. In the meantime, that has been adjusted. You know that you have the support of our group to highlight the role of defence very clearly and assertively. I'd be happy to get some explanation from you on that. Thirdly, I asked you a question about the strategic stocks in our country. I know that DOD used to have the historic assignment to keep track of the strategic stocks. That is no longer the case today. Do you agree with us that it may be useful to consider whether this task can be restarted in the future? Finally, the Medical Component of Defense plays an important role today. Also the Military Hospital, because burn patients from all over the country are now being taken to Neder-over-Heembeek, in order to relieve other hospitals. That's very useful. In the past there were also voices to abolish, sell or privatise the Military Hospital. I hope that discussion is really over now. We believe that the role of the military hospital should be anchored, confirmed and, if necessary, extended. What is your position on this? Minister, I have an additional question, which was also raised by Mr Francken, about the reception initiative of migrants in Tournai. Can you give us a more detailed explanation? Can you also explain more about Fedasil's search for additional infrastructure for asylum seekers? We all know that the DOD has additional infrastructure. I am thinking of empty sheds, certain places in barracks that can be used for asylum seekers. That's already being used today, by the way. Are you prepared to consider what infrastructure could still be used to cope with the shortage of reception facilities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u20	Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank all the House workers who have put everything in place for this meeting to be possible and to express my deep respect for the Defence personnel who are dedicated to their work around the world. With regard first of all to the Defender 2020 project, NATO announced on 13 March that this mission would be adapted due to the Coronavirus epidemic. As a result, the number of military exercises and logistical trips has been reduced. However, the program was not officially discontinued. As I experienced a small technical problem at the beginning of the meeting, I may not have heard the minister answer some of my questions. So, please excuse me if I ask for them that are no longer useful. To our surprise, we find that some major exercises, including two on the Greek and Danish coasts, continue as if nothing were happening. SHAPE announced that shooting exercises, accompanied by armoured vehicles, could also take place. The planned deployment of the NATO Tactical Group to Poland and the Baltic States is simply continuing. Belgian soldiers will participate. At the same time, NATO continues to demand its budget plan. Indeed, when the report was presented on 19 March, Mr Stoltenberg stressed that the global epidemic of coronavirus was not a reason to reduce NATO's investment. Mr Minister, do you not think that Belgium should put an end to its NATO military operations and that it should instead use all the means available to Defence to combat the pandemic? Will our country return to their homes the soldiers, sailors and other personnel who are currently tight against each other, in order to ensure their health and safety? Finally, are we going to stop following NATO's budgetary requirements, given the importance of investing in other sectors, given the current health crisis? My group also wanted to ask you about soldiers' salaries. Some of them, who were on missions abroad, were sent home. This is the case for the NATO Marine Fuses on mission to the Netherlands for training. They must now pursue her from a distance. This leads to a situation that is not very clear. The Marine Fuses are in training abroad but they follow it remotely from Belgium. A soldier whose status is to be on mission abroad is paid with a supplement. What are the consequences on the wages of these people? Are they still considered to be on mission abroad or will they lose part of their salary? How many soldiers are in this situation? As far as missions abroad are concerned, 450 Belgian soldiers must remain on mission abroad for another month. They were deployed in Niger, Lithuania, Afghanistan and the Atlantic Ocean, among others. Their families are currently complaining of a lack of official communication with them. The situation of the soldiers on board the frigate Léopold I is a matter of concern. The Defence itself admitted that there were not enough places on the ship to apply social distancing. If it is not possible to apply social distancing measures on the frigate, don't you think it better to send all these people back and track them down before they land? Are other barracks or ships where Belgian soldiers are located affected by the impossibility of applying social distancing? If so, should we not detect them and return them to another country? Finally, a final question about the military's contribution to our territory at this time. You explained, in your introduction, all the missions of the army to help in this health crisis. How many military personnel are involved? In terms of security measures, do they have adequate protective equipment? Is there any additional hygiene training given to them in relation to VOCID-19? On what level can we still involve the army to speed up the fight against VOCID-19, all in consultation with the trade union organizations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u21	Mr President, I will be brief in order to allow everyone to ask questions and to have time to listen to the answers. Mr Minister, thank you for your introductory statement, which I think has already clarified a lot of things about the questions that we are asking ourselves. I could go back to storage, to helping the nation, but I know you're going to answer it, because my colleagues have already asked the question. I'd like to say a word about the attractiveness of Defence. This is a subject that I am very interested in, also in the work on the resolution that we are debating in our committee. With regard to current recruitments, it is obviously essential to adapt to current circumstances. I would also like to know whether our military compatriots who are in contact with the outside world are sufficiently equipped, if they have all the equipment they need. Minister, what about the exercises that were planned during the containment period. How are we going to reorganize at this level? Did any other manoeuvres have to be interrupted? Finally, what consequences will the pandemic have for the European Defender 2020 exercise?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u22	According to the list, I am the next speaker, but I shall first address the other speakers and put my questions to the conclusion. I shall now give the floor to Mr Bombled, who is the last speaker with questions. Members who wish to speak after Mr Bombled can now indicate this via the Raise Hand module. Mr Bombled, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u23	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u24	Mr Bombled, we can hardly hear you. Is it possible to do something about your sound? We can't hear anything... please try again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u25	Minister, the fight against the VOCID-19 pandemic obliges our country to mobilize all the relief services at its disposal. Doctors, nurses, paramedics and caregivers of all kinds are recognized by the population and praised for their sacrifices. The involvement of the defence in this crisis is unknown to the general public; nevertheless, it is present. Our allies have deployed significant means to that end. In Italy, doctors and military nurses assist civilian hospitals, and two field military hospitals have been built in Piacenza and Crema. In Spain, 2,622 military personnel were deployed to 59 cities for disinfection missions. In the United Kingdom, the army is mobilized to bring equipment, including masks, to health workers. Finally, the United States deployed two Mercy and USNS Comfort Hospital Vessels in Los Angeles and New York to relieve congestion in saturated hospital structures. Minister, my questions are as follows. Can you tell us what defence missions are in support of our country's hospitals? Is it possible for the defence to distribute medical equipment where it is in short supply? What additional measures could the defence take if the situation so requires? Once the pandemic has been controlled, disinfection operations at stations, airports and other public buildings will be required to minimize the return of the virus. Is the defence ready to play this role? Finally, the defence ordered a new field hospital, what is the status of this case? Are delays possible? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u26	I did not understand everything, but thank you for your speech and welcome you to the Committee on Defence. I have also seen fingers in the air from Mr Prévot and Mrs Verhaert. I shall first give the floor to Mr Prévot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u27	Mr. Minister, my first question will be with Mr. Franken's question about the assistance that the Defence Medical Component would be able to provide in nursing homes and nursing homes. Indeed, it is now where the outbreaks of infection are most critical, and the fears on the ground for the mayors who are confronted with them are obvious. I had the opportunity, via the French-language public channel, to ask myself about this subject. I read your answer yesterday, but it leaves me a little on my hunger when you mention having medical resources, nurses. And you said that if this had not been done so far, it was because no one had asked you yet at the federal level. I'm surprised, because the federal government is you too. When a commander of a fire station, from his office, sees a fire burning two kilometres away, he cannot say that he does not send his firefighters because he has not yet received a phone call! He must be proactive. I would have appreciated if that same proactivity could have been implemented. I would therefore like you to clarify the ability of the Defence Medical Component to provide support to nursing homes where the situation is critical and where staff are confronted with an exploding absenteeism. This is the urgency of the terrain today. Then I heard a lot of questions about the repatriations of Belgian compatriots abroad. I'm not going to add a diaper. On the other hand, I am surprised to have received a testimony from people in Morocco who have been wanting to be repatriated to Belgium for weeks. They would have been told that they were not a priority. This message was allegedly delivered to them by the embassy, on the grounds that these compatriots are binationals. As a result, they are not given priority. Is this information true? I do not see why being a binational would make it less important to consider repatriations which have been waiting for weeks, with difficulties on the ground, people who are sometimes informed a few hours before a possible departure of the possibility that they may enter a plane, even though they sometimes have several hundred kilometres to travel in order to be able to reach the airport. Speaking of repatriations, I would like to ask you a perhaps surprising question, because it is on the border between your hats as Minister of Defence and Foreign Affairs. This is about the repatriation of the remains. Minister Geens is working with the Belgian Muslim Executive to see how to manage fast breaks and the Ramadan period for the coming weeks. I am also being questioned by representatives of the Muslim community, who explain their habit of repatriating the remains of their deceased to bury them in their country of origin. As the airspace is closed, we are also faced, on the ground, with the impossibility of keeping these remains, even for health and logistical reasons, in morgues at the municipal level. On the Defence side, is there an ability to lend a hand to enable, if appropriate, the storage of remains in appropriate locations? Is there, as I have read, some countries that charter aircraft at their own expense to allow the repatriation of the remains concerned? Or should we simply have clarity in the message of telling these people of Muslim faith that they must mourn these customs and customs and then bury their deceased on Belgian soil, a necessity that is law-abiding in the light of the context we know? All the answers can be good, what is needed is clarity in the message that we need to be able to spread. Last, I find it inappropriate to have the Defence bear any responsibility for the destruction of the mask stock. It is not her who took this initiative, it is the responsibility of Public Health. We shouldn't have a bad trial at the Defence on occasion. To sum up: what of the medical component's help in nursing homes where there is an urgent need for staff defections? What about the binationals? What about repatriations of dead persons to certain countries? These are the most important questions I wanted to share.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u28	I now give the floor to Mr Flahaut. I didn't notice him just now because he's in this committee room right behind me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u29	Mr. Speaker, I thank the services of the House, the minister and the military personnel. Before I address my questions, I would like to point out that today, it has been 26 years since our military died in Rwanda. We're talking a lot about coronavirus, but not much about this sacrifice. The exhaustive list answers many questions and should put an end to some rumours. It also demonstrates the full involvement of Defence from the beginning of the crisis, often discreet involvement and perhaps not sufficiently emphasized. It also guarantees a willingness to act by ensuring consistency. At such times, coherence is important and it would be inappropriate for Defence to intervene on its own initiative and without consultation with other departments. There is no doubt that what was stated today by the minister demonstrates that Defence is a public service that is often criticized but much more useful than is believed. Defence will deserve strong support following the recent demonstration that it can be supportive, close and useful to civil society. I voluntarily use the terms "civil society" and not "nation" because action must also be marked by international solidarity. I think there is a great deal of availability for additional requests to be made, especially by nursing and nursing homes. The Walloon Minister Mrs Morreale will ask for the Defence to intervene in support of nursing homes and I think the Flemish government will do the same because, in De Morgen this morning, we can say that the situation is also very difficult. Yesterday's Foreign Affairs Committee talked a lot about the problem of binationals. At the turn of the discussion, it was questioned whether it was not possible to reactivate some very strong partnerships, particularly with Morocco, to be available to offer logistical assistance or expertise to some countries facing this crisis. This solidarity must also be able to be expressed within the countries of Europe. We have a great expertise that allows us to accompany, to bring logistics. And I come to this last thought, which some of our colleagues have already mentioned: this surrealist statement by the Secretary-General of NATO with the need to respect the 2% of GDP is totally incomprehensible and outdated. This will also require a review of our involvement, as will this figure of 3% of European stability. All this belongs to another world, which preceded the coronavirus, and we will have to look at things differently. For this reason, Mr Minister, I would like to know how to activate, in particular, these partnerships that we have already mentioned, but also to make sure that we mobilise a little more the enormous logistical resources that NATO and the Eurocorps have to be at the disposal of other European countries and to put even more emphasis on this international solidarity. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u30	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for making this possible. Thanks for the explanation, too. It is clear that Defense is providing a great deal of support in the fight against this invisible enemy. In the long term, the Belgian army must play an important role in the reconstruction process, both supporting and coordinating, in the redevelopment of our society. Is there a planned plan for this? If not, are we working on that? Given the huge, existing HR challenge, we will need all people. I therefore have questions about the missions in my own country or OVG. We see little to no more soldiers in the street. Were they withdrawn to protect themselves or because there's less terror threat? Is there any possibility of providing in the Corona Exit Plan or in the reconstruction process that military forces will no longer be deployed on the streets so that they can be fully involved in reconstruction? I would like to refer to Mr Vandenput's resolution, which calls for the implementation of a concrete, effective and systematic phasing-out plan, in order to end the OVG by June 2020. Questions have already been asked about Belgians abroad and their repatriation, but what about our military on a mission abroad? What directives are applied there, the Belgian or the foreign? Can they come back for scheduled leave with their families? Are planned missions currently being postponed or cancelled? What is the general policy of Defense for these military? Were there any clear guidelines on this? A number of colleagues have already mentioned NATO. It is important that it plays a role in this. What measures does NATO take to combat corona? What role does NATO play in this? Are directives communicated by Member State? Is there a plan of action for the post-pandemic period?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u31	Mr President, I shall be very brief. To what extent is Defence's medical capacity deployed in this crisis? Can this medical capacity and its deployment be further extended?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u32	I believe that all the questioners who have asked for the floor have also been given the floor. I would like to add a brief comment myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u33	In my own name, I agree with all the colleagues who thank the military. I believe, moreover, that I can speak on behalf of the whole committee when I say that the military are once again doing a fantastic job in these difficult times. Just now it was done rather narrowly about the 2 % standard and the fact that it is suddenly asked for it. The word "strange" has been used in the mouth. We must make sure that this government, which hopefully will come forward with a coalition agreement one day, does not use this crisis to underinvest in Defence. I believe that this crisis has just again demonstrated the added value of the defence industry. I think it is very important that we continue to invest heavily in the defence sector. This crisis must not be used as a pretext for underinvestment in the defence sector. I have a few specific questions, Minister. Firstly, a number of colleagues have already asked questions about the frigate Leopold I. I would like to join in that. What safety measures are being taken for the crew? For example, we hear the VSOA trade union mention a catastrophic organization of quarantine. There is talk of a lack of available accommodation for the staff. A lack of organisation in the laundry would force the military to wash their underwear in the shower. Mr Minister, I believe that such a statement by the trade unions deserves a reply from you, don't you? In general, what precautions are being taken for the crew aboard the frigate Leopold I, and by extension for all our ships? Secondly, I have a question about the logistical efforts that Defence is making in relation to the corona crisis. You have already referred to Peutie as a central organizational point, and to a few provincial command posts that function. The trade union ACMP says that the distribution of stocks, including from the barracks in Peutie, takes place without proper protective equipment. I hope that this is not true and that there is sufficient care material available. Can we learn something from this crisis with a view to the provincial distribution centres? For example, the Gavere barracks in East Flanders is under pressure to be closed, but now performs an ideal function as anchor point. Will this have implications? Is there any lessons to be learned from this for the barracks plan to be drawn up? I would also like to talk specifically about logistical support. The FPS Public Health is working on a plan to also do helicopter transport to move patients to other hospitals. What role can Defence play in this, not only in terms of equipment, but also in terms of the use of doctors and so on? I understand they're already on intensive care. Can they also play a role in helicopter transport?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the Minister to reply and I can imagine that there can be no response to every aspect. However, it may be possible to answer certain questions in writing. I shall now give the Minister the floor for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u35	Mr President, that was a lot of questions. I'll do my best to give as many answers as I can. I'll start with the questions about the residential care centers and the support of the Defense Department. The application for support is submitted to the working group of outpatient care and is dealt with by the liaison officers of the Defense Department, in consultation with the federal health inspector. Currently, support has already been given in two residential care centres, in Jette and in Lustin, a submunicipality of Profondeville. Mr Prévot, I obviously agree with your concerns, as well as those of other mayors present here – I am thinking of Christophe Lacroix and others – about the difficulty linked to the very concrete situation of the rest homes in the three regions. Before coming here to committee, there was a meeting that I unfortunately had to leave to attend our committee. This meeting was to discuss the situation in nursing homes. I recall our availability at the Defence level. It has been requested or the three Regions will be asked to communicate to us precisely the requests of the rest homes which the Regions will relay. Take the example of the fire commander who would see a fire two kilometres from his barracks! Here, the conditions are obviously different. I think it is important to work in a very structured and organized way. The Crisis Centre is there to channel all requests to avoid anarchy and the impression that preference would be given to one or another. It is better to centralize requests. After that, you also know that there is the whole structure of provincial governors and commanders to put all this in coherence before they come to support. I started with the rest homes because it's a point that is the subject of a lot of requests from you and that I obviously share. The idea is to analyse the demands precisely before considering, in terms of our capabilities, what we can really do, with a clear willingness to help concretely on the ground. That's what I had to say about nursing homes. Now I will try to answer in the order of the questions that have been put to me and in the order of the speakers. In connection with a question from Mrs Ponthier and Mrs Chanson, the first cases were reported after the crocus holiday through the occupational physician. Information on cases of probable coronavirus contamination has been raised to the level of the Director of Occupational Medicine for several units. However, specific follow-up is only provided for confirmed cases. In addition, the medical secret applies. The number of staff per unit reporting sick shall be monitored. Here is a statement of the situation today: 62 confirmed cases within the Defence, 12 of which have been hospitalized; 178 members of the Defence have symptoms without testing; and 91 people are in quarantine without any symptoms. Defence does not actively participate in Exercise Defender Europe 2020: it sent only 2 liaison officers from the Movement Control Group to Kaiserslautern, Germany, to coordinate the various movements of American equipment from the Regional Movement Coordination Center, throughout the entire deployment phase and during the exercise. However, since 13 March 2020 all movements of personnel and equipment from the USA to Europe have been stopped. The various exercises associated with Defender Europe 20 are therefore cancelled or adapted. Mrs Ponthier and Mr Lacroix, the following list of activities shows what Defence is already doing in the fight against COVID-19: the deployment of two ambulances for the transport of COVID-19 patients, the expansion of burn capacity in MHKA to other hospitals, so that all burn patients from all over Belgium, except Lover, can be transferred to the MHKA burn centre and additional capacity can be released in other hospitals, the deployment of four liaison officers to strengthen the FPS Public Health, the provision of an extraction device to the Institute of Tropical Medicine in Antwerp, the doubling of testing capacity, the provision of a high-frequency jet ventilation device to the Erasmus hospital in Brussels, the provision of ventilation equipment, assistance to a triage zone with materials and personnel, repatriation of fellow citizens and EU citizens, the deployment of transport and storage capacity for the FOD Health, the provision of a high frequency unit to the POP and six shelters to the large cities. The use of the staff varies from day to day, depending on the needs and possibilities. Although the impact on normal operation is negligible, the majority of workers work remotely or work at home. Only the staff required to carry out essential tasks will actually be deployed. The rest of the staff, of course, is always ready to carry out an assignment. Staff carrying out the aforementioned tasks shall be protected by the available medical equipment so that they can perform their duties properly and safely. Additional tasks may be carried out at the request of the Government or the NCCN after evaluation by the Defence Staff. The commitment and location depend on the specific questions and needs. Defence is always ready to provide the following support, if requested, in the short term. It is possible to use six Role 1; one doctor, one officer, one nurse, ten ambulances are on notice to move 4 hours to perform pretriage as a medical rapid reaction force, strengthen or relieve the civilian medical task force; one pool of emergency medical technicians is on notice to move 8 hours, to strengthen or relieve civilian care providers or to strengthen ambulance services; individual enhancement of medical coordination or decision level is possible with medical planners, veterinarians, pharmacists or dentists; there can be provision for bestaffining and management of an intermediate hospital capacity; disinfection capacities can be made available and support can be provided to the FPS Justice Department. Of course, if necessary, other capacities can also be used to support the nation. Defence is also always ready to guarantee the security of our compatriots abroad. With regard to support for border control, no specific question has currently been asked for the support of the legally competent authority for this purpose. Indeed, due to the COOVID-19 crisis and the measures taken in this regard, a number of military personnel in foreign operations must stay abroad longer. It is about 250 soldiers in Europe, about 15 soldiers in the Middle East and about 19 soldiers in Afghanistan. In Africa, there are about 90 military forces in both Mali and Niger. In order to respect the national and international guidelines issued, the rotation schedule for operations in Mali and Afghanistan had to be adjusted. The relevant commanders of the detachment and the respective units were immediately informed of the impact of the corona crisis on their situation. In addition, the family was informed by the respective commanders of the detachment. From the contact with the respective commanders of the detachment it can be inferred that our military show understanding of this exceptional situation. Following the Belgian government's containment measures, the training of eight Belgian naval personnel at the Koninklijke Marine Technische Opleidingen in the Netherlands was effectively suspended. The situation in our two countries is monitored daily and we hope to resume as soon as possible, as soon as the situation permits. In addition, at the Dutch-Belgian Operational School, the majority of Belgian sailors (28 out of 31) who take part in the various training courses can continue to take their courses in accordance with the preventive measures applicable in Belgium. For Belgian soldiers whose mission is suspended, the NATO march order is also suspended. They no longer receive mission allowances, but also no longer have expenses associated with this mission. There is no change, however, with respect to their wages. The resumption of courses will only be in the absolute certainty that the preventive measures applicable in Belgium are also applicable within the schools concerned. I come to the questions put by Mrs Ponthier and Mr Francken on the destruction of the masks. From 2006 until the end of 2018, masks of the FPS Public Health were stored in pilots of the military quarter Plaine de Belgrade in Namur. The management, replenishing the stocks and destroying the medical masks were done by the FPS Public Health. The FPS Public Health carried out a clean-up operation in 2015 and in the course of the concession at the end of 2018 in which masks were destroyed because the expiry date was exceeded. More information about this can be obtained from the FPS Public Health. In 2005 a convention was concluded between the FPS Public Health and Defense with accompanying official license which regulated the storage of medical equipment in military infrastructure. The mouth masks were stored in heated sheds until the central heating collapsed in 2012. Since the entire heating system had to be renewed and there was no military activity in that part of the quarter, together with the FPS Public Health, it was considered whether the mouth masks should be moved to another location. The FPS Public Health was of the opinion that the conditions of storage were sufficient so that in 2012 Defense closed a domanial permit with the FPS Public Health for the use of the unheated pilots. Your question regarding the circumstances in which the mouth masks had to be stored and to what extent it could be waived should be asked to the specialists of the Public Health Office. The various departments of the federal government are united in trying to resolve the current crisis. In the meantime, nothing has changed about Operation Vigilant Guardian's phasing-out plan. This has already been discussed at the level of the Strategic Committee on Intelligence and Security as well as the National Security Council. It will also be on the agenda of the next government. The current government has other priorities and there is currently no question of adjusting the number of military personnel. Our soldiers on the street do have the necessary equipment. The detachment OVG features a set of gloves and masks. They shall only use them if strictly necessary and by order of the detachment commander. All the measures in force are also being applied as effectively as possible. The registrations for the admission test for the candidate professional officers, like those for all other vacancies within the Defence Department, were not stopped but suspended until further notice. These measures were taken because of the corona crisis. Defense is applying federal corona measures in the hospital and has therefore suspended a basic medical selection. This is not, therefore, a specific defence measure, but a general measure which applies to everyone and is correctly applied by the Defence Department. Defence shall make all preparations to maximise the remaining selection capacity after the end of the prevention measures. Defence is studying the various possibilities to ensure that recruitment 2020 continues as effectively as possible. The possibility of extending the tendering period is not excluded. Defence is acquiring a new field hospital. Delivery is actually expected at the end of 2020, beginning of 2021. Mr. Lacroix, your question was about missions to assist the nation in the context of the coronavirus crisis. In order to optimize coordination between the various national actors, any request must be made at the federal level through the National Crisis Centre where the Defence Liaison Officers are present. All requests are analysed for consistency and efficiency, as I have already said. Defence stands ready to provide assistance while preserving its ongoing missions and expeditionary capabilities. At the meeting of the Ministers of the European Union on 6 April on the involvement of the armed forces in the fight against VOCID-19, it was decided to analyse the feasibility of setting up a "corona task force" within the European Union. This task force would aim at a better exchange of information on the commitments of the national armed forces in support of civilian structures, in the fight against VOCID-19, as well as the collection of best practices of the armed forces of the European Union. Mr. Bayet, you are asking me about the measures taken for military and civilian members of Defence personnel. Of course, Defence's objective remains the well-being and health of its staff and their families, as well as the continuity of ongoing operational commitments. The Defence is doing its utmost to protect its staff, both in Belgium and abroad, in accordance with the directives issued by the Federal Government. The situation is closely monitored and the guidelines are systematically adapted to the requirements of the Public Health FPS. In view of the difficulties in resupplying certain additional specific means of protection, these are distributed according to the priorities set by the staff and used in the most efficient way possible. Before an operational engagement, a check takes place 14 days prior to deployment but also on the day of departure and, if necessary, the personnel are seen by a doctor. During this period, staff are in isolation. As regards the deployment of our military abroad during the corona crisis, its outbreak coincided with the rotation of the detachments in Afghanistan and Mali. The rotation shall be closely monitored and action shall be taken where necessary. By the end of the month, rotation will be fully completed, including compliance with the measures imposed. In the operating area, measures are also in place to ensure maximum protection for personnel. The Belgian military who are deployed are symptoms-free and have served a period of quarantine. In addition, medical follow-up is ensured, allowing rapid intervention. So far, there has been only a delay in relation to the initial repayment schedule. As regards the statement by NATO boss, Mr Stoltenberg, the response to the crisis caused by COVID-19 had been the top priority at the meeting of Foreign Ministers on 2 April 2020. The alliance shows solidarity in the first place and contributes to the collective effort against this unprecedented pandemic, while it is always ready to carry out fundamental tasks. At present, it is too early to assess the long-term consequences of this dramatic crisis. A meeting of Defence Ministers was planned in mid-April 2020 to adapt the measures already taken in the fight against the epidemic if necessary, but also to launch an assessment of the impact of this crisis in the medium and long term. The Secretary-General's message means that NATO's mission is to ensure peace and security. The threats against which the alliance must arm itself will not disappear during or after this crisis and the many efforts that have been made to improve our security must continue. In order to continue to protect against an increasing threat, the allies committed themselves from 2014 to increase Defence spending to 2% of GDP by 2024. Every year, Belgium communicates its planned defence expenditure to NATO until 2024, on the basis of the strategic plan. In the current context, it would be premature to announce any adjustment of the budget path or to launch a debate on the need to adjust the 2% standard while the priority is solidarity and action rather than in accounts and discussions. Mr Francken, at the meeting of the EU Defence Ministers on 6 April on military involvement in the fight against COVID-19 and its impact on the EU operation, it was decided, at the request of several Member States, to analyse the creation of a task force within the EUMS. This task force would ensure a better exchange of information on the deployment of national armed forces in support of civil structures in the fight against COVID-19. This task force would also be responsible for the collection of EU forces' best practices. In the fight against COVID-19, the Euro-Atlantic Disaster Response Coordination Centre is responsible for coordinating the demand and supply of military assistance to NATO members and their partner countries. The consent of the EU Task Force is therefore slightly different from that of NATO-EADRICC. The EU Defence Ministers' meeting also repeatedly called for the application of the general basic principles in EU-NATO cooperation, namely the need for synergy, the avoidance of unnecessary duplication and the pursuit of complementarity. The question of analysing the establishment of a task force within the EUMS was raised at the EU Defence Ministers' meeting. Coordination with NATO in this area should be further developed through the existing structures and mechanisms between the two organisations. Taking into account the specific military nature of the objective and the information, it is logical that the European military expertise body, the EU-Military Staff, plays a leading role in it. This task force can use existing structures and as such does not create additional bodies. You also asked me a question about repatriation flights. Two flights are currently scheduled. No specific flights are planned for the next few days. Humanitarian aid was originally provided for the migrants in Tournai, but this action has not been continued. With regard to the masks, I refer to my reply to Mrs Ponthier. No refugees were accommodated in the quarter of Belgrade. For the rest, I believe I have answered your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u36	Mr Minister, I would like to interrupt because this Chamber must be prepared for the Conference of Presidents. I am happy to give you the floor to conclude. I do not want to open any more rounds of questions, but it is important that the committee members receive answers to the questions that have been asked. Can this be done in writing for the questions to which you have not yet been able to answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u37	There is obviously no difficulty with that. I'm so sorry. Time is what it is. We would have wished to provide answers to all the questions asked. There's still a lot of them. It's 11:45. If I understand correctly, you must give way to the meeting of the Conference of Presidents. The answers will of course be sent to you in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u38	Mr President, Minister, thank you for this interesting exchange of views. Of course, you cannot go into everything, so we will examine the written answers carefully. I have one more question, not about the content, but about the agenda. I ask that the committee responsible for the follow-up of foreign missions be convened as soon as possible. I see that we have more than 500 people abroad, and I would like to look at that thoroughly, hopefully at the latest next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u39	Mr President, I agree with the argument put forward by Mr Franken. It is important to also take an interest in the military abroad and to take stock. Indeed, the machine does not stop. Mr Minister, I am very concerned about the response given to the position of NATO and the European Union. It is planned to set up a task force to determine what can be done together, what requests will be made, how to respond to them. We're in an emergency situation. However, I have the impression that at the level of the NATO and European Union command structures the gravity of the situation is not being measured, which is why I urge you to be a driving force in mobilizing the logistical means of NATO and the European Union to help the European countries, but also the countries of the Alliance and our southern neighbours, where we have the capacity to do so. Thanks, let's stop the studies, put in place the task forces and let's take action!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u40	Mr Prévot, I give you the floor and ask you to be very brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u41	Mr President, I will intervene very briefly to cut the wings to a duck, since I heard the minister say that the masks had been stored in Belgrade, in the commune of Namur, of which I am pleased to be the mayor. It was in 2012, following a heating problem, that the question of relocation arose and it was at the initiative of the city that in 2015, Mr Franken, who was then Secretary of State, was contacted in order to offer him a reception for asylum seekers. It was therefore because the premises had been released that they could be accommodated and not, as some would suggest, because it was necessary to accommodate asylum seekers that the masks were put on the side. It was important to bring this precision to avoid bad instrumentalizations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u42	Thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u43	Colleagues, I propose that the committee be terminated. I also propose, Mrs Ponthier, that a committee be convened in the short term to monitor foreign shipments. We are also looking forward to the written answers to the questions asked. You have taken an initiative, Minister. I am also trying to convene the committee again as soon as possible in order to continue this exchange of views and to deal with the outstanding questions in one of the following weeks. Mr De Vriendt, you are asking for the last word?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u44	Mr President, can it be agreed with the Minister that the answers will be delivered today?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u45	When can these answers be delivered, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u46	This afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic139x.u47	There is the commitment that those answers will be delivered today.
