ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u2	The general discussion was resumed. The general discussion has resumed. You are asking for the floor, Mr De Roover?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u3	Mr President, you should also give me the floor. I can no longer put my question to Mr Verherstraeten. He's not here, but that opportunity might come up later. The chair's changed. The tent has passed into your competent hands, Mr President. I am not addressing you, but 'the President's Institute'. I want to express my displeasure. After the President clearly fell out of her role yesterday with regard to Mr Francken, I do not appreciate the fact that I did not get the floor this morning for a manifest personal fact. I wish that would be done. I would like to ask the Presidency, in this respect, never to give rise to any appearance of partiality.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u4	Am I to understand that you are no longer asking for the floor, Mr De Roover? Mr Verherstraeten has arrived.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u5	He breathes around my neck, even during breaks, but let the debate take place with Mr Matheï. Then we'll follow the events further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u6	You have the floor for your group in the general discussion, Mr Matheï.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u7	Mr President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, over the last few weeks we have seen a lot of policy papers passed and we have had substantive debates with both fronts and opponents. Ideas were suggested. Ministers and Secretary of State came to defend their policies and they have shown a great deal of ambition to make our country more inclusive, more sustainable, more prosperous. There is a great 'but', because in the context of these ambitions we are faced with the reality of the past few months and actually the past one and a half years. The current situation may make us forget, but we have been without a full majority government for almost 500 days. Corona has also been added, and at the moment also the troubles around Brexit. In this reality, the current government has been formed with seven parties with separate opinions, their own views. Nevertheless, what we have heard in recent weeks and today shows that clear choices are being made for the future of our country. This can only be done if there is good cooperation, if those parties look for what binds them and not what separates them, if we go for good and clear cooperation. The common thread in the debates, which always plays in the background, is of course corona and in particular the fight against corona. That is a battle that we must all fight together in different areas. Firstly, there is the fight against the virus, for those who are facing the medical consequences and for those who are doing everything they can to give them the necessary care. This requires measures already taken by the government and measures relating to vaccines to combat the virus. For those people, those who are confronted with corona and the people in care, the government must be there. In addition to the health struggle, there are, of course, effects for ordinary people, people who are financially faced with a number of consequences, because they have to close their shops, because they are faced with temporary unemployment. This brings with it financial concerns that play a major role. It goes beyond financial concerns, because we feel mental concerns are also emerging everywhere. It may be a single, older person in the residential care centre, who cannot have the normal visit as he would like, or a family whose parents are dependent on temporary unemployment, or the little girl who has had a risk contact and therefore sees all her hobbies disappear at once and is sad about it. Those may be small cases, but they are things that have an impact. For this kind of concern the government must be there. A final consequence of the corona crisis, the economic aspect, is of course very important. That also weighs into the future of what I'm going to tell you. In this respect, a great deal of efforts have already been made by the government to cope with the first shocks, to ensure that those who had difficulty in undertaking can be drawn through the crisis. But also the next phase, reconstruction, is now on the table. A number of measures have already been taken to this end, and there is still a great deal to be done. For those entrepreneurs and the self-employed, too, the government must be there. In other words, corona has put everything on focus, has created a different focus. This means that the current government has the primary task of fighting the corona crisis, with attention to health, the economy and psychosocial well-being. These attention and measures, of course, cost money, a lot of billions. We have also learned from the feedback and reports from the Court of Auditors and from Europe that we need to go for the measures that are needed and that are as temporary as possible, but we also need to think about investing in the future. That's part of the relance to get the economy back on track. With the first task, in particular tackling the corona crisis, the current government is busy day in and day out. But in recent weeks we have also seen that the various ministers and secretaries of state are also taking further steps. These are steps in the coalition agreement which are essential for the future of our country and, consequently, for its inhabitants. Getting people to work, increasing purchasing power, raising pensions, the sustainability story, safety, all these issues have been addressed in detail. Finally, there is the horizon in the longer term, because we must also bear in mind this. The government also has the necessary attention. We have heard this in recent weeks, for example in the long-term thinking on mobility, the fiscal aspect and a fiscal reform, which is necessary and presents many challenges.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u8	Mr Matheï, Mr Vermeersch would like to interrupt you for a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u9	Mr President, Mr Matheï, you are talking about the long term. You say this government is preparing the long term. In the CD&V programme, I read: "We must keep the budget in balance if we are to meet the cost of ageing." So CD&V specifically wanted to look at the long term, finance the ageing population. We have heard the Members of Ecolo and PS here today. They said quite clearly, contrary to what is in your programme and contrary to what you are now saying, that budgetary discipline must be brought to fruition. That is the end of budgetary discipline, and they believe that it should be omitted. For the Walloon parties that dominate this government, the discipline of the budget is something that should be left out. Your colleague Bogaert, who used to be on the Finance Committee, was always the great advocate of that budget in balance. I would remind you of what I said today, that these budgetary plans are irresponsible and effectively lead us to the column of the weakest and most guilty countries in Europe. What long term do you see? What is CD&V's position on budgetary discipline, which is clearly omitted here? Which CD&V is speaking now?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u10	Mr President, Mr Matheï, you spoke just now about the fiscal part and about the efforts that CD&V wants to make, after all, you are providing the Minister of Finance with a view to simplifying, reforming and making equitable taxation. Of course, you are also very sensitive about this. After all, the Christian Democrats have values in their banner that should be the cement of society: charity, mercy. Solidarity is part of this, I believe. The fiscal chapter of the CD&V party programme states: "A fair tax system means that everyone with their sources of income contributes and that the strongest shoulders bear the heaviest burdens." Mr Matheï, if you think that the strongest should bear the heaviest burdens, how is it that the biggest fortunes are left out of the securities tax 2.0.............................................................................................................................................................................. Let us take a look at the site of the richest Belgians, of wealthiest families, kept up by a journalist. Will those 1 to 2 % of most well-off families, who earn their wealth through direct participation in companies and registered shares, be effectively taken into account by that security tax? Yes or no? After all, we also hear a lot of voices from Christian civil society in favour of a true and real contribution from those strongest shoulders, think of the Christian workers' movement or Marc Leemans, chairman of the ACV. During Rerum Novarum, he called for a once and for all capital tax of 1 % above EUR 1 million, 2 % above 2 million and 3 % above 3 million. We are very familiar with this, because we have already made the proposal of this structural capital tax ourselves in the form of a millionaire tax. Mr Matheï, can you tell me how you will effectively use these securities tax 2.0 to appeal to the most powerful people in order for them to finally make a contribution, including in these corona times? When will you demonstrate this Christian virtue of mercy and solidarity by calling on the top powers to re-activate a very small part of their wealth in the many social needs that exist today, to strengthen our social protection, a real strengthening of the minimum pension of EUR 1,500 net and a real increase in benefits up to the European poverty line? We can do that by reactivating a small part of those highest abilities. That is not even of a sensitive order for them, but it will mean a world of difference for all those people who are struggling now, for all the self-employed who are now fighting to get by, for all those people who are working and are still at risk of falling out of the boat. We need that tax operation. How do you expect to achieve that with that securityless securities account tax 2.0? Will you really work on a structural capital tax, a real contribution from the strongest shoulders?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your quick questions, because some of what you are asking is still being discussed during my speech, but I would certainly like to say a few words about it now. Mr Vermeersch, we are indeed in favour of a realistic budget, a budget in which we have an eye for the future. The same is true of our electoral programme, namely that our electoral programme, like all the others, was drawn up for the coronapandemic, which means that the content of the electoral programme must be combined with a certain realism. I'm gonna go deeper into that later. In our realism, in the long term, we are still striving for a balance, for a further reduction in the deficit. I am also pleased that fair taxation has been cited, because that is indeed an important part of our programme. Contrary to what you're trying to make out, our vision of fair taxes is not just limited to some kind of securities account tax. For us, this is a global package. Soon I will go into the tax section in detail, including what is in that package over the next few years, which is in the programme. A piece of it is indeed a securities account tax that places people with a certain amount on a securities account. People who do not have that amount will have to pay an extra tax; that is in the package. However, it is much broader for us. In a few moments, I'll come to smaller things, like the sportsmen. I believe, however, that the great global tax exercise, embedded in the government agreement, on the design of a new tax structure and architecture, can also bring interesting things into play. We may be able to broaden the taxable basis to ensure that labour costs go down. All these things are on the table, and we have been trying to get them into the coalition agreement. Of course, they need to be further developed. I was talking about all kinds of issues that need to be addressed, first and foremost the corona crisis, but also other issues in the longer term. Of course, these ambitions also include figures. During hearings in the Finance Committee, we heard from the Court of Auditors and Europe that the current situation is very uncertain, especially because of corona. This budget is based on the outlook available in September and October. A month later, however, we heard other figures from the European Commission and yesterday the National Bank came up with better figures. This shows that the situation is uncertain. Some translate that as sinterklaa politics or count themselves rich, but the situation is that there is uncertainty in the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u12	I usually prefer to intervene at the end, so that one can fully build up one's reasoning, but here it is explicitly about the uncertain context and the fact that some translate it as sintering-clay politics. I said in my speech that I understand that uncertainty, but I do not understand why certain things are not included in those uncertainties. Mr Matheï, I have some very specific questions. The vaccines must be ordered, but there is no budget for that. Is that okay with you? The Brexit is coming, but no aid budget is foreseen. Is that okay with you? The European Commission and the Court of Auditors came up with a number of comments and in the Flemish Parliament the government is already putting forward amendments to amend its own budget in September. However, we note that this government does not. Is that okay with you? Those are some very specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u13	Mr Mathei, I would like to return to the question put by Mr De Vuyst. Indeed, what I am concerned about in the absence of an answer to his question is that I have already asked the same question ten, fifteen or twenty times to the Minister of Finance, who is not there at the moment but who probably has a valid reason to be absent. Every time I asked him this simple question, the Minister of Finance refused to answer it. You say that you tax the widest shoulders, the big fortunes such as the Werners of Spoelberch, the Brother, the Janssens or the Bertrands. I have asked Minister Van Peteghem many times why, if he wants to tax the widest shoulders, he does not tax the nominal shares held by the great fortunes I have just mentioned. Is it the CD&V as a whole that refuses to answer or is it just the Minister of Finance? I would like to know if you intend to answer that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u14	I will perhaps take up what was last discussed, but I have already replied to it, of course. We believe that fair taxation is broader and that the securities account tax is a first step in taxing certain people with a significant amount of money. That will have to be looked at in its entirety. I shall return to what Mr Loones just said. The uncertain situation that is now occurring also evolves very quickly, of course. There are issues that need to be dealt with and there are issues that need to be adapted. That has also been explained in detail by the Minister and the Secretary of State in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and that is also what the Court of Auditors is demonstrating. There will have to be adjustments, and that will not be the last adjustments, because we will have to go along with them constantly. Then we can take the measures that are currently being registered and then we can adjust them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u15	Mr Matheï, I would like to insist on an answer. It is logical that these budgets should be adjusted. That is what budgetary controls are for. There are things that we already know for sure, for example, the vaccines that have to be paid for for an amount of EUR 370 million. We have tabled an amendment on this. Why is the government not already putting an amendment in its own budget today? Why are you waiting for budgetary control to take place in a few months' time, when it is already possible to do so? The Flemish Parliament is also debating the budget, where the government is already coming in transparently and in consultation with Parliament, with an extra corona commission of EUR 1 billion. So the government itself comes up with an amendment to get to work proactively. Why is that a good example and you don't do it here? Why is that security given there and you don't do it here?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u16	Mr Matheï, thank you for your non-response, which gives an answer to the other question that I asked: is it only the Minister of Finance who refuses to explain to me why the nominal shares which constitute the form of wealth held by the richest are not taxed? That's not just him, but the whole CD&V refuses to answer that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u17	Perhaps a very brief response to Mr Loones. Why isn't this being updated now? I think the intention is to move quickly and that will be done. Of course, fees are provided for in order to make expenditure, and that can be looked at further in this way. I assume the government will reply to that, in the near future, during the evening or during the night. As far as budgets are concerned, we, as CD&V, have been working for a credible, but also pragmatic, multi-annual budget in recent weeks and months as well as in the government negotiations. An ambitious path has been set out, but it must also be realistic. That is why we have worked with fixed and variable efforts. This means that when the economy attracts, the efforts are also greater, while when the relance would slacken or reduce, efforts are smaller. We think that this is very logical, it is a theme and a way of working that can perfectly be applied in order not to fall into a much too rigid budget situation, which basically means that economic growth is being driven away. These aspects are also in line with what the Court of Auditors has said. It pointed out the uncertainty and said that this great uncertainty about the pandemic, the prospects and the facts could quickly become obsolete. That is the case, and we must be pragmatic in dealing with it. Europe has also confirmed that the budget is adequate, but has made a number of recommendations for what will become very important in the coming months, in particular the recovery plan, which must also be an immediate opportunity for our country to make certain investments. If we are to achieve such a budget, in which, of course, efforts must also be made, it is important that there is a balance between the efforts being made and the new policies. Before additional funds are requested, for example through a securities account fee, it is quite clear that public expenditure should also be examined. We are saving 2% of the staff, but again with the necessary pragmatism, because the sectors that take the lead in the fight against corona must reach a smaller percentage. We also welcome the Secretary of State's idea of working with a system, or a pilot project, of spending reviews in the coming years, to see how efforts can be made in a logical way. What certainly makes us happy is that the efforts and the steps taken by the previous government to reduce the burden on labour are maintained. Of course, there must also be room for new policies. There will also be EUR 1.3 billion of public investment, forward-looking, in certain areas, such as mobility, energy transition, digitisation and research. All these domains are important to shape the relance and also to prepare the future of our country. We also have an investment fund of EUR 1 billion in European funds and the transformation fund through the FPIM, which amounts to EUR 0.5 billion. In addition, this government invests in security with the federal police, acts on climate, and so on. There are therefore clear choices on the basis of this budget. If the corona pandemic has shown anything, then it is that the safety net of social security is more necessary than ever. Steps are also being taken in this regard. In addition, minimum pensions are increased, as well as benefits moving towards the poverty line, and, not to mention, structural efforts are being made in the healthcare sector. Not only applause is a sign of recognition, also better conditions, a reduction in workload and more training. Cooking costs money, that is also very clear. The number of people working is a crucial factor, as speakers have already mentioned. This is a crucial factor, because working people provide additional resources, including for the government, but there is another very important aspect, because working people have social contacts, they are part of it. People who have become temporarily unemployed or working at home because of the corona crisis have noticed that social contacts are an essential part of being human. To get people working, thresholds need to be removed. Firstly, it concerns thresholds for the employee himself. We provide for a combination of part-time work and part-time sickness recovery. We are making efforts to reward part-time work and to punish it less, which may have been done too much in the past. We give people with disabilities more opportunities in the labour market. We also reduce the price of labour. If someone with a disability lives together, they benefit from working and social contact. We'll make it workable. There is, for example, Mr Nahima Lanjri's proposal to increase maternity leave. In addition to these thresholds for workers, there is also a need to work on the thresholds experienced by employers. For example, in recent months this has been done to ensure that the temporary unemployed get back to work quickly, which is good for everyone. In the future, this will continue to be pursued in a structural way, for example by ensuring that the social security contributions of the first employee are abolished. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how we get to the fiscal chapter. We have already discussed it, as a preview. The coalition agreement contains important fiscal aspects, short-term ambitions, medium-term and long-term. These will already be translated into very concrete measures in 2021, clear accents but above all measures to the point. I'm gonna go over a couple of yards with you. The first is about small and large measures that have a direct impact on people. People are going to have something about that, first and foremost the common man, who will be able to pay and communicate digitally in an easy way. It's a small thing, but it can make a difference, the people who have a hard time with it are not forgotten, because a project is being set up which proactively calls them. Ordinary people certainly also benefit from the important measure of the 6 % VAT for construction and reconstruction. We put this measure into a legislative proposal in 2019, colleague Leen Dierick was the leader of this. This 6 % VAT ensures that people who are about to build can do so in a more cost-effective way. At the same time, we are building sustainability, because old homes are disappearing and new homes are emerging that meet higher standards. At the same time, we are activating the economy in the construction sector. For ordinary people too, our party believes that there are two very important elements in these proposals. First of all, we are talking about the tax advantage for childcare, for working people who have to take their children to care. For the sake of clarity, that tax advantage will not only apply to two-earers, it will even more apply to single parents. In addition, there is a commitment to the appreciation of family care, which is more important today than ever before. People who take the initiative to take care of other people and take them in, they will get a tax advantage for that. These are concrete measures close to the people, with a major impact on the people. Measures are also being taken for businesses and the self-employed, and we are giving them oxygen to get through this very difficult period. It should also be stressed that the smaller companies will also be involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u18	We have already heard of these positive points in the programme law and I have already said that the Flemish interest supports them. In committee, however, I noted that there are also negative points in the programme law and you forget to mention them here. I am thinking in particular of non-indexing tax deductions, which means a flat tax increase. There is also the increase in excise duty on tobacco, another flat tax increase. I was then interrupted by the remark that I needed to see the overall picture of the programme law. I then asked for the figures to be provided, but I have not yet received the calculation of the effects of the programme law, unless I have made a mistake. I would like to see that overall picture, because if you only mention the pluses without mentioning the minuses, then of course you come up with a positive story. The Flemish Interest supports a number of fiscal interventions for families, but if we look at the overall picture, what is proposed there is totally unacceptable to most of the inhabitants of this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u19	Mr President, I would like to take a brief look at this, but we will discuss it in more detail in the thematic session. It is not even true that you are selective in taking out the good measures, because the good measures you mention include hidden tax increases in the tax cuts you mention. That is what I said in committee. With regard to family care, there is no tax reduction at all. There is a larger group of people who will suffer a disadvantage, starting next year and with full force from 2025. After all, your measure concerns only a very specific category of caregivers and not all other people over 65. So even the measures that you are proposing here as positive are actually hidden tax increases.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u20	That is, of course, a little exaggerated, Mr Donné. It's just that...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u21	The non-indexation of certain amounts is contained in the Programme Act. We're not gonna be silly about that. This is a technique which has not been used for the first time, but which has already been applied regularly. In this way, there is a limited effect for many people, so that a great effect can be achieved for other people who need it. One can be pro or contra that technique, but one can defend it. Of course, some people are not covered by the measures. That will always be the case, but it is quite clear that this is also a very clear signal to the carers that we will fully support the carers covered by the scheme and that they will benefit from it. I'm gonna move on to my little cover on the corporate business, if I may.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u22	I note that you are not answering my question in relation to family care. I understand that, too, because you can't answer that. It's just the way it is. It is a very complex regulation and therefore it is difficult to see that it is a tax increase, but it is effective. I think the Finance Minister will perhaps give an appropriate answer to that tonight. On the other hand, we can discuss this later, but I also heard Mr Laaouej earlier about the index jump, which he was so passionate about. The committee also discussed the non-indexation of tax expenditure. I noticed there that I really don't understand that. We are in such difficult times, we are spending billions of euros to support people during this crisis, and for EUR 17 million we are going to deal with the people who save pensions, long-term savings. We're gonna take them off the indexing. I did not understand that at all, until I heard Mr Laaouej's explanation in committee. He did have the answer. For him, this is the beginning of a further redistribution. He literally said that this is about people with the highest or higher incomes. I have looked up the figures of those who save pensions and do long-term savings. In total, nearly two million people are in need of pension savings. These are the high incomes that Mr Laaouej is talking about. I am afraid that when I hear here that the strong shoulders must bear the cost of the crisis, this is two million people. So the middle class gets this right on her plate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u23	I would like to add one small aspect. You say that you do not index the tax deductions in order to ultimately give a little more to a specific group of people. But those subtractions are sometimes needed for people who are already having a hard time. They absolutely need these subtractions in their tax returns. If they are not indexed, they will end up on the weakest shoulders. Of course, you forget to mention that non-indexation certainly affects the weakest in our society. After all, for whom do these subtractions make the biggest difference? For those people with the lowest incomes. That's why your story doesn't ring a bell. It is a flat tax increase that will also affect the weakest shoulders.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u24	I believe that the arguments for non-indexation have now all been raised. However, I would like to stress that this non-indexation is always about a small amount at a time. It is about an increase of a few euros of deduction per year. It is correct that this measure has an effect, but it is not correct to exaggerate that effect. I continue with what I was saying about the companies. I would like to stress that there is a great deal in it for the smaller companies too. Not only about the possible digitals to compete with Big Tech's big players, but also about the new VAT rules that are coming, which, for example, tackles China's unfair competition. In addition to individuals and companies, there is a group that is often forgotten in this Half Round. This group is not often mentioned here, although millions of people are involved, namely the associations. I'd like to make a call that places associations more in the picture. The Minister of Finance has already begun to do so. He specifically raised a number of issues in order to reduce the administrative burden by means of a pre-filled declaration. In addition to this measure, which has an impact on many people, businesses and associations, an important yard is the fight against fraud. With a clear aim in mind, but also with a number of clear caps: the recommendations of the Panama Papers and the establishment of the Anti-Fraud College, which should roll out a concrete plan to get started, focusing primarily on the existing VAT gap and Internet fraud. Then we come to the yard with fair taxation and fair taxes, of which we have already had the appetizer. It is, of course, about the sense of justice, but also a piece on carrying capacity. The projects may still be abstract at the moment, for example the digitals and the minimum tax, because they must also be located in an international context. Several other things are more concrete, smaller, but therefore no less important. That's how we've closed the cheese route since yesterday. The programme also includes tax and parafiscal benefits for brokers and athletes, and so on. One last yard in the tax area that I would like to mention is the larger, further future, the future-proofing and greening of our taxation. There is a great reform on our plate, on which we will all have to look. It is important to tackle them so that the reduction of labour costs can continue and the taxable base can be widened, and above all to leave all the complex additional codes of our personal taxation. We clearly need to introduce a strong simplification. To sum up, there are many ambitions in the various policy statements. Despite the current very difficult and uncertain period, I can conclude that this government is committed to an effective response to the health crisis, but also to a strong response policy. At the same time, efforts are being made to create a sustainable and very human economy with fair taxation. This government invests in sustainability, in a strictly humane but respectful migration policy and a strong security policy. This government pays attention to those who have difficulties or difficulties. In short, what we find in the present budget is a policy in which people and, above all, human beings are at the centre. People are very important. That is why our group will fully support the present budget and programme law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u25	Mr Matheï, in view of the interruptions and the debate, you have remained well within your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if there is indeed a merit to be attributed to this government, it is the art of the announcement effect. I must admit that in relation to this art, some members of the government or some party presidents – I am thinking in particular of Mr Magnette – are very strong in this field. But when the budget comes – and it's the interest of this kind of exercise – you scratch and see what's behind that announcement effect. This is where we see the big gap that can sometimes exist between speech and action, in this case budgetary acts. As far as this budget is concerned, I will note 11 observations. I will quote them first, then develop them. 1. We don't have a real break-up with Swede. 2. We have an absolute record in budgetary opacity. 3. The government remains in a spirit of austerity. 4. To go to war, the government found money. 5. The balance of social security is provisionally maintained, but it is still in danger of death. 6. Most of the tax revenue comes from the world of work. 7. There is a willingness to combat fraud, which is inversely proportional to the reported performance. 8. The government defends a liberal approach to recovery. 9. Investments are insignificant in relation to societal issues. 10. The government still wants to add layers to institutional lasagna. 11. The budget demonstrates the lack of political renewal in the head of this government. First observation: the question of continuity in relation to Sweden. It can be said that there is no real rupture despite the speech heard by the left-wing parties of this government. Earlier, when I listened to Mr Sander Loones in committee, I wondered what was going on. I am listening to Mr Loones here in plenary, and his criticisms in committee are weak on the question of the budget. They're superficial. I expected to see a well-carved reasoning, with sharp criticisms. And I wondered why. Then I thought it made sense. From the moment this government is in the succession and extension of Sweden, the N-VA will not shoot itself in the foot by criticizing a budget that is only the continuation of what the government had done when it was there. In fact, Vivaldi takes over the entire legacy of Sweden, in any case part of it: the pension at 67 years; the billions of reductions in social contributions from the shift tax or non-tax shift; the reform of the tax on companies whose tax rate has been lowered, but without removing the tax niches when it was the government's deal - in both cases it was the action of Van Overtveldt, Minister N-VA; the attacks on integration allowances; the hunt for the unemployed (remember, this had made the heart of Elio Di Rupo bleed, who continues to bleed); the attacks on the long-term sick, initiated by Sweden and deepened by Vivaldi. There are not only the measures taken from Sweden, but also: philosophy, ideological foundations such as the employer dogma, according to which one has to work longer; acceptance of competitiveness which involves both wage moderation and gifts to employers; activation of non-active people; official acceptance of poverty from the moment when the poverty thresholds for social benefits are not reached; refusal to individualise rights; austerity; gradual destruction of public services by their underfunding; maintaining the tax haven for the rich and the tax hell for workers; submission to European budgetary rules; submission to NATO-imposed military investments; denial of women's right to dispose of their bodies (the question of abortion blocked in the middle of the flight). The philosophy is the same as that of Swede, although at the level of discourse some strongly insist on the meagre differences. Even in what we are presented with as a new policy, such as the placebo tax on securities accounts, we are told that it is a "resurrection" of what Sweden had done. We're really on his own. There is one area where we are not in continuity but in development, it is that of budgetary opacity. During the budget debates, the Secretary of State for the Budget thanked me by saying that, thanks to me, she had learned a word in French, the word "opacity". It's fine, but I wish she'd learned another word. It's the word "transparency"! I would have liked her to understand the concept of transparency because she already knew the term. It would have been interesting rather than simply mentioning it as the main founding principles of its policy. In this case, a significant level of opacity is achieved. A request was made to have the fact sheets detailing how the performance of the tax measures was achieved. We never got them. Even the Swede had finally given us a few sheets, it seems to me. This is not the case. Above all, there is the interdepartmental provision. That's amazing! The interdepartmental provision is this envelope, this great tote – criticized by the Court of Auditors at every budget – where the government puts a total amount that it uses as it pleases without any control from Parliament. Over the last ten years, the average of this interdepartmental provision was €62 million. In 2021, it reached EUR 2.7 billion, an increase of 644% in this vague, opaque provision. It is quite simple, apart from the 2% cuts in budgets, the budget is totally illegible. The new policy elements are not in the budget tables, they are all in the interdepartmental provision. The tables are therefore illegible. You don't see anything because that's not where it is. It's illegal! This is contrary to the concept of speciality set out in the Act of 22 May 2003 and is above all anti-democratic. Why? Because there is no longer parliamentary control of the government. What is Parliament's purpose? It is used, on the one hand, to vote the laws and, on the other hand, to control the government. This government is therefore "zapping" one of the main functions of Parliament. The reply of the Secretary of State in committee in this regard is quite worrying. She said, "It's okay because I'm here to monitor what my fellow ministers are going to do." That is his understanding of parliamentary work: to trust the Minister of Budget. I have to say that I have rarely heard such things. Third observation: austerity. Clearly, this government has not learned the lessons of the coronavirus crisis, which has shown the crucial role of public services and social security in dealing with such a disaster. This is an austerity budget with linear cuts in public services, starting in 2021. And then it increases again. Even in social security, where there are indeed new policy elements, we are going to cut. In the midst of the crisis of the coronavirus, this government manages to make some cuts in social security. It's pretty amazing! The European budgetary gendarme leaves us a year of respite in 2021, but he warned us well – and the Secretary of State for the Budget agreed with this: after 2021, it's over! After 2021, we return to pure and harsh austerity. What is crazy is that there are new elements of politics. For example, it is said that there is a refinancing of the police, justice, firefighters, for 400 million euros in 2024. But there are cuts in the utilities for 600 million! What is the point of receiving public budgets if it is to have even greater cuts in the same public services? Linear cuts of 2%. The government tells us that some areas are preserved, that it is not 2% everywhere. For the preserved sectors, which are the essential, or "coronasensitive" sectors, these are cuts not of 2%, but of 0.8%. Even in the "coronasensitive" sectors, this government makes cuts! How many public jobs will be eliminated with these cuts? My colleague Hedebouw said that earlier. We calculated that it was 5,000 public job losses. We did the calculation ourselves because the Secretary of State did not want to answer. And I understand it! I understand she doesn't want to make a number. "Look, we're going to eliminate 5,000 jobs! That's nice!" Especially when we say we want to reach an employment rate of 80%. And where the state is in charge, it begins to eliminate 5,000 jobs. We're going to easily reach that 80%, aren't we? There is also submission to the budget officer. I quote Paul Magnette in LaLibre Belgium: "The return to austerity is not inevitable. Austerity has been a historical mistake." A historical mistake! And Secretary of State De Bleeker tells us: "We will subscribe to the European rules that will apply." She's a yes-headed woman. So it's clear. The ad effect is the Magnette side. Then the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for the Budget bring us back to the reality of submission to this budgetary gendarme. The total austerity bill will be salty. What is in this austerity? Firstly, the fixed effort of 2% cuts in public services, plus 470 million euros in social security, plus the fiscal effort for the population, 1.9 billion fixed effort. Then, from 2022 onwards, there is the variable effort, which is more or less, according to the government's estimates, 75% of the fixed effort. We are already reaching 3.3 billion austerity. In addition, respect for the rules of the European Union is added. We were forced into fiscal trajectories as early as 2022. This means that we still have three billion "in the lattes" if we have to respect the reduction of the deficit of 0.5% per year. The fourth aspect of austerity is the deflating of bogus measures. The tax fraud which is supposed to bring back a billion, this return effect "magic fly" that the liberals have always used but which is also used today by the socialists and ecologists, i.e. 400 million euros. These false revenues will have to be financed when we see that they have deflated. Fifthly, there is the possible deterioration of the economic situation. Indeed, we are in the midst of a crisis of coronavirus, and the governor of the National Bank is holding a reassuring speech. But we know that behind the crisis of the coronavirus is a more fundamental crisis of capitalism. By breaking wages, necessarily, one day, consumption is no longer there. One example is justice. Justice is a sector that is supposed to be refinanced. But neither fiscal policy nor budget tables contain the 125 million that will go to justice. We're looking. But everything is in the interdepartmental provision. I take as an example the prison officers who fought under the previous legislature to have more officers. We even banned their strike, after all. You can't find that in the paintings. You don't know if they're going to be raised or not. In fact, we do, we know, because Mr. Van Quickenborne said it wasn't about it. But if a pure liberal had not had this right-wing frankness to say that there would be no commitments in prisons, we would not have done so because the budget tables do not allow us to say so. Mobility is also a good example. The Greens are still in the government. Mr Gilkinet has a lot of ambition, but if we look at the budget tables again, we are looking for increases. Most importantly, there is a significant decrease in staffing 2021 for SNCB. Mr. Gilkinet said that the increase in productivity would continue. For the railwaymen, we continue within the framework of the ministers Galant and Bellot. Productivity, as we know, is to transport more passengers with fewer railway workers, and we know the result. That is the opposite of what Mr Gilkinet says. It is less speed, less punctuality, less accessibility, less safety to the point than Mr Gilkinet, this weekend, obviously felt obliged to say that the SNCB was going to hire 8,000 railway workers by 2024. He makes me think a little about those bosses of the big banks who announce that they will hire so many thousands of people without ever specifying the number of natural departures. Mr Gilkinet, who has often been critical of bankers in the Finance Committee, today uses their methods in his speeches on employment. I find this a little disturbing. In terms of climate, we have cuts, savings of 2.7 million euros in the administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u27	Mr Van Hees, Mr Vanden Burre wishes to speak. I give him the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u28	I did not intend to intervene in particular, Mr Van Hees, but at some point there is a limit to lies. To say that the resources in the SNCB have fallen since the new government is false. I've got the painting in front of my eyes. That's not true! Say it's not enough, but don't say that! Comparing Georges Gilkinet to a banker and to the methods of bankers, what he denounced, is frankly not at the level of the debate that we want to lead here. I think it's pathetic. It is to put at stake the man, whom you know, for having sat with him for a long time in the Finance Committee. You know how honest and ethical he is, and you say that on the basis of a lie, that is, by saying that investment is decreasing. This is an important point because we are at the very heart of your argumentation and of your way of doing politics, which is deeply unpleasant. Hold on to the bottom, don't lie! Respect the politicians, please! Especially those you know. A little dignity in the debate, please!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u29	Now, Mr. Vanden Burre, I would like you to tell me what will be the evolution of railway operations for SNCB between 2020 and 2021. What's the amount? Is that an increase? A decrease? You're telling me it's increasing. I say that it decreases on the basis of the budget tables. You say I'm lying. I'm saying you're the one lying. What's your number? I have a number. What's yours?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u30	I said it earlier. This is an increase of some 300 million additional with a joint compensation of 264 million at the end of 2020. And $100 million was added for next year, via the Boost plan that was announced earlier this week, in addition to the rest on staffing. That's the most important thing. That's all I wanted to say. So, we're not saying that the means are going down and that it's down.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u31	After the blur, the facts! I wasn't talking about investments, I'm going to go there after. I was talking about the railway operation for SNCB. I didn't talk about 2020, I talked about the evolution between 2020 and 2021, so 2021 compared to 2020. We have -287 million in the budget tables. It's not an increase. The climate is also a concern for ecologists and, more specifically, Mrs Khattabi. The savings are 2.7 million for the Energy Administration, – 8% for the Climate Change Department. The Federal Institute for Sustainable Development saves €16 million. The development cooperation which concerns Ms Kitir announces the target of 0.7%, the famous objective of cooperation which will be achieved by 2030. What is the evolution in 2021? In 2018, it was 0.43% and in 2021, it was 0.41%. The absolute amount is also decreasing. It can be proud that in 2020, 0.46% was achieved, but not because the amount increased. The amount has decreased, but the denominator of gross national income has declined sharply in 2020. This allows the ratio to increase artificially. On the other hand, at the foreign affairs level, the good news is that we are going to have VIP lounges at Brussels airport. We're going to go from 402,000 to 876,000 euros. For VIP lounges at Brussels airport, obviously there are ways! My fourth observation relates to the defence for which the government has money. The liquidation appropriations, in any case, were multiplied by 3.5 times the previous years. You are going to say that it is the policy of the former government that is reflected here in the liquidation appropriations, but it is not that this government is calling into question the budgets committed for armaments or the major options of the former government: wars abroad are not called into question, the purchase of the F-35s is not called into question, the nuclear weapons in Kleine-Brogel are not called into question, the very possibility of using nuclear weapons on our F-35s is not called into question, the refusal to sign the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty is not called into question. All submissions to NATO diktates, including budget submissions, are not called into question. Here, there is no difference with the Greens and the Socialists when they sit in the government or when they are not part of it. We could even talk about the khaki Greens in this case, about our ecologist friends. The fifth observation concerns social security. We're balancing her, but she's still in danger. This begins with the acceptance of poverty, when the government says it will increase benefits "to" the poverty line. This is even below what the Swede promised, which, of course, sought to reach this poverty line, which she did not do. Georges de Kerchove, of the ATD Fourth World movement, recently declared: "My God, the commitment is weak and vague, a real artistic blur!" With the expected increase, we are therefore far from reaching the poverty line. To mask this gap, the government uses indexation, adaptation to well-being, to try to inflate the numbers somewhat. I come to the lack of individualization of rights. Yet this is a great slogan from the left! It is said that this is the end of the price of love, but here, too, Georges de Kerchove explains that the expression "the price of love" is already used by anti-poverty associations to denounce discrimination against social beneficiaries. He adds: "You remove this price, but only for people with disabilities. But then, why should other recipients continue to pay this price of love and remain second-rate citizens?" Clearly, the unemployed and the unemployed are not entitled to the price of love. We're probably afraid their hearts will bleed. As far as the long-term sick are concerned, we are in the continuation of the former government. We still want to save 200 million euros. However, the Swedish woman showed it, it did not work. A study carried out by KUL and ULB confirms this: in only 13% of trajectories, workers return to their former employer. As the unions point out, it is actually a machine for layoff. As for the 67-year-old pension, nothing changes. Minister Lalieux said she wanted to democratize the second pillar. I didn't think I'd ever hear someone talk about democratization to talk about privatization in the pension system. There is then this famous increase in the minimum pension. Indeed, as Mr Hedebouw said earlier, the mobilisation, with 180,000 signatures, made it possible to put this item on the political agenda, but, unfortunately, the result is rather disappointing because there is a succession of deceptions about the objective of having 1,500 euros net now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u32	Mr Van Hees, in view of the plan planned by Daniel Bacquelaine, we came to this 1,500 euros. So, don't come here to tell me some bullshit! It was already programmed while allowing the necessary time for its realization, since it obviously requires an annual evolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u33	Mr Piedboeuf, I thank you for your report because it confirms exactly the thesis that I was going to explain. Mr Bacquelaine did say that granting a pension of EUR 1,500 was not a problem, that it was enough to wait and that, with inflation doing its job, those EUR 1,500 would be achieved. That is what this government is actually doing. This government has learned the lesson from Bacquelaine philosophy. The first deception, I just said, is that it's not for now but for 2024. Today's EUR 1 450 in 2024 will be worth only EUR 1 365. The second deceit is that you're going to go towards 1,500 net euros but you can't do it. The third deception is that you are announcing a minimum pension increase of 11%. But this is not even enough to reach 1,500 euros gross. The fourth deception is that in order to reach 1,580 euros gross, you have to rely on four wellness increases and three indexations. And that's what I used in my notes from Mr Bacquelaine's remarks. Mr Piedboeuf, this confirms that the Bacquelaine option is being followed by this government. Fifth deception: it is only for people who have a career of 45 years. Nine out of ten women will not be entitled to it. Mr. Although De Croo has written a book on the century of women, I fear that with your politics, it will be the century of poor women because nine out of ten women will not be entitled to it. The question of pension taxation: are we discussing gross or net pensions? Do you know how much tax you pay on a pension? From 1,260 euros! Do you find that normal? And out of a gross pension of 1,580 euros, we pay 130 euros of taxes. However, the government had the opportunity to review this tax on small pensions and, in particular, to remove what the tax shift, in 2015, had planned for 2020, that is to say for this year! This year, there is a tax increase of 400 euros per year for pensioners, because Sweden planned to reduce the tax reduction on pensions and replacement income by 400 euros in 2020. You could go back to this measure to make it easier to get to the 1,500 net euros. But you have not, and we therefore remain in this logic of discrimination against pensioners, because that is the philosophy of the tax shift: an asset reform. Pensioners are not an asset. They're not entitled to the tax shift. As a result, we will penalize them in this way. Imagine philosophy! Pensioners have worked their entire lives, but they are not active and therefore are not entitled to benefit from the measures. Health care is one of the few areas not sacrificed by the government. The envelope for 2021 is quite important, but the needs are immense, all the more so with the crisis of the coronavirus. The increases of 2021 reflect the achievements of the 2020 struggle, that is, the White Bouse Fund that the PTB voted for on the basis of the struggle of nurses, the July agreement (the outcome of the struggle) and the budget for mental health. These three measures that you are taking forward were acquired. The standard of growth of 2.5% will be totally insufficient in relation to needs, On this subject, see the KCE report today: compared to neighbouring countries, in Belgium, the personal contributions of citizens are by far the most important. We are 19%, while in France it is 9%; in the Netherlands it is 11%; in Germany it is 12.5%. So that will not be enough. I miss time, but I could also talk about the false measure to charge the Big Pharma, or the catastrophic situation of hospitals. Above all, the financing of social security. Because by blocking wages and increasing social gifts to employers, with reductions in so-called employer contributions reaching billions and billions, and which have been further increased by the tax shift, we will not be able to finance social security properly. And this government does not regulate it. This government extends balance funding beyond 2020, but there is no guarantee. This government has refused to provide a long-term guarantee. Will the concept of social security accountability, which comes from the reform of Sweden, be removed or not? This government refuses. We've gone wrong. Sixth observation: the bulk of tax revenue comes from the world of work. If we see the overall figures, relative to the total federal tax revenues, the population accounts for 86% of the expenses. The rest, corporate tax and the tiny tax on securities accounts, is the remainder. It's obviously not a big deal. Those with the widest shoulders do not contribute. As I said earlier, the biggest piece of new revenue is unfair taxes on consumption: 750 million euros (3/4 billion VAT and excise taxes). The tobacco tax is a symbol somewhere. When you increase the excise duty on tobacco, it's on rolling tobacco and cigarettes, but not on cigars. If we wanted to give class content to a tax policy, we wouldn't have done better. Now it's the order of the symbol, but it's still obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u34	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u35	Mr. Laaouej, could you think a little lower? Or ask for the floor. Otherwise, it's a count of my speaking time. When you have comments to make, ask for the floor. Mr President, will I have more time to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u36	Your speaking time is almost exhausted. You still have a few minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u37	Mr. President, I have my chronometer. I've got three more minutes. The government is pursuing its policy of tax gifts to capital: the professional discount exemptions that we talked about yesterday. Today, this amounts to EUR 3.98 billion. An impressive amount. It is a system by which the employer collects tax on his worker's salary to pay it to the tax, but he keeps a large part of it for himself. This aberrant system has developed more and more with previous governments. I thought the Vivaldi was going to break with this bad practice, but we're adding it again. Then there's the fake tax on big fortunes. And here, again, we have an announcement effect. Mr Magnette said there would be a real tax on wealth: that's not true! That we were going to remove bank secrecy: that's not true! That we were going to make a cadastre of fortunes: that's not true! When it turned out that it was a simple copy-paste of taxes on the Michel government's securities accounts, Mr. Magnette even said that it was not institutionally possible to touch the real estate assets. Which was wrong, too. Finally, as Mr Piedboeuf said earlier, it is the "resurrection" of the government's account-title tax, Michel, a very right-wing government, including the N-VA and the Liberals. It's copy-paste of what a right-wing government has done. We do not touch the greatest fortunes, since these - Colruyt, Spoelberch, Huts, Coucke - do not have their fortunes via securities accounts, but via nominal shares. I asked the Minister of Finance 15 or 20 times, and today I asked Minister Mathei again, and I never have an answer: why don't we touch the wider shoulders with this tax that is supposed to touch the wider shoulders? But thanks to the Council of State, it is now known that it is not a question of touching the widest shoulders since the government had to remove this from the explanatory memorandum after the Council of State considered it to be a false advertisement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u38	Mr Van Hees, may I ask you to conclude? You have one minute of speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u39	Mr President, nothing prevents you from giving me a few more minutes!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u40	You have another minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u41	It's a shame to deprive you of what I wanted to explain. I wanted to talk to you about tax evasion and investments. Since I have to choose, I will address the investment issue. As far as investments are concerned, the needs are enormous. I won't come back, but just Charles Michel's strategic package showed investments of between 144 and 155 billion euros for the 2030 deadline. What is in this government's investments? We have fog: 91 times the word investment in the government declaration; a 2030 target that tells us that public investment will reach 4% of GDP. Mr. Magnette says we're going to invest 10, 15, 20 billion a year. The government statement talks about an investment envelope and recovery of €4.7 billion. When I ask Secretary of State De Bleeker for details, she sends it to me and what do we see? That there is no investment! There are provisional measures corona, social tariff for electricity, CPAS funds, SNCB allowances for 2020 (even not for 2021). For investments, there is nothing other than the billion euros that is in the interdepartmental provision. This billion will cover the entire legislature since there are 200 million in 2021, 400 million, 300 million, 100 million to liquidate. There is only one billion euros left that is not even paid by the government. They say it will be drawn from the funds we will receive from Europe. How much money will this government put in for investments? Zero euro! Apart from Mr Gilkinet's "Plan Boost", which we don't even know if he's a part of it or not... I asked the question, but I didn't get an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u42	Mr. Van Hees, you're under arrest. Your speaking time is now exhausted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u43	Mr Van Hees, you have started and ended with a story in which you say that this government is simply the continuation of the Swedish coalition. You don't think there'd be much of a rupture. Those were your words. I just want to point out that the N-VA has tabled 16 amendments to this budget. Actually, there were a lot more, but we've narrowed down the number, considering the corona situation. We have amendments on Justice, Police, Firefighters, Migration, Employment Policy, Tax Revenue, Defence, Cabinet Credits, Monarchy and a whole range of other topics. We've got 16. I notice you have five. So it seems to me that you may be a little closer to this government than we are.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u44	Thank you, Mr Loones, for this learning! We learn it every day in Parliament. The degree of opposition of a parliamentary group is, in your opinion, measured by the number of amendments introduced. I find it interesting as a theory! What a demonstration to say that Vivaldi is not the continuation of Swedish. Is that all you found to dismantle that thesis? That's a little weak argument, Mr. Loones.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u45	Mr President, it is always nice to be able to speak after a colleague of the PVDA, who puts the tips on the i and makes it clear that this is not a leftist coalition that has been running the country since 1 October. It is a coalition government where no one fully puts their stamp on it, like all coalition governments where compromises are made. Maybe this isn't a love marriage. It's a marriage of convenience. Dear colleagues of the N-VA, love marriages can also run on the rocks, as we noticed with your flag flight in December 2018. In the last week before Christmas, we are meeting here in restricted occupation to conduct the budget debate. Of course, this is not optimal, but I would like to pay tribute, not only to the Secretary of State and her cabinet, but to all the officials who put that work in order in a very short time. If I understand correctly, some people had doubts as to whether they should not be working with provisional twelfths. I would ask, not to give your approval to the budget itself, but to express your appreciation for all those who have worked on it, and to give a small applause to the Secretary of State and her team. For about two years there was no full government and therefore, there is also a great responsibility, not a real budget, especially for 2019. Unfortunately, we have had to use the system of provisional twelfths through your flag flight, through the very lengthy negotiations, in which everyone has a piece of responsibility. However, I would like to express my personal appreciation for Egbert Lachaert, who not only brought the parties to the table, but also ensured that this country finally has a government and that we have also been able to give that government the confidence here. During this long period, we in Parliament have also seen legislative proposals bubbling up, which were actually not budgetaryly justified. It is therefore a good thing that we now have a real budget. A real budget is a clear framework with objectives for revenue and expenditure. We're no longer out of control. Never before have so many people lost their jobs temporarily in our country and so many people were temporarily unemployed. Never before did so many self-employed people have to close their doors. The impact of the current crisis is enormous in the field of public health. Personally, however, I learned a great deal during that period and noticed that it is not enough in politics to adopt laws and budgets, but that they also need to be implemented. I am pleased that I have been able to play a part with colleagues as well as with the opposition to the implementation of the additional public health budgets. That's important. We know that the budgetary challenges will be enormous. We are therefore not blind to the effects of the current health crisis and the difficult budgetary situation in which we find ourselves. Colleagues, 18 March 2020 was announced the first lockdown in our country. We're good now nine months later. Non-essential shops and the catering industry were locked up; homework and stay home were introduced and temporary unemployment had to avoid thousands of naked layoffs, so that tens of thousands of countrymen instead of a green or white Christmas would not have to celebrate a black Christmas. Several aid measures, such as the right of bridging and the bank guarantee, were taken. Yesterday, the President of the National Bank of Belgium pointed out that the impact of the current crisis was three times greater than the 2008 financial crisis. The previous speakers have already pointed out that economic activity declined by almost 7% in 2020. Moreover, many other challenges, such as the approaching Brexit, the climate crisis, geopolitical unrest, but also the question of how we can ensure that pensions remain affordable in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot avoid it. The challenge is huge. It is normal for the opposition to question the capacity of the current government to lay the foundations of a good recovery and revival policy with its project. I am the last to claim that this is a perfect budget. Measures have been taken during the current crisis and the choice has been made to take the shock first of all through wide interventions, in order to keep our economic system stable. These crisis measures cost us a lot of money, we cannot be blind to that. In times of crisis, however, decisions must be taken quickly. Afterwards, we're all smarter and we know better, I've seen that before in my long career. It was a conscious choice not to leave anyone behind in this crisis before we put our shoulders together under reconstruction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u46	Mr Leysen, Mr Vermeersch wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u47	Mr Leysen, the position of a party can change greatly if it is in a government. I remember the film by then group leader Vicent Van Quickenborne who was criticizing sintering laa politics with a box of Dash. Today we saw in the newspaper a picture of the Prime Minister with Saint Nicholas under the title: "Government-De Croo under fire for sintering Klaa politics." I would like to make three points. Firstly, you will find EUR 1 billion but spend EUR 2 billion. Secondly, the public debt is now 60%, with liberals who have been in all governments for 20 years. Thirdly, the key step will cost our budget a great deal more money. I have already described this in my intervention. Eventually, not the Greens but the Liberals burned their programme ritual in order to win the premiership. After the impact tax and the increase in excise duties, you should take tax after tax. Where is the liberal promise of no new taxes? Where is the liberal promise of no increase in public property? Where is the liberal promise not to carry out the core exit?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u48	No one has the monopoly on the word "Sinterklaas." We can talk about "Black Piet," which is more delicate. Essentially, what happened happened. We need to rebuild now. That rebound needs to be designed and supervised. That is the next major task of this government. The spending drift is indeed great in our political system, not least in the aftermath of this crisis. The politically responsible colleagues know that it is not easy to resist this. The members of the Flemish Government know that the budget deficit has also been multiplied. Then we speak of ten times. For example, in the case of miners' pensions and the enthusiasm surrounding the VAT reduction on washing powders and other soaps, Parliament's spending drive is seen. This can also be seen in the Länder. Those who know better, especially after the facts, have to say it. This spontaneous wave of expenditure in Parliament, when one measure was adopted after another, without even considering or asking what the budgetary consequences are, is partly a collective responsibility. The parties that have never taken responsibilities have it easy. "Drift" means in English the slipping away of the preset road. For some it seems to have another meaning, specific to the Dutch word "drift," the irresistible urge to spend money. We, as liberals, certainly want to put a stop to this. Mr Claude Allègre, a socialist minister under Mitterrand, said that the government must be strong, slim and flexible. We all know how difficult it is, even within organisations, to revisit, question and abolish something. You are talking about sinterklaa policy... in committee you have already referred to the Dash VAT reduction, which has now died quietly on the road between the committee and the plenum, and I am pleased about that. The good thing is that the word spending review occurs repeatedly in the coalition agreement. This means, in fact, spending shifts and, if necessary, the need to remove certain expenditure and sometimes the taxes associated with it for its financing. You can, and I must thank you all for that. We have done so in a very modest way by abolishing excise duties and all the administrative work and the burden on the public authorities to collect them. So it's possible. We must also be vigilant about the spending drive that is inherent in this health crisis. That spending drift is no excuse not to change the gun in all areas, as soon as the end of the health crisis comes into sight. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to look a little further at the foundations of the recovery that we all want to achieve together. We cannot ignore the fact that government revenue is lower because of the crisis. There is no question of underestimating social security expenditure either. In view of the extensive explanations by the various government partners, in particular of my valued political hug contact, Benoît Piedboeuf, I will confine myself to three themes which we, as liberals, believe we should make the difference in the following years. Firstly, a well thought-out and targeted re-launch policy. This is initially a catch-up on public investment, but it will need to be combined with a number of structural reforms of our labour market to effectively have a multiplier effect in the private sector. We want to drive our society fully towards prosperity creation, innovation, digitalisation and responsible climate policy. We also want to ensure more agility to respond to future developments and challenges. The government is giving a first boost to the re-launch policy. For example, EUR 1 billion has been committed to re-investment in order to bring public infrastructure back to an acceptable level. With 1.6 % of GDP in public infrastructure, Belgium is one of the worst scoring EU countries. EUR 500 million goes to the Transformation Fund at the FPIM and EUR 500 million goes to the digitisation of our economy. In addition, by the end of April, in consultation with the Länder, Secretary of State Dermine will present a plan for our country to claim funding from the European Commission's European recovery programme, the so-called Recovery and Resilience Facility. EUR 5.5 billion investment budget is the amount that the European Union is willing to allocate to make our country healthy and also to make it financially healthy, I hope. A good relance policy not only ensures that people can stay at work and that we maintain purchasing power, but also ensures that companies create additional jobs. That's the essence. That is why the conditions laid down in the EU programme on structural reforms are so essential. They are, moreover, the cornerstone of the government's coalition agreement, and they are essential for us as a liberal party. Increasing the level of activity and the ease of doing business are points set out in the EU reform programme. It is the core tasks on which I hope this Parliament will be able to debate in detail. That is why we must continue to pursue structural reforms in 2021 that support the resilience of businesses. Putting down this relaunch and resilience plan for EU funding is a first step, but certainly not an end. It is rather a first threshold, which we must cross in good time. Useful, but not enough. I don't mean that it's just about money. It is about structures, about commitment, about attitude, about forward-looking social dialogue. In recent months, many companies have shown how they have adapted to changing market conditions and social conditions. We must admit that there will be winners and losers on the economic field. There will be start-ups and certain companies will leave the playing field. That is why it is important that we focus on supporting companies by retaining support measures for structurally healthy companies. We don't want Zombie companies. A good example of this is the legislation on the reconstruction reserve, which was adopted almost unanimously, with the exception of the PVDA, which is normal, and, to my surprise, of DéFI, which has abstained. This is a very important measure which, in addition to its financial impact, sends an important message, namely that this government wants to support those entrepreneurs who are suffering from the corona virus but are still going for further investment. Worked out on the initiative of the previous Finance Minister and finally adopted as a legislative proposal by a broad majority, a temporary exemption from corporate taxes is granted to companies that maintain their employment, that continue to invest and that keep their funds within the company in order to increase their solvency. That's an example. Entrepreneurly friendly measures include the extension of the increased investment deduction for enterprises and the extension of the recruitment scheme for the first employees. Last but not least, we must not forget the measures that have been taken and are being taken for our self-employed. They are essential to our social system. These may be those who are most committed to entrepreneurship and have the greatest willingness to take risks in their DNA. The government will eliminate the unfair differences between the status of employed and self-employed persons. Let us be honest, we have no money for anyone and no one has spared. This is a system in which the next few years that difference is structurally eliminated, step by step. We must be realistic. The method of calculation is similar, but the effect will feel step by step. That catch-up maneuver can take place at 2.65 % per year. Prime Minister, birth leave for self-employed workers is being increased from 10 to 20 days. You too are a great advocate of a better division of roles within families. That doesn't apply to me anymore. At European level, too, it was necessary for our country to make a catch-up here. If we want to keep as many people working in enterprises as possible and keep our social security at a high level, the real challenge of this government is to modernise the labour market. Liberals will be very vigilant in ensuring that this progress is made. Ultimately, this is the ultimate way to keep the budget under control: to get as many people working and keeping as many people as possible. This will be essential if we are to continue to provide good social security for all citizens, because that is what makes our country so strong. We also invest heavily in health care. That's important. The aim is to mobilise resources for the people on the ground. I have been involved in the implementation of the proposal to take account of self-employed care at home, which has an important role to play. We must also have the courage to think about the substance, it is not just a penny business. Applause for the care is nice, budgets are beautiful, but the most important thing is that the resources are there and that they are also in favour, not of all intermediaries, but of the people on the premises. We must also find and motivate the right people. As I have already said, we should not be stuck in a spending drift, but we should opt for a spending shift: a proper allocation of resources, where we achieve efficiency gains and the resources are well managed, and tomorrow we will end up with those on the ground even more than yesterday. Crisis policy must always be temporary and targeted. The government is now coming up with crisis measures that meet today's urgent need. That should never be an excuse to leave the government crane permanently open afterwards. We must be aware that today's debts are tomorrow's taxes. We Liberals are on the clear ambition and a clear path to return to a healthy society and a sound budget after the defined crisis policy. We are accused of under-examining budgetary discipline, of under-examining fiscal justice and of under-focusing on targeted savings. I would like to come back to that. Effectively, the government has agreed to achieve a minimum threshold of fiscal effort relative to GDP. It can be increased according to economic growth; so let us work on that growth. You have clearly seen that we have to maintain the difficult balance between budgetary discipline on the one hand and expenditure on economic growth on the other, and we count on both the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for the Budget on the other. The people are certainly aware that we are spending a lot of money and are increasingly asking who will pay for all this. We must act courageously, because we not only want to restore economic growth, we want to speed it up. In this way, we will be able to reduce our debt and make the necessary budgetary efforts. However, our party remains vigilant: support must always be targeted. During the first wave, the government was unable to differentiate and the second wave caught the new government in speed. If there is a third wave, we must have learned from the previous measures. I would also like to say a few words about the tax on securities, about which so much is said. I'm not afraid of the word "taxes." Companies want to make a profit. They want their income to go beyond spending and make a profit. I would like them to be able to pay sufficient income taxes. With the introduction of the securities tax, we are opting for a measure along the lines of our commitments in the Swedish Government, which we are putting in a new rug. A balance must be sought: the effort required must be feasible but also human, with the tax being low enough to prevent circumvention behaviour and not to target the middle class. In this context, I would point out that the government does not impose any additional taxes in the form of capital taxes or taxes on rental income. I look forward to the work that the Minister of Finance will do, an exercise for simplified and more transparent taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u49	Mr Leysen, I would like to interrupt you for a moment, because as a liberal, you are dealing specifically with the securities tax. You underline that the impact tax will not affect the middle class. Of course, that's not true. The securities tax, as conceived by the previous government, did not, because it was only about natural persons. The new tax does apply to the large pension funds, to the large insurance companies offering branch 23 products. The branch 23 products are held, not by the very large capitals, but by the middle class, which invests, for example, 10,000 euros in a branch 23 product. I'm not gonna suck that out of my mind. This is literally an example in the opinion of the Council of State on securities tax and is also literally confirmed in that opinion by the minister's staff. So don't sell nonsense that the majority doesn't introduce taxes or that the taxes introduced don't affect the middle class, because they do.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u50	Mr Leysen, would you please answer that and conclude your speech?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u51	I would like to add to Mr Donné's speech that the majority parties are indeed making it appear as if the impact tax would affect the greatest potential. However, it is indeed a burden on the middle class. The people with an art collection of 10 million euros will not be charged in any way. The tax, for example, puts pressure on the budgets of many organisations and governments. Many organisations and governments have securities accounts of more than 1 million euros, especially in Flanders. They will therefore be subject to additional taxation. If they want to keep their budget tight, they will have to look for additional funding, new revenue and taxes. Those taxes end up on the middle class hood as always. For example, the effect of this tax is indirectly effectively borne by the middle class. In the meantime, a solution was indeed found for the rental income. However, the Minister made it very clear in the Committee on Finance and Budget that this solution is not a preliminaries solution to his broad fiscal reform. The CD&V and sp.a have deleted the passage that there would be no comprehensive reform before 2024 in the coalition agreement. The Liberals have stated that this broad tax reform should actually be a work for the next government. Will this comprehensive fiscal reform be implemented in this legislature, or is that a work for the next government? Can you clarify that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u52	Let me make it clear that I think that a healthy reform of taxation, simpler and with less high rates and all kinds of barracks, is a good idea. It is up to the government and the minister to see what he can do and how he can achieve consensus. That reform will come. Sooner or later there will have to be reform, but it is complex. With regard to this continuation of something that our friends of N-VA have introduced in the previous government, the important thing for us is that anyone who has assets and invests in companies is not affected. In the end, we are going to mobilise all savings. The government will probably have to consider whether other initiatives are possible. By the way, we have raised the limit for this security tax. I decide. It was a huge effort to get the budget completed in time, with important European procedures to be followed. I am pleased that European supervision will continue to exist. Twitching about the details is not the essence, because the question is, above all, whether we are on the right track. We have a budget and budgetary tables. It could all be better, I totally agree. We take the observations of the European Commission and the Court of Auditors to heart. I just note that both bodies were aware of the exceptional situation in which this budget was drawn up. The foundations of a good relay policy are laid by this government. The road will be long, but it is clear that this government is doing what it needs to do, namely to set up a broader project with a clear long-term vision to guide us not only through this crisis, but also to offer a future to those who will follow us and to the next generation. We are counting on the resilience of businesses and citizens to make this happen. The government's mission is to give it its full support by implementing the necessary and necessary reforms in the labour market. This will be the basis for safeguarding the interests of future generations in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u53	Mr President, I find it pleasing if everyone can talk and build up their speeches. A budget debate is always interesting, because everyone has their own style. One talks more about figures and statistics, other speakers come up with vague slogans and principles, but what always stands out is that each group uses the budget debate to highlight a number of trophies: what has been brought into the negotiations? CD&V talked for a long time about helping families and associations, the ecologists talked about climate and investment in mobility, the socialists talked about extra social spending, but in your speech, Mr Leysen, I looked for what exactly is the trophy. I've really been looking for what trophy you've been trying to put into the market. You talked a lot about the securities tax, but also about the future. You didn't say what the Open Vld has brought in and acquired, but you talked about what you still hope to achieve in the future. You will speak of labour market reforms as a matter of priority. For the Open Vld, it is crucial that labour market reforms are introduced. All possible parties say what they have already achieved effectively, while you say in your own message of 24 November that labour market reforms need to be introduced: "Let us start discussions on this without delay." The discussions on this matter have not even started yet. Mr De Roover immediately refers to the expression 'without delay'. "Unfortunately" has a great political history in the Chamber. Once upon a time, the division of Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde would also take place without delay. It is a pity that the Prime Minister has just left, because the split of Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde did not happen without delay, and that was even the reason for the Prime Minister to pull the plug from the government and leave that team. However, you want to start discussions on labour market reforms without delay. If, on the other hand, one were to give the floor to Minister Dermagne or to the PS, they would not have to talk about talks to be started without delay. They would point to the leftist trophies they have brought in in the coalition agreement. They are already on paper and have already been acquired. This is, of course, about the sharp increase in unemployment benefits, the increase in living wages, the EUR 10 premium for people who were unemployed for more than 52 days in the corona period. If one asks Ecolo, they can also mention such things, such as the degressivity that will not decrease. Those are all trophies the PS has in the closet. The left-wing parties have all the trophies in the cupboard and bring that to Parliament with a big show and with a lot of listening. The copper is shined up nicely and it all looks beautiful. But you, Mr Leysen, are talking about the future and you hope that, when the relay package comes, you will perhaps achieve some kind of'reform'. Last but not least, you continue to refer to the Flemish budget in every speech. How dare you? How dare you compare the Flemish budget with this federal budget? Every government in this country has a huge problem. We all have to spend a lot, we all have deficits, but the structural deficit in Flanders will amount to EUR 2 billion on a budget of around EUR 40 billion. Wallonia is smaller, but the deficit will increase by more than double next year. I note that Wallonia's deficit is four times ten years. I note that Wallonia's public debt will be 189 per cent at the end of the legislative term. And then here you pretend the problem lies in Flanders. Mr Leysen, this debate deserves a little more serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u54	Mr President, each Member and each group will obviously raise in the budget what they think is most relevant in terms of their priorities. At the same time, none of us failed to recall that this budget was balanced, in the difficult circumstances we know. I would remind you that we have a negative financing balance of EUR 24 billion. It's not nothing! In spite of this, we manage to take steps to enable a wide range of economic actors in our society to overcome the crisis. We talked about workers, temporary unemployed people, sick people. But we have also, all of us, talked about the self-employed and the companies. All the groups combined have done so. But of course, Mr Loones' binary logic would like to try to find divisions, and a lack of homogeneity within Vivaldi. I repeat that his party decided to leave the Michel government and that he finally made it go down. On the ground of lack of political stability and lack of cohesion, indeed, you can learn the lesson. You've become a master in this art! For the rest, of course, we could also have developed the measures taken in support of the economic fabric to a large extent. Mr. Piedboeuf did. He spoke of the replenishment reserve aimed at spreading taxation on the future profits of companies, in order to already reflect on when they will try to climb the slope. It's concrete. It's not you who did it, it's this government. Of course, we would have liked things to be a little more focused on SMEs, but the political agreement is that. I turn to the investment deduction and the extension of the increased rate of the investment deduction for SMEs. We know how important the fabric of SMEs is for Flanders, in particular. It's also concrete, breath. For the rest, I'll tell you one thing. Supporting domestic demand and people's disposable income is also good for the economy and businesses. What companies produce, someone needs to consume and buy it. You can obviously spend your time trying to find divisions where there are none. We are here in the presence of a balanced budget. The social beneficiaries have their share. It contains support for pensioners, workers and the economic world. I repeat: this budget is our success and your failure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u55	I look to the future as an entrepreneur, but I don't have a trophy cabinet, because I don't care. Mr Loones, the Freudian lapsus about your past makes me doubt whether you are serious when talking about people with a EUR 1 million securities account and an art collection of EUR 10 million to be taxed. Which one are you in? I'm also tired of the show you always sell, you actually talk tout court a lot. You lecture people here because as an ex-minister you have only used employees for four months. For someone who's been a minister for four weeks, four months has actually been a long time. It is of course very generous of you not to make it four years, except when you would need a trauma psychologist to process the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u56	I understand that this is a slightly personal fact, and I will give you the floor in a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u57	I, too, made my presentation earlier, and I did not make any bells vibrate about things that we would personally have obtained in a difficult discussion. Why? Because, if you listened carefully, you will have heard that I was pleased with all the things that the government was going to work on, all the measures that were going to be taken, and everything that has been done to help SMEs (we have still mentioned the figures today). Why don't we have fun getting out of the trophies? Because we're serious people! We do the work, in a situation that is not simple. We do not welcome the situation, because we had almost achieved balance and debt reduction, and today we are once again confronted with a large deficit and debt that has increased at once. We're just doing the job seriously. And while we were doing a good job, you, for your part, did a tactical calculation in relation to your Flemish opponent, the Vlaams Belang, and you said that by doing the "Marrakech" hit, you were going to win the electorate and it would work. But for once, your president – who is a good tactician – made a mistake. You then left by blowing up the government and we continued to work. While we were doing good work together, you ran away. The result of the races: today we have to catch up all the time lost during the day-to-day business. In addition, your tactical error has now placed you outside the government. I understand it bothers you, and it's normal. On the other hand, in the face of a serious situation, we are doing what is to be done, even if it is a minimum service. We will do better when resources are made available, but despite the situation, we are happy to present this draft budget and this programme law. We're not going to shake dolls, that's not necessary. We just do the job, that's all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u58	To conclude this debate, I give the floor to Mr Loones.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u59	Mr President, I would just like to point out that we are talking here about facts, figures and details of the budgetary tables, but that you seem to prefer to talk about the Marrakesh Pact. That's your choice. After the Marrakesh Pact and the fall of the then government, elections could have been organized immediately, Mr Laaouej, but you did not dare to do so. Soit, that's the past. I don't want to talk about that anymore. I also find it interesting to see how the debate is going. Mr Laaouej is defending Mr Leysen in this debate. That's actually a good thing to see, because I've spoken up a little bit about it. Of course, there's a deal, but there's a balance in this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u60	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u61	Mr Laaouej, if you will allow me to speak, you will find me right. There is indeed a team spirit, or half a team spirit, in your government. You're right to stand up for each other. There is indeed a balance in the agreement. We have now seen that quite clearly. The balance in this government is: left the content, right the posts!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u62	Madam President, I would also like to ask for the floor for a personal statement, as a comment was made on the staff of former ministers. It is true, as Mr Leysen says, that I have been a short minister. Well, we are all paid with taxpayers' money. We are discussing the budget here all evening and perhaps another part of the night. It is not about our money, but it is about the money of people who work hard to contribute and who we put in the national pot through taxes. We are expected to be careful about this and to be economical. I take this task very seriously. Yes, I've been a minister and yes, the government has fallen. At that time, I was offered a retirement allowance of several tens of thousands of euros. I immediately refused it, which meant I had no pay for six months. The second thing that was offered to me as an ex-minister was that I could use two employees until there was another government. In concrete terms, this would have been done over a period of 16 months. I refused. I did use the system for a short period of three or four months for one employee. But I could use it for 16 months. I didn't. No pay, no retirement allowance, and a limited use of employees. I hope that all the former ministers of the Wilmès government can do the same, because they cannot use two employees for 16 months, they can do so for four years, until 2024. In the end, the best point here on the table is that we can change all that. We can delete all of that. We have tabled an amendment to that effect. That is also what we are voting on today. That's not radical. We'd love to tell you to quit altogether. I know that the green parties are thinking in that direction. But there are a lot of parties where that is not the case. I hear the MR is mostly bored with that. That party, of course, had a huge number of ministers, and it must now seek a solution. What we are putting on the table here is a compromise. We propose to take a next step in this exercise and to copy the system that has been in force for years in Flanders. Ex-Ministers would not be able to use two employees for a full term of office, but the whole would be limited to using one employee for two years. Then, Mr Leysen, please tell me who is voting against it. You are voting against it yourself, Mr Leysen! And then you're here on your high tower pretending that you have to teach me lessons. You, Mr Leysen, could now give your voice so that this system becomes structural immediately from day one. That, by the way, is what the Swedish Government has done. The Swedish government immediately started with a cut of 7% in the Cabinets. You add 25 %. You push the green button for that, Mr Leysen. Put your money where your mouth is . Prove you're serious. Our amendment will be put to the vote shortly. Cut into the employees' system. I call on all Members to do the same. And perhaps more importantly, because I know that you will not, I call on all ex-ministers to spare themselves what they are offered. That might be wiser.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been nineteen months since I took the oath here. So I'm still pretty new here. During that period we were not able to debate a full budget here in Parliament. Even the months or years before that I have been walking around here, up to that door, as an employee in Parliament. Even then, it was months ago that we had once again talked about a budget in the hemisphere. Together, that's over three years. It took more than three years before we could have another debate here on a full budget. After three years, we will vote on the full budget tomorrow or tomorrow. That is more than necessary, with an understatement: it is not that nothing has happened in those three years. We are now in the biggest crisis since the Second World War, with a political standstill in recent months. In recent years, therefore, we have been bound by the provisional twelfths. Fortunately, the formation of a new government has put an end to this political standstill. So we are going to vote on a full budget after more than three years. However, this budget is in a great deal of uncertainty. That makes sense, too. It has been said a lot here today and I have heard a lot of questions about it, but that uncertainty is, of course, the result of the global pandemic that has been affecting the world for more than nine months. The corona crisis has had a huge impact on each of us. Then we are talking about the boss of an event agency that organized one big party after another last year, but now has to survive from benefit to benefit. Just as well, we are talking about the many catering operators in our country, who will soon see for the first time on the holidays a room with only empty seats, or those who have been on temporary unemployment for months and are now more difficult and more difficult to survive. In the meantime, we can see that the group of vulnerable people has long been no longer a small group, but is growing. Today, we're all vulnerable. That is also our economy. The figures were all mentioned today. We are seeing an economic contraction of 7.5%, a budget deficit of 27 billion euros, an increase in debt by 20%. We all agree that these figures are inexplicable. However, they are the reality and show that we are in the midst of an economic crisis. Moreover, there are the lockdown measures, the many billions in support of the various governments in our country. They're needed, too. I hope we all agree that we need to support the affected sectors in order to reduce the damage somewhat, and that we do not let go of those who are struggling. However, I hear some complaining that the figures are no longer up-to-date. Mr Vermeersch said that the budget was already obsolete at the time it was tabled. Of course it is, that is the reality. We're in the middle of a crisis. Corona wasn't gone when the budget was drawn up. Also at the next budget discussion, which is likely to arrive soon, Corona will not suddenly disappear magically. So it will not be the last time we have a debate here on a budget, when the figures have already evolved; that seems inevitable to me. With our budget, we must, more than ever, achieve two important objectives. Firstly, we need to ensure that recovery is possible after the crisis, and secondly, we need to address the deficit that has been left behind. There has not been much balance, and we should not forget that. A former Secretary of Defense may have ordered planes, but the bill was passed on. In addition, the deficit of 2% is added. If we look at that, there is an incredible challenge for the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u64	Mrs. Depraetere, you spoke about the purchase file for the F-35. Of course, I do not need to remind you that your party colleague Dirk Van der Maelen was a fervent advocate of the cancellation of that purchase in this hemisphere. He didn't think it was necessary. He said the purchase of the F-35s is completely out of line. He wondered what that had to do with the Belgian Defence. A lot was told about it and very nice metaphors used. Dirk Van der Maelen compared the F-35 with the Fyra, the train with many defects, and asked if we needed that Fyra of the sky, who can put out champagne? Those are statements Dirk Van der Maelen made here in the hemisphere. Together with Ecolo and Green, you were also the party that led to more transparency, more democratic control and more debate. After all, we have not yet seen the full contract of Lockheed Martin. The population also has the right to know what is actually in the contract. After all, this is a huge increase in the budget, as you have just outlined. There is the corona crisis with a lot of social needs for an amount of EUR 12.5 billion. The F-35s are still in a test phase, but have already been purchased. So the costs and defects are running out. In the meantime, you also know that certain countries, such as Canada, have stopped the purchasing process. We therefore want to know once and for all, as the sp.a was also a strong supporter of discussing the contract and holding a democratic debate on whether or not to cancel the purchase. Perhaps we should have the debate now. I really want to insist that the sp.a also have the contract made public within the government, so that we can resume the debate on whether or not to cancel it. There are, after all, escape clauses, which we certainly need to look at. Here's what I'm wondering. The sp.a used to be for transparency. In fact, sp.a's election programme included the cancellation of the contract. So what is the party's position on that point? That is an important and pertinent question. The sp.a also opposed the fact that the F-35s had to be purchased at all. After all, the F-16s could continue to operate until 2040 provided an upgrade program is available. That's also what Dirk Van der Maelen said. So we are now basically acting as echoes for your partymate. We are now in opposition, but we remain consistent. So, Mrs Depraetere, I wonder what your position is on this matter. Will you make the contracts public? Can we have the democratic debate on this? I repeat that people have a right to know how the file will proceed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u65	Thank you, Mr De Vuyst, for your question. I am well aware of the file and of the statements made by Mr Van der Maelen. I have been able to follow this as an employee for a number of years. It is indeed a very interesting file. It is indeed no secret that as a party we were not in favour of purchasing the F-35s. We were not so much against the replacement of the fighter planes in themselves, but the F-35, the Fyra of the aircraft, would not have been our choice. Dirk Van der Maelen tried everything to avoid that purchase. We have also strongly opposed this in this House. The cancellation of the contract is, of course, a step further. We finally arrived at the moment when the devices were purchased. We would have preferred that to be different. Now you're talking about canceling the contract. As far as transparency is concerned, as a Member of Parliament at the Court of Auditors, you can request all documents relating to that contract. That is the right of every Member of this House. We have done the same with our group. Together with my colleague, Kris Verduyckt, I have gone into the details. That wasn't so obvious. It's very technical matter. I can only advise you to do the same. This also shows that it is not obvious to cancel a contract. There are huge costs involved. That is why I recommend that you do the same and make this assessment. As far as Canada is concerned, that country did get out of the contract. However, this is a completely different situation. Firstly, it is a procedure that took place years ago when there was no production of the F-35. They were also part of the development programme, and that is not the case for us. So there are a number of nuances to apply. When we talk about the debate on the budget, solving problems is more than simply postponing them. No one knows if there's a new crisis lurking around the corner. Then you pay the bill triple. The account of the reforms that have not taken place, the invoice bill that has been passed on and the account of a crisis that is coming to an end. We'd better not assume that something like this can't happen again. Take responsibility and see the problems that exist: that will now be our most important task. Now take the savings in care. It doesn't take a corona crisis to realize that these savings are not such a good idea. Some might have needed a crisis to see how flimsy the line is between vulnerable and not yet vulnerable in our society, or to see how our economy is moving very quickly towards a package economy and we urgently need to make the digital shift. I sometimes hear other parties today pretending to have gone wrong because of Corona, but of course those problems had been there for a long time. Some aspects may have been highlighted by the corona crisis, but these solutions will also have to be additional. It will not be enough to provide only solutions to corona-related problems. A number of clear political choices must also be made. Colleagues, economic growth and budgetary figures will probably be a little more positive next year than they are now, but one thing is certain: corona will not suddenly disappear magically on 1 January. The moment we get rid of these problems, not all the problems in society have been solved. We can sometimes nostalgicly look back at the situation a year ago, but that is not the situation we want to go back to. A number of reforms are needed. After all, this is not the first time that we have experienced an economic crisis. Ten years ago, after the banking crisis, a certain political choice was made, the choice to save. The motto was clear then: saving, saving, saving. If we look back on that, it was not the right recipe to tackle the financial crisis. On the contrary, it was a major mistake that was made throughout the European Union and not just here. We see what this pressure on efficiency has done now, for example with our concern. Having just enough beds is fantastic when everything is going well, but when things are going differently than planned, there is a problem. We are talking about people's lives, about beds, about ventilators, about hands around the bed that are missing. We can't make that mistake again. The people in our country more than ever need an investment boost instead of saving, saving, saving. On the contrary, we need to invest. We are not talking about an eternal hand above the head of government, but about a fair chance of survival after this crisis. Investing now is just the only way out of this crisis. I am therefore very pleased that these choices are made clear and are also visible. Besides, we're not the only country that's learned that expensive lesson. Look, for example, at Germany, the strictest accountant in Europe. They are also going to invest massively as a way out of this crisis. This choice translates into this budget, with commitment appropriations of EUR 1 billion for investment and EUR 500 million for a relay fund. This all fits within the government's choice to double public investment, from 2% to 4%. With the focus on climate, mobility and innovation, this strategy is also fully in line with what the European Commission is asking us to do, as she herself explained in the hearing. Colleagues, of course we do not invest in our economy for nothing. The return on these investments must, to some extent, go back to the people whom we have been asking so much of in the past. Of course, they must not be left empty-handed. This return is important to us, in the form of well-run public services and strong social protection. That is exactly what this budget is doing. For us, well-run public services at least mean enhanced health care. Caregivers are given better working conditions and a substantial wage increase. There's gonna be 4,500 extra hands on the bed. These are very important decisions in this budget. The care staff has moved from lockdown to lockdown. They must be adequately supported. Return also means investing in safety for us, because it is not an unnecessary luxury to feel safe, to have an agent in the vicinity and to know that someone will be effectively punished. We can say that, and it is a debate that has been going on here in Parliament for many years, but we must put a specific budget on the other side. That is what we are doing in this budget. In 2021, an additional 50 million will be allocated to the police and 125 million extra to the Justice Department.This is how we are making an important shift, with more agents on the streets and fewer agents remaining at their desks. Return in the form of strong social protection also means a higher pension for us. That debate has also been opened a few times today, but we quite believe that those who work their lives are entitled to a decent pension. We will not postpone that decision for ourselves. That would be easy. We are already starting the increase on 1 January. The Court of Auditors has quite rightly noted in its report that this increase has an impact on as many as 830,000 pensioners. Return in the form of strong social protection also means raising those lowest benefits for us. This measure will also start on 1 January. In addition to the choice to invest rather than to save, my group is in any case an important thread throughout this budget: greater security, strong public health and better social protection. Finally, a fair tax system is an essential part of a correct and fair fiscal policy. A number of colleagues have already spoken of a broad fiscal reform and fairer taxation. A fair tax system also means, for us, the approach of anyone who tries to escape the dance. Our group is therefore very pleased that the policy of former Secretary of State John Crombez is being taken back and that an ambitious action plan is being pursued in the fight against tax fraud. We live in difficult times. The corona crisis is strongly affecting our public health and our economy, but it is also affecting our budget. The current times are also uncertain, because the corona crisis is not over. Each budget estimate is obsolete. We are now in that reality. This morning I heard the Secretary of State on the radio say that budgetary control will obviously be needed soon. That seems to me to be the case. However, the present budget lays the foundation for the recovery of the coming months. We also live in hopeful times. There is light at the end of the tunnel, there is a vaccine coming, there is a plan ready and there is a government taking responsibility, even in difficult times. After three years, it was high time. Now we must move forward with a number of clear choices. In any case, we choose to invest in the economy, in the future, in public health, in greater safety, in better social protection and in a fair tax system. Since these are also our choices, my group strongly supports this budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u66	Mrs Depraetere, you just said that all Members of Parliament have the right to request the contract through the Court of Auditors. I started to doubt when you said that, but I remembered that during the discussion on the Defence Policy Paper, in which the F-35 was not mentioned, by the way, what could count as transparency, your colleague fell out of confession at one point and said that she had looked at the contract. All colleagues then looked at each other because they had done so, but had not received all the information. No Member could have looked at the entire contract, just certain clauses. So if you claim to know, can we know what this cancellation clause is or what it is about? What's the price of pulling us out of that purchase file now?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u67	I would like to reply because it is the same discussion that took place there. There is the contract itself, part of which is indeed classified. There has been no access to the entire contract for the time being, but there are a lot of studies around the Court of Auditors that do reveal some of these clauses. The exact amount isn't in there. I'm sure you can check that out. There is a great deal of information in that document which will enable us to draw up a great deal of the contract. It is up to the Army Purchasing Commission to disclose the information necessary for that purpose. I suppose that was the case during the previous legislature, that several people from the Defence Department could be asked to ask them additional questions about this. You are right, the contract itself is protected by a number of specific clauses. I haven't seen them myself, but you can ask for all the documents around them, and you can tell me an incredible deal about those clauses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u68	If we are calling for a debate on this, it is to see whether or not we can cancel the contract in the light of the technological shortcomings that have become apparent. We actually have a ground on which the contract can be cancelled if we compare other contracts. It is still in the test phase, so if the costs increase and the amount originally agreed is exceeded, we can also have a debate on whether the contract can still be cancelled. You're answering a little confusually. You also do not know the exact amount or order size of what that cancellation might mean. I therefore call on the government parties, just as they used to do in the opposition, to initiate the debate in full transparency. I would also like to reiterate my appeal to the Members of the Committee on Army Purchases to make this public, so that we can discuss it, for example, in the womb of the Defence Commission. I believe that the population is also entitled to this, especially since there is no support for the people for the F-35 devices that are now being purchased. Your colleague, Dirk Van der Maelen, has set the choices against each other: social protection, making pensions affordable, or investing in war equipment, in war aircraft that can also be loaded at a nuclear cost. I think it is useful and useful to have the debate again, especially since the sp.a is now in the majority with Green and Ecolo. You have something to say in the government, I hope, so I urge you to conduct the debate in full transparency, because there is really no support for the people for the purchase of these F-35 devices. I think you know that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u69	I would like to respond briefly. You know our position on that purchase. Apart from that, it may certainly be useful to debate this, but then I suggest that everyone looks at the documents they have access to effectively. We did that 18 months ago. The conclusions that can be drawn from this also speak for themselves. It is perhaps too naive to think that we can simply cancel those orders. I propose that everyone should use their right of access and that they should also look at those documents effectively before they are debated on the basis of a feeling. I think it would be better to do so on the basis of the correct information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u70	Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, two months after your government statement, you are presenting your first budget for the legislature. This budget and the accompanying policy notes must reflect the ambitious goals you set out in your government statement. It must be recognized, however, that they were relatively vague and ambiguous. Unfortunately, this is still the case, not only in the budget but also in the policy notes, and we have remained hungry in many respects. However, you have extenuating circumstances. In fact, first of all, because the previous government did not measure the extent and speed of the second wave of the health crisis or, in any case, did not dare to take the necessary measures. You were forced to devote most of your energy to managing this crisis. Faced with the failure of testing and tracing, you had to reconvene. Faced with the arrival of promising vaccines, you are doomed to succeed in this vaccination policy. All this requires time and energy. Another mitigating factor: the health crisis has upset all the parameters to be taken into account when drawing up a budget. We are swimming in full fog: budgetary standards are fundamentally revised, revenues are declining to a considerable extent but unknown, requirements are also increasing to a considerable extent and unknown... The exercise is difficult, if not impossible. We will not comment on this budget in detail, as the budgetary analysis process is, at this stage, too unreliable. Especially since the way we work through the inclusion of all the new policies in the interdepartmental provision does not allow us to have a clear view of the means envisaged, which seriously undermines the transparency of the budget, as we have pointed out on several occasions in committee. This is the frailty of the first decisions taken today. The efforts made in this budget also remain very hypothetical: employment rates, the fight against tax fraud, the amounts resulting from the increase in excise duties on tobacco or the transposition of the e-commerce directive. But what matters for the coming months is the responsiveness in crisis management and the horizon chosen for economic rebound. As we know, the health situation is changing the needs for health care, support for households that are deprived of their income, in whole or in part, in support of self-employed people and businesses. This support is essential if they are to be able to take part in the future. At the same time, the decline in economic activity has a significant impact on revenues, which further increases our deficits and debt. All of this is as far-reaching as it is difficult to measure. The key question remains: in this fog, are we going in the right direction? During your investiture debate, we told you that we supported you in a whole series of goals in the areas of justice, health, work, security and migration. But today we remain on our hunger about when and how. Because neither the budget nor the policy notes really made it clear. Many goals must be achieved, well beyond this Parliament. It is a good thing, of course, to see in the long term, but it is sorely lacking in intermediate objectives to be achieved in this Parliament. An employment rate target of 80% by 2030 is very good, but what is your target for 2024? The same applies to your target of 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, the public investment rate of 4% in 2030, the doubling of offshore wind capacity to 4 GW in 2030, or the doubling of rail freight transport volume by 2030. What objectives for 2024? It's like you want to prevent any assessment of your actions against your objectives before the end of the legislature! It is the opposite of the indispensable culture of evaluation and transparency that you also claim to want to promote. In order to achieve the objectives you have set yourself, the budgetary resources made available also remain unclear. We are looking forward to that clarification. You have had two and a half months to lift the doubts that are growing everywhere about your ability to meet the goals you have set for yourself. This is probably little in relation to the circumstances, but it is a lot in relation to the expectations of our citizens. You must, we must succeed in convincing that politics can change things, that it serves something, that its action can be effective. In the fog, there is probably a sharp light: the awareness of the EU. In the face of the crisis, a fiscal stimulus is needed through a flexible monetary policy of the Central Bank, the provision of resources from the European budget, the granting of loans by the EU and the easing of budgetary standards imposed on Member States. After years of often excessive rigour, it is more than an awareness, it is a real conversion that is both a real opportunity for our country, but also a huge responsibility for your government. This is a great opportunity, because it must enable a positive dynamic to be set in motion, an awareness of the need for large-scale investments, carriers and vectors of transition. The years of rigour and the political choices of the past have weighed heavily on investment and, in particular, on public investment in our country, when it is essential to respond to the changes we are facing: climate change, globalization, ageing and digital. This opportunity is also a huge responsibility, because the European budget package is probably not going to pass a second time. Your responsibility is not so much to take this train, but to use it with maximum efficiency. Money is still so rare in view of the needs that have increased considerably. It is not a question of using it to distribute gifts or give gifts to electoral clients. It is about making it a lever for addressing long-term challenges that we face in meeting the needs of the population, not only today, tomorrow but also the day after. It is not a question of increasing the cost of practice, as you do, or of some allowances, but of putting in place tools to increase the quality of health care, productivity and employment, the quality of our environment, and the stabilization of our climate. The aim is to select projects on the basis of the multiplier effects they generate rather than on the basis of a political-regional distribution. We believe it is important to give particular attention to the self-employed and SMEs in preparing for the recovery. They represent a considerable number of jobs, a very large capacity for innovation, a great agility that must be inspired, but they have often been seriously weakened by the crisis. We must pay attention to their survival first and their place in the recovery afterwards. It is essential that they take part in the investments, but also that the investments made promote their future development. This responsibility is in the hands of a Secretary of State specifically responsible for this objective. The process in place is very interesting. It is ambitious in that it wants to allocate concrete projects rather than sticking to institutional constraints. We choose to hope, not to fear, that it will break on the regionalist or sub-regionalist reflexes of many, on the electoralism of some or the clientelism of others. The exercise is all the more difficult because it involves federated entities, some of which do not necessarily want this process to succeed and show the added value of the federal level, while others will still find it difficult to agree to get less than would be offered by conventional distribution keys. We hope that Europe will be there to ensure that you do not deviate from the path. We need it to be reassured. As we supported the idea of the Michel government's investment plan, we support your recovery process, although we sometimes find it difficult to reconcile the budgets announced for 2021 with your final goals. We hope that, unlike the Michel government, you will be able to move from speech to action and circumvent the pitfalls I have just mentioned. Among these pitfalls is the complex institutional structure of our country. We have already welcomed your willingness to focus on both the participatory approach and the objective of improving the effectiveness of public policies. But we cannot help but have a deep doubt about the sincerity of your intentions, in any case as far as health policy is concerned. Your agreement on this matter is very similar – and I am referring to a book by André Fontaine entitled One Bed for Two Dreams – to a bed in which Georges-Louis Boucher and Joachim Coens would sleep side by side. One dreaming to re-federalize all health and the other, to de-federalize it completely. Your agreement has settled between these two dreams: health will be defed. While the entire management of the pandemic shows every day how much a re-federalization of health skills is needed, while most actors in the sector and citizens want a re-federalization, you have decided to de-federalize. Regardless of the results of the participatory evaluation, regardless of the effectiveness of the policies, the decision is made. Worse still, in the meantime, the government will be able to exercise its powers asymmetrically, i.e. layer them over those of federated entities and thereby give up its own decision-making autonomy. It is not only to point the finger in a confederal logic, but also to put in place a particularly complex and therefore inefficient management, far removed from the objectives of efficiency. The embarrassment of the president of the MR and his minister of institutional reforms in the face of their decision to go in this direction shows that the dream of MR and CD&V is likely to turn into a nightmare for one of them, but also and above all for patients and health professionals. Another element that you intend to de-federalize further without prior participatory assessment is Belgium's representation on the European scene. At a time when Europe plays a particularly important role in recovery, you intend to strengthen the role of the federated entities at the level of the Councils of European Ministers without correcting the perverse effect of this representation, namely the obligation for Belgium to abstain whenever the federated entities do not agree with each other or with the federal government. Here again, the choice made regardless of any prior assessment raises questions and risks weakening our country to the detriment of all. We welcomed the announced break with the previous legislature, which was characterized by a lack of funding with regard to health and justice in particular. What do we see? Your current budget does not reflect these commitments in the areas of justice, health, migration, combating violence against women, and at this stage it is not enough to meet your immense mobility goals. One thing is clear, the break with the policy of the previous government is not so obvious. For health, we see no room for new policies. Your supplementary budgets are either the continuation of what had been decided before the conclusion of the White Blouse Funds government agreement, or the taking over of additional costs related to the covid crisis. The 2.5% of the growth standard is postponed to next year and simply reflects the mechanical growth of the cost of care associated with factors such as population aging and the evolution of technologies or drugs. If new policies are decided or if existing policies are strengthened, this will have to be done at the expense of other policies. We're far from the expected breakup. In court, refinancing will also be expected. Let us hope that we do not have to wait beyond the next budgetary adjustment! The same applies to the long-awaited recruitment of the federal police. In social affairs, progress is also timid: raising social minimums but not beyond the poverty line, nothing or almost anything on individualisation of rights, on pensions. The government will continue to think when we've been thinking for twenty years. The arduous trades expect treatment commensurate with the efforts that workers have made during their careers. The assisting spouses will await the fulfilment of the promises made by the previous government while the artists so affected by the health crisis see the prospect of a status worthy of the name move away. Everything that was urgent before the formation of the government became so many months after it. The gradual doubling of birth leave is an important step, but there is no guarantee in the program law that this leave will be automated or that it will become compulsory. We asked, by way of an amendment introduced by my colleague Catherine Fonck, for adoption leave to follow the same trend. We were told that it was too complex and that a broader analysis of the situation was needed. It doesn't make sense. We always wonder why this leave is considered differently. If this is a budget issue, we do not understand why the government would have a budget available for biological parents and not for adoptive parents. Finally, we are very concerned that the Defence and Cooperation budgets will remain so far from our international commitments. In the face of the ever-increasing and diverse threats to Europe and Belgium, directly or indirectly, it is important that our country develop the means to play its role on the European and international scene. We are concerned about the signal from the Defence budget. I will not go back to the nuclear exit saga, which we fear threatens our security of supply, the purchasing power or competitiveness of our companies, and the climate. Finally, with regard to the budget, I would like to address the issue of revenue and therefore taxation. You are announcing a major tax reform, as at every beginning of the new legislature. Good. The complexity of our taxation has made it incomprehensible to most citizens, and often unfair. Such a reform to the preparation of which the Supreme Council of Finance has been working for years must aim at coherence and must therefore address the issue in a comprehensive manner. It must also, according to your agreement, avoid new taxes. Now, what are we witnessing? At the announcement by the Minister of the Environment of environmental taxes, which are being replenished by its majority partners on the grounds that there will be no new taxes. In a second round, for a tax on securities accounts, even more chaotic and hopeless than the first. Tax measures taken under the Family Tax Programme Act, the non-indexation of tax expenditures or the increase of excise duties on tobacco. What will remain for the wider tax reform announced for coherence, for the overall view and for the balance to be established? It's like you're preventing yourself from having action levers to think global. We hope that your current discretion over digital taxation is not the result of your disinterest or scepticism, but is evidence of your willingness to move forward with us effectively to tax GAFAMs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u71	Mrs. Matz, you've got a minute left.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u72	I'll finish. We have reservations about some of the provisions of the programme law. I will particularly pin those concerning the central point of contact. While we are obviously fully in favour of the fight against tax evasion, we are also concerned about privacy. We would not like the very negative opinion of the Data Protection Authority to allow this mechanism to be challenged before the Constitutional Court, because it would not comply with a number of privacy obligations. Would you be rewriting us the same partition as for the tax on title accounts, the previous version, where the left gets a symbolic victory whose right knows that it will be reduced to nothing? Minister, I conclude by saying that I appeal to you; call for more openness to the work of the democratic parliamentary opposition as you announced. Call for a management of the health crisis which shows more anticipation, more coherence and more cohesion. Call for a genuine refinancing of health and justice and for an indecent increase in the cost of ministerial offices. Call for ambitious and courageous management of recovery. Finally, calls for a truly taboo reflection on our institutional organization to make public policies more effective. Until these appeals are heard, we will not be able to support your budget, which will not prevent us from remaining constructive in our opposition work. "We don't hunt fog with a fan", a little Chinese proverb I think everyone should be inspired by.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u73	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in theory, a budget is a moment of truth. I was all the more anxious to live this moment of truth because I had been rather frustrated, like some of my opposition colleagues, by the government's policy statement and its "prevert inventory", that is to say, an accumulation of additional measures or statements and, sometimes, contradict each other. For example, the minimum amount of the pension will be EUR 1,500 net, unless it is gross or it is not possible to do so. We're gonna shut down the nuclear power plants in 2025, unless we can't. We're gonna be able not to raise new taxes unless we have to. Surprise! To the analysis of this first budget, even if we are in difficult times – I will say a word – the Vivaldi team realizes the feat of tinting its budget tables with as much blur, of ambivalence as its declaration of government policy. This is not the fault of the current team, but it is because of the economic situation we are experiencing. We have a budget which is not only provisional but will probably be very provisional. It is prepared by the government on the basis of estimates from the October 2020 Monitoring Committee report, which were based on the macroeconomic parameters of the economic budget of the Federal Office of the Plan of September 2020. Therefore, it does not take into account the effect of the restrictive measures resulting from the resurgence of coronavirus in October 2020 nor does it take into account the budgetary impact of the support plan adopted by the government on November 6. In this regard, an appointment can already be made for the month of February 2021 with the new estimates of the Planning Office to fully assess the economic and financial consequences of this second wave. However, while my group can understand that the consequences of the new measures resulting from the resurgence of the virus in October 2020 are not included in the 2021 budget, it is somewhat more difficult to understand why the measures adopted during the exercise of kern+10 and special powers are not fully integrated into the current exercise. I am thinking in particular of the reduction of the occupational allowance on temporary unemployment benefits, the Consumer Cheque, the extension of payment reporting periods, the reduction of tax on donations or the right of access for the self-employed. As far as revenue is concerned, I would like to focus on a number of points. First of all, the government's goal is to achieve an employment rate of 80 per cent of the labour force by 2030, a goal of course shared by all. However, the government estimates that the expected return effects of this policy will gradually increase from EUR 50 million in 2021 to EUR 400 million in 2024. This reasoning seems to us to be very optimistic, too optimistic or even outright utopian. According to the Court of Auditors, as some colleagues have already pointed out, these figures reflect only a political intention and do not rely on a specific macroeconomic analysis. Moreover, the implementation of these measures is not based on a precise timetable and these estimates appear to be in complete contradiction with the National Bank's study, which provides for an estimated 160,000 to 170,000 jobs to be destroyed over the next few years. In terms of tax revenues, of course, there are several issues that need to be addressed. Of course, I am thinking of the famous tax on securities accounts. I almost fell from my chair just now by hearing my esteemed colleague Benoit Piedboeuf tell us that this was not a new tax but a resurrection. I always find it risky to use religious metaphors when talking about taxation. God, if he exists, could take him badly, dear colleague. Nevertheless, your metaphor may be more appropriate than you think. Indeed, if you have taken catechism courses like some of us, you know that this story ends badly. If Christ returns after three days, he does not stay very long. This tax on securities accounts could have an equivalent fate. First of all, we are facing a philosophical problem. Vivaldi would have been expected to tackle overall taxation, taxation on labour or capital, and to impose in a much fairer way all the fruits of capital and wealth. There is, indeed, a real job. It seemed more interesting to us than to tax the heritage itself slightly. You have chosen this path, which seems to us to be relatively risky. If we consider the criticisms made by the Council of State that the 0.15 per cent tax rate applies only after the EUR 1 million threshold has been exceeded, you risk seeing this measure be described as discriminatory and the fact that account splitting is not prevented, despite the introduction of an anti-abuse provision. You still rely on an amount of 400 million in 2021 and on a cruise rate of 428 million, but I do not see what would currently prevent this tax on securities accounts from suffering the fate of the one that preceded it and from being censored, cancelled or crucified – to remain in the metaphor – by the Court of Auditors. If that is the case, your tax revenues will be severely weakened. In the same way, we can mention the budget estimate of the Crossborder project, for which an additional revenue of 100 million is entered, as well as the famous revenue generated by the fight against tax fraud. There, we go from catechism to magic thinking. It's always a little the same with the expected returns of the fight against tax fraud. Indeed, for the exercise that concerns us today, you are planning a recipe of 200 million, without further precision. Of course, the government agreement provides for a new plan in this area, but for the time being this remains as vague as the other budgetary strands. I would like to take an example of what I am talking about: the increase in excise duties on tobacco, which is a good example of overestimation of revenues. This idea is not new, since the previous government had adopted it thinking of compensating for the loss of revenue generated by the tax shift. In practice, when this measure was adopted, people who wanted to buy tobacco or alcohol went abroad. Of course, if our group shares the objective of combating tobacco, we fear that this experience will be renewed. In terms of spending, especially primary spending in 2020, compared to 2019, this year will obviously leave great traces in our economy. The health and economic crisis will remain the most important problem in maintaining a budget in the very long term and bringing it back to balance. In addition, there is this tremendous blur – of which Mr Van Hees has spoken – of interdepartmental forecasts which, in our view, constitute the part of the fiscal year where the most areas of shadow and uncertainty are concentrated. First of all, there is the question of parliamentary scrutiny – that is perfectly correct. And then, the detail by department sins by a worrying lack of detail. Let us take the provision of the FPS Justice, of which my colleague Sophie Rohonyi has already spoken in committee. While a provision of $125 million has been included for the strengthening of justice – and that is very good – the government has not, however, indicated how it would be used, due to the apparent lack of time for the preparation of the budget. The same reasoning applies to the Asylum and Migration budget. It shows that a provision for Fedasil is entered up to EUR 80 million. In itself, we do not criticise it, but we do not know what expenditure this amount will be allocated to. With regard to mobility, your Government committed at the end of November to undertake new investments through the "Plan Boost", which provides for additional investments in 2021 amounting to €75 million for Infrabel and €25 million for SNCB. You also announced that funding would be requested from the European Union under the "Next Generation EU" plan. However, no figures or deadlines are announced. It is therefore questionable how these additional 100 million will be articulated in the general expenditure budget. Finally, with regard to the budget, climate and environmental policy, the budget work leaves us somewhat puzzled, especially given the composition of the government. Of course, the health crisis has dethroned for a time, and we all regret it, the climate issue. However, this remains a priority. There is also a pressing urgency, and the demand for results is urgent. It seems that the draft budget is intended to carry out studies, to activate bodies for consultation, to take opinions and to cooperate. Therefore, we will take note of the fact that 2021 will visibly be the year of study. It's just a little too bad, and here it's more like a comment for our friends in Ecolo-Groen, to move from opposition to the majority to continue studying, which we do very well in the opposition! I think we could have imagined a bit more pragmatic, a little more anchored in reality. That's for the budget. I think I still have a few minutes, since I have a lot less than others – which is quite normal. Just a word to say also what's fine, or what can be a little criticized about the program bill, and its tax component especially. What we are concerned about in the program legislation is the non-indexing of amounts in a number of areas, such as the non-indexing of the amounts of the tax reduction for expenses made to acquire an electric vehicle, the reduction of tax for gifts, or non-indexing for expenses incurred in an adoption procedure, and non-indexing for tax reduction for low-energy homes, passive homes or zero-energy homes. This seems a little paradoxical to us in view of the environmental ambitions that this government is setting itself. I also have a question which may have been answered in committee, and I apologise if that is the case, and which concerns the tax side. This is the transmission to the central point of contact of the balance of bank accounts and payment of taxpayers. Can the Minister confirm or disallow us if, with the adoption of this measure to expand the possibility of consultation of bank account balance data by the tax administration, it is really or not a lifting of bank secrecy? If not, what is the surplus value? I would not be entirely honest if I did not stress the positive points to encourage, with regard to the social status of the self-employed, the gradual extension of the paternity and birth allowance for self-employed workers and the period of interruption for births, the strengthening of the right of access for self-employed workers as well, the gradual extension of 10 days of birth leave to 20 days in 2023, which has already been extended to 15 days for the benefit of workers from January 2021 onwards. All this is obviously very good. With regard to the health aspect, our group welcomes the increase in the standard of legal growth to 2.5%, starting in 2022. It is a clear investment in our health care that can be welcomed for the initiative that is more than necessary. I will conclude by saying that the draft budget does not allow us to approve it as it stands. The program bill seems to us to contain good things, which will simply allow us to abstain or even vote in favour of certain provisions such as the one related to the extension of the right to parenthood. However, let members of the government receive our sincere encouragement for the continuity of their work!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u74	Thanks to Mrs Van Peel's keen leadership this morning, I started my speech about six hours later than I thought. Mrs van Peel is no longer here, but I hope she is following the meeting. (Protests from Mr Loones) Mrs De Block has an interesting picture of this, but I suggest that you look at it after my speech, Mr Loones. In any case, I have just learned from Mr Leysen that he has married us today and that he had a love marriage with the N-VA for that. The mind comes with the years and love is a verb. A few weeks ago, we approved provisional appropriations for the last time. At that time, I was pleased that they were the last provisional appropriations on the basis of a Swedish budget. Finally, there is a new government with a plan and a real budget to implement that plan. Of course, the plan and the budget are largely determined by corona. First, we need to control that crisis, then we need to re-launch our society and the economy so that we can focus on the necessary reforms that the government wants to implement. The timing will still have to be adjusted regularly. As Mrs Depraetere said earlier, it will depend on the grills of the virus. 2020 was all about recovery measures. We had hoped that the new government could concentrate 100% on the relay in 2021, but we have all seen that this will not yet be the case. We're facing a serious second wave. As a result, we are now in the process of extending temporary recovery measures to cover the greatest need for people and businesses. It is impossible to predict how it will proceed. Is there gonna be a third wave or not? How smoothly and effectively will vaccination happen? How long will it take to achieve a sufficient vaccination rate? What are the consequences of the removal of recovery measures and aid measures? All this is uncertain for everyone at the moment. It is in this context, ladies and gentlemen, that we must look at the government's plan and the budget that goes with it. Although we are still in the process of remedial action, we will also start re-launching and reform. I would like to take a closer look at some of the elements of that. I'll start with the relance, which is clearly linked to investment. Investments are clearly linked to climate and energy. Our country needed an ambitious investment plan anyway. The effect of the corona crisis is to accelerate and reflect on the economy of the future. Tomorrow's economy will not be the same as today's. Digitisation will be accelerated. There'll be some other thinking about transportation. There will be adjustments to globalisation, as it is today. The Federal Participation and Investment Company, FPIM, is given a crucial role in that story. We start from the principle that all public participations will eventually have to be managed by the FPIM. This brings together the expertise and makes everything more transparent. The government as a regulator and the government as a shareholder are two clearly separate roles. The government will provide funds with a transformation fund to be set up, which will be managed by the FPIM, EUR 750 million over the next two years. Its aim is to support key companies, to strengthen their solvency and to help them refocus on the new economy of the future. We will also invite institutional, private investors and regional investment companies to participate in that fund in order to create a strong vehicle for the revival of our economy. The investments we will make, ladies and gentlemen, must be smart investments. The government subscribes to the objectives of the European Green Deal. The government has the ambition to reduce CO2 emissions by 55% by 2030 and make our country climate neutral by 2050. This too, ladies and gentlemen, will have an impact on the direction our economy is going to take. This will affect, among other things, digitisation, transport and energy production. I've already mentioned the accelerated digitization. Investment will be made in the further digitisation of services, as well as in infrastructure that enables a performing digital society. As far as transport is concerned, the government will invest in SNCB and Infrabel. It is our country's ambition to become an international hub of train traffic and to provide commuters with the service they deserve. That is why the grants to these companies will be increased. The first extra station has already opened. Our country has the healthy ambition to take energy production back into its own hands and there is a plan to use fully renewable energy in the long term, with insurance of supply and without increasing the invoice. This will also be the subject of the necessary investment. The second important aspect after investment is taxation, with which I take a look at income. A number of measures are already being implemented from next year onwards, which should lead to a complete reform of the system by the end of the legislature. The key words of this reform are modernisation, simplification and justice. It is a question of ensuring that as many people as possible contribute according to their capacity; the strongest shoulders bear the heavy burden. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not a complicated principle. Its impact does not have to be complicated either. We look at all the strong shoulders, including the abilities, including the professional athletes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u75	Madam President, Mr Vanbesien, you say that the strongest should bear the heavy burden and you talk about the Green Deal. However, you never talk about the major polluters. I assume you've seen Oxfam's study, the highest incomes pollute the most. In our country, five companies emit 20% of all CO2. Five companies are responsible for one fifth of CO2 emissions in our country. These companies then receive direct subsidies, paying 4% on their profits in taxes. When we talk about large polluters, we must also talk about the ETS, about the European carbon market. It was in Knack last week, the polluter does not pay, the polluter is paid. Belgian companies have earned EUR 2 billion on that European carbon market by selling free allowances on the market. So that's just fried air. You and your minister say they will take energy production into their own hands. Of course you don't, you always rely on the market. Just put those companies on binding standards. Just do that. You don't take it, you don't talk about it. You don't say anything about the ETS either. You're not gonna do anything about that either. But you do come down with a CO2 tax for the people. That's what you want. That's not what you're saying, that's not the strongest shoulders carry the heaviest burdens. What are you going to do about this European carbon market, so that it is over with this mess and the sale of fried air?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u76	Madam President, Mr Warmoes, you are referring to the companies that produce the largest emissions in our country. An evolution is also taking place there. There too there will be an evolution. In the run-up to the elections in 2019, the newspaper De Standaard published a series of interviews with CEOs from major companies and their vision of CO2 emissions and climate problems during the campaign. Among other things, there was an interview with the CEO of ArcelorMittal in Ghent, the company with the largest CO2 emissions in our country. He then stated that it is technically perfectly possible to produce steel in a climate-neutral way. Then he'd have to be protected by politics. That is indeed something that politics can do. We can protect our borders at European level, so that there is a levy on steel produced outside Europe with different standards, which protects clean steel here. However, it goes beyond that. The industry must also look at itself. Meanwhile, the CEO of the steel manufacturer Tata Steel in India has declared that by 2040 the company will bring its steel to the market climate-neutral anyway. Such signals will also have to be received by Arcelor Mittal. We are therefore going in that direction irrevocably. We will evolve worldwide towards a low carbon to carbon-free society. The systems such as ETS are now in the transition. They will be extinct. Can it all go faster? Yeah, it can all go faster. If we maintain the plan to move towards climate neutrality by 2050 and include our industry in that story, we are already doing well. Colleagues, a second important pillar in the plan on taxation and taxation is to tackle those who cheat or do not engage in the logic of contributions to capacity. There's gonna be a solid plan against fraud. Work on the subject has already started. The ambition is high, as Mr Loones said this morning. That's good and important. We will invest in a good framework, so that this branch will make a serious contribution to the state finances. In addition, there are initiatives to educate those who are avoiding their contribution today. Measures are being taken to close loopholes used to legally avoid taxes, and an initiative is being taken to help large companies, multinationals and digital giants contribute. They are today a little symbol of the strong shoulders that do not bear their share of the burden and will be worked on through international cooperation with the OECD and the European Union. Finally, a third issue I would like to highlight is social security and social policy. It is generally known that our system of social security is one of the most performant in the world. Even now, in this crisis, the system has begun at the start of the crisis. Through the immediate deployment of temporary unemployment, the right to bridge and other measures, our country was the first to avoid as many victims as possible in the social field. This crisis is the best advertisement for strong social security and for maintaining and strengthening the system. Social security is not only a matter of money but also of quality of life. However, we must realise that there are also problematic situations. The day before yesterday, the National Bank of Belgium announced that 20 billion euros of savings were added and that the Belgians did not really lose their purchasing power, but their distribution is not even at all. There are sometimes questions about who is going to pay for this crisis, but we have to realise that there are already many compatriots today who pay part of the crisis and bear part of the costs: people who suffer loss of income from temporary unemployment and people who have to close down their business and who have no or only a small income. This may get worse: bankruptcies and redundancies are on the doorstep. The solidarity we are building today may therefore be even greater, because there are already many people who are paying for the crisis. It is therefore important that we also pay a great deal of attention in the budget to social corrections: the gradual increase of minimum pensions to EUR 1,500, the raising of the lowest benefits to the poverty line, the extension of the social tariff for energy and the extension of paternity leave. In addition to these social measures, health care is also extremely important here. That too is something that the crisis has made clear to us: the importance of care and care staff. We invest structuralally in the care staff. We invest structuralally in mental health care. We are making sure that the growth standard is raised. Health is our highest good. We wish each other good health at New Year's, but we do not realize the importance of it until we are confronted with the lack of that good health in ourselves or among our neighbors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u77	You have just listed in your list the extension of the target groups for the social tariff. I do not know to what extent you manage or know this file well, the genesis of the file, but since you mention it, let me explain it to you. We're in love with this. It is an article of the programme law that was presented to the members of the Social Affairs Committee at 23.59 p.m. because Santa Claus arrives at night. I entered the committee for a moment and thought I knew the amendment from somewhere. I knew it from the coalition agreement, but of course there is also a history of the coalition agreement and a history. I was reminded of the bill by Van der Straeten and Ben Accour, from May-June 2020. During that period there were many opinions: advice from the CREG, advice from the FPS Economy, advice from the energy suppliers. They were very critical, not about the exercise, not about the objective, but about the process, the choice of that mechanism, for the extension of the target group. Why, for example, not work with an energy cheque, as France does or has done? I had to submit all these negative opinions to Minister Dermagne, Mr Vanbesien. It was Minister Dermagne who had to explain the amendment with Mr Ben Accour in the Committee on Social Affairs. He said he talked all this through in government formation, with the suppliers who were quite critical, I spare you the technicality of why they were critical, and that was all gone, there were no operational objections anymore. Can you explain why all these critical advices have suddenly melted away like snow in front of the sun? I find that very strange.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u78	Mr Ravyts, this is the last month of the year. All our colleagues have had to work very quickly. The most important thing is that we want to help hundreds of thousands of people with this system in 2021. I'm glad you say you're fond of it. That's what you started with. This is now a one-year arrangement. That can be adjusted afterwards. This is a general discussion and I suggest that you include the details of how it is introduced in the thematic discussion. The most important thing is that we have a result for those hundreds of thousands of families and that there is a broad consensus on this. Colleagues, I decide. I have discussed three themes a little more closely. This is a project on which we want to cooperate, this is a project on which we are proud and confident, and this is why we have joined the majority. However, this is not the end point. Politicians are often accused of thinking only in the short term. I understand that reproach. That is why we want to achieve a trend break here too. A crisis like corona forces us to think about the longer term, a problem like global warming does so much more. That is why we look further ahead and make choices that are not always obvious for the short term, but which are the best choices for the long term. To conclude, I would like to quote from the introduction made by the former co-formers to the coalition agreement: 'The European Presidency in 2024, must become the organ of a whole series of profound economic, social and environmental reforms that our country must modernise. By 2030, at the celebration of 200 years of Belgium, our country must stand as an example in Europe of economic dynamism, effective solidarity and sustainable development." Our group will therefore approve this budget, the first full budget of this legislature, which is the start of implementing that plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to the vast majority of the speeches. There are two things that stand out to me. On the one hand, I sometimes feel that there is a lack of realism among some. When I hear some talk about the fact that there are rising spending and about the fact that debt is rising, it seems as if they want to make this a budget debate like every other year. It almost forgets that we are in the biggest health crisis that our country has been experiencing since time immemorial and in an economic crisis that we have not seen since the Second World War. I have the impression that some people are pretending that the current situation does not exist, but that the current budgetary situation is business as usual. I hope that the majority of those who have spoken in this way will understand that we are not in a normal situation in our country and indeed in the rest of the world, but in a very exceptional situation. Sometimes I have the impression that the right side ignores the fact that a large part of our economy has been shut down in the past year. Also at least in the first months of next year, a large part of the economy will be forced to stop. This government has indeed chosen to support those people in order to ensure that some of them receive income for activities that they have to shut down, not of their own will, but because of an event over which they have no control whatsoever. This almost classic opposition language surprises me a little, given the situation we are in today. However, in the weekly questioning, this situation is constantly being raised and the government is being reminded of the great difficulties we are facing. I sometimes hear on the left that it is not enough, whereas we are actually pumping billions of euros into the economy. Mr Van Hees, in your reasoning it will never be enough. Perhaps it will suffice for you just when the whole economy is nationalized. However, we do not make that choice. I noticed a second element. I hope that some people do not have some kind of cynicism, a certain degree of gloat about the fact that our country has been severely affected. Our country has a small, open economy. Our country is a hub, connected to the neighbouring countries and to the rest of the world. The evolution of our economy depends very much on what is happening in the rest of the world. The fact that we are an international hub is an asset. At a time like this, we must admit that it is also a challenge. It is an epidemiological challenge. A lot of people come to our country. Our country is also economically a hub. That affects us; we are indeed very strongly influenced by what is happening in the rest of the world. But the government's handling it. We do not close our eyes to this; we face the challenge. Economic figures for 2020 are not yet fully in place. When I listen to some people, I sometimes get the impression that people are almost rubbing their hands, referring to the heavy impact in our country, when we actually have relatively little control over it. If that is a criticism of the government, then I can live with it. However, it bothers me that it points the finger at those who have done everything in recent months to find the best possible solution, to the companies and self-employed who have taken everything out of the box to be able to work safely, and who have sought all forms of creativity in order to continue their activities, to create prosperity and to maintain jobs, so that our social security can be supported on the basis of that prosperity. I hope it is not a motion of censure against them. Yeah, our country's getting hit hard. This calls for many measures. The government does the same and does everything in its power to continue to support those who have been affected. We ensure that those who want to move forward, who keep our country enterprising, are supported so that we can remain competitive. I'll get back to the numbers. Some claim that no country is doing as badly as our country, except Spain. I'll give you other figures later to refute that. The truth is that our country is being hit hard, just as many other countries are being hit hard. Today we do not follow the reasoning of a ranking, whereby we can point the finger at those who do worse than we do, knowing that we have no control over a very large part of the economic impact. What is important is how we have supported our citizens, how we have ensured that unemployment in our country is still around 5%, at a time of very severe economic crisis. What is important is that we protect people's income. Of the majority, income was very well protected. People with lower incomes even see a slight increase in their income, which at a time like today can absolutely be defended. Yes, we have taken action. For example, in the medical world, we know that this crisis has had a huge impact on all those working in the care professions. That was the case in the first wave. This is certainly and probably even more the case in the second wave. We have taken a EUR 1.2 billion package of support measures, and we have planned more carers, better pay and less work. From an economic point of view, what will the impact be? Looking at the forecasts of the OECD and the European Commission, we are talking about the fact that Belgian growth could be 5% next year. Others are talking about the fact that it will be around 0%, which confirms that the budgetary approach we have used is a dynamic approach. It is said that instead of putting a figure, we will instead consider the effort that was set out in the government agreement, namely a minimum effort of 0.2% of GDP. Besides, with this budget, it will be higher. But we're clear. We are in a difficult time, but that means that a government can continue to find efficiencies, find places where there is fraud and tackle it. I have spoken about the measures we are taking in health care. The Minister will certainly come back to this in the thematic discussion. It is an additional funding that comes to the EUR 4.7 billion that we inject into health care at the time of the crisis. That makes a lot of sense, too. At some point the question has been asked whether there is money to pay for the vaccines. I can reassure you. Yes, the commissions do provide money to pay for the vaccines. The Secretary of State for the Budget will deal with this in more detail in the near future. We have taken a whole series of support measures, such as the bridging right that was very important in the first wave. In the second wave, we doubled the right of bridging, because there are self-employed people who have been out of income for a long time. We need to protect their income. We have generalised temporary unemployment to ensure that people do not have to be fired at a difficult time like today, but also to ensure that staff costs for companies that lose their activity can be taken over. We also ensure that social rights, such as pension-building, are safeguarded for people affected. The Minister of Finance will discuss in more detail questions about the three successive banking plans, or bazookas as they are sometimes called, which have been made about the postponement of payments, moratoria which have been used very extensively. He will also discuss other liquidity measures, such as deferment of payment or solvency measures. There was also a carry back in this budget, as was a reconstruction reserve. We also did cancellations of RSZ contributions at times that were very difficult. There were also social measures. We have made sure that people who experience an impact on their benefits and thereby risk poverty see their benefits increased. At the moment, it is also justified that those who are struggling and hardest hit by this crisis should also receive this support. There is also support for sectors that have been severely affected. For example, we have made arrangements to make overtime easier in sectors where there is a great deal of activity today and where it is difficult to recruit people. We have used ways to simplify the use of the unemployed and volunteers in healthcare. We have also made systems of posting in care and education easier. These measures have an effect, they amount to a total of EUR 12.2 billion that we are injecting to help companies, self-employed people and families at a particularly difficult time. If people say that this has an impact on the budget, that is true. What impact would there be if we did not take these measures? One could perhaps say for one year that there is no impact on the budget and then see the impact on our economy and families over the next twenty years. Only then would one see what dramas this would cause. I am therefore fully defending the effort we are making now. If one compares it with other countries, then it is actually the logic itself to do so at the moment. Our country has automatic stabilisers, which is often a reason why we are more easily affected by crises. It is also a time to make those automatic stabilisers work. We are a country with a broad middle class that we must maintain and we are going to do everything we can to ensure that this broad middle class gets through. Of course, we cannot guarantee that there will be no impact. The majority of our companies claim to have received the necessary support to get through this. However, I am not blind to the fact that 20% of companies are facing difficulties or are in danger of going bankrupt today. We have therefore taken measures, shoulder to shoulder, with the governments of the Länder having the same objective. They have also taken wide-ranging measures to help people get through it as much as possible. Does this mean that occasionally there are measures or premiums that may be a little too broad? I believe that this cannot be avoided. But I think we should be a little too careful at the moment rather than forgetting whole categories of people. It is clear that the best way to combat the economic crisis is to beat the virus. However, I fear that we will not be able to beat the virus permanently in the coming months. We've all seen the first wave. The second one, everyone got it in Europe. We see countries that are at the beginning of a likely third wave. This Friday's Consultation Committee will have the opportunity to look at how to continue to do everything possible to avoid this third wave. Let's look at what we've done in the last six weeks. We were the worst student in Europe! In six weeks, few countries today have done better than us. I'm saying it to show you that it's possible. It is possible to do so with smart measurements. We haven't completely blocked the country. The country has not been put into full confinement. We have taken measures that we thought were clear and sustainable from a human and economic point of view. The challenges are not always to find new measures. The challenge is to maintain the measures we have taken. I understand that this is not obvious from a human point of view. I understand the frustration and disappointment with the fact that we do not control the figures at 100%. But we must maintain them so that the economic impact is not heavier. As far as the economic impact is concerned, look at the IMF figures, which I do not think anyone will contest them, perhaps not even the colleagues of the PVDA. The figures from the IMF are actually very clear. By 2020, the IMF says that our country has done better economically than France, Italy, Spain and even the United Kingdom. For 2021, there is a growth forecast for our country of 5.4 %, more than 1% higher than the Netherlands and Germany, and it is assumed that we will be able to make up for the backlog that we have experienced this year in the course of next year. However, we do not have 100% certainty about this. I use this argument because international bodies recognise that the policy we have pursued is a policy that provides resilience, which ensures that, when things get better, we will do everything we can to make the most of our country's potential. This is based on social interventions. I think I've talked enough about it. This is also based on reforms. We are very clear about the reforms that this government will make in the period 2020-2021. I talked about crisis management. But reforms must be made within a stable framework. There is a need for a government agreement that clearly defines the areas in which reforms will be made. We need political stability, with parties in a government that understands that we do not necessarily agree on everything, but that we have reached a government agreement on the elements on which we can find ourselves. Does that mean that everyone is there at 100%? No! In a country with coalitions, that's not how it works. We can even ask ourselves the question: in today's fast-moving world, can we say that a person or party holds the absolute truth? I see today that the successes in this crisis are the moments when we work together. Let me give you an example: the success achieved in developing vaccines in less than a year. How did they succeed? This is due to public and private cooperation: the strength of the private sector in terms of innovation and the stability and volume that governments can give if they work together, including at European level. The fact that a coalition government is trying to meet can lead to a robust reform programme. I would like to make a number of points on this point. For example: the reform of the redundancies regime, to make it more active instead of the current passivity of the system; tax advantages for companies, specifically SMEs that want to invest in training their staff at a time when the world is changing at high speed V and it is certainly more difficult for them; eliminating unemployment traps, for example for people with long-term illness; combating discrimination situations, such as the labour price for people with disabilities. With regard to pensions, we have made it very clear that by September next year there will be a list of pension reforms, convergence between the different systems and democratisation of the second pillar. Mr Van Hees, I know that this is something that you do not like very much, but our pension system is a balance between different systems, of distribution but also of capitalisation. There will also be a framework for organising telework properly, as well as a framework for career savings. There will be agreements at company level in which employers and trade unions can find each other in the modalities of work organisation. These are all reforms that were very clear in the government agreement and for which a method was agreed with the government parties to implement those reforms in the course of 2021. I'll come back to Europe again. A number of speakers have spoken a little narrowly about a Europe that would not be up to the challenges we face. There is no denying that at the beginning of the crisis we saw a number of behaviours that are not really an expression of the Europe we believe in. I am thinking, for example, of lorry drivers who crossed a particular country and were afraid that things would be confiscated. In the meantime, Europe has put things in order. Today we see that the internal market is functioning and that, where necessary, green lanes have been organised so that trade between the various countries can take place. I have just discussed the vaccination project in detail and what is possible if European countries find each other and if European countries decide together to use the volume as the largest market in the world to create a head start and ensure that vaccines can be developed quickly. There is also the EUR 750 billion investment programme for which an agreement was reached in the European Council last week. That was necessary. Do you remember the 2008 crisis? Then it was every man for himself. Each country was trying to save its banks, sometimes to the detriment of the other countries. Today I don't see that behavior anymore. Today I see that all countries together manage to set up an investment programme to get our country and Europe out of this crisis, but above all to turn our economy around, to prepare it for the digital wave, to make it more sustainable, to use that crisis to make a real economic turnaround. That is what we need at European level. I note that there are a number of mechanics being used that were political science fiction up until a year ago. A year ago, many said that the use of a Eurobon-based system was impossible. They said something like this would never happen. A year later, I find that this is possible. Some say it was impossible a few weeks ago to link some of these resources to respect for the rule of law. We will succeed at European level in reaching agreements on this. During this difficult period, results are achieved by those who sometimes dare to go beyond the concept of self-righteousness. Those are the ones who sometimes dare to look at the ideas of others. Therefore one should not completely renounce one's own faith, but that means that one should look at what lives with others. This government is indeed made up of many parties. This can also be seen as a reflection of a very diverse society in our country. The results at difficult times are results of cooperation. The results of cooperation at European level are an example of what can be achieved through cooperation. Cooperation within this government can at times with dramatic figures make the right decisions, which were not easy. Decisions are explained, people are motivated and results are achieved. This also applies to cooperation with other governments. Cooperation in the Consultative Committee has been good in recent months. Governments sometimes had different compositions, but managed to take the necessary measures. We did this before the sanitary crisis. I assume that we can also succeed in reaching agreements before the economic crisis, despite sometimes differing opinions. That's the government's approach. The approach is one of respect and one of cooperation. The purpose of this government and the purpose of this budget is to protect maximum people and businesses, to do the most to protect them in these very difficult times, and at the time it goes better to give maximum opportunities. We want to ensure that we can grow again and that everyone can take the fruits of that growth with us. If we are to promote political cooperation within our country, we must also be clear. If things get better, we need to make sure that everyone can reap the benefits of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u80	Prime Minister, thank you. Does another member of the government wish to intervene? In this case, earlier. As far as the replies are concerned, we will follow the order of importance of the political groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the first round of the debate, in which we have heard the general political reflections of all parties. I look forward to the thematic debates that will follow. Prime Minister Alexander De Croo, thank you for your first answers. I understand that in your capacity as government leader, you embed your replies in a story. It is also your job and your role to make the narrative of the present government more tangible. I must confess that this always creates a feeling of homesickness. I am homesick of Minister De Croo, the Minister of Trade, who conducted the debate, more on the basis of the facts, more on the basis of the facts, more on the basis of the facts, and who also in fact reflected what was really said in the debate and not so much its own narrative. I repeat, I understand. It's your role as Prime Minister to do that. Nevertheless, it is important to give a number of replies. Firstly, you say that we are not in a normal situation and that you doubt that everyone is aware of that. Of course we are not in a normal situation. We all know that. As well as any party here takes responsibility in one government or another. There are a few limited exceptions. We all know that the current crisis requires a great deal of effort, including budgetary efforts. We all know that. However, the question is how it is handled. That is the point I made during my speech, for example. It is a pity that you do not agree to that. We are not alone in the current crisis. Everyone, especially in Europe, suffers. We note that in other countries the crisis is apparently being dealt with in a different way, because they manage to do so with smaller budget deficits. Only Spain has a greater deficit than we do. You're asking me to look over the walls. That's the story of your government. You're sitting with different parties. That can be inspiring and one can get ideas from one another. Please do the same and see what happens in the other European countries. Apparently, they have recipes that are more effective and efficient and certainly lead to a lower budget deficit than the deficit in your budget. I can only call you to do so. You note that our prosperity is much less affected than we are in the current debate. Prime Minister De Croo, I don't invent those numbers. These are the analyses made by the European Commission of all countries. I brought them with me again. The loss of prosperity, which is viewed by comparing the current gross domestic product with 2019, is almost 5% in Belgium. Only Italy and Spain get even bigger hits. There will always be discussions about the number after the decimal point. However, the trend is clear. We are not doing well in terms of budget deficits. Unfortunately, we are not doing well in terms of loss of prosperity either. Of course, we don't gloat in that. We know that all this challenge will eventually be linked to an invoice. We know how to pay taxes. We know what the tone and tone of the melody is in your government. That's what makes us worried. I'm not laughing about it in any way, on the contrary. Secondly, you say that we have a small open economy, linked to neighbouring countries, that we are an international hub and that how our economy evolves depends on how other countries do it. That's totally right. We have a small open economy. That's why we don't do too much crazy. There is another crisis coming, namely the Brexit crisis. Since we have a trading economy, that is a real challenge for us. I am a little disappointed that no reply has been received, but I am sure that will be reflected in the thematic debates. It's important, though. Your statement shows just how bad it is that this has not been taken into account in the budget. There is an item of EUR 26 million, while we know that it has a huge impact. We all hope for these European cents and want to get as much of them as possible, but we know that this will have to be supplemented by federal support. We all know that in this Chamber, but that is not in this budget. You can still fix this. You can still come up with an amendment. It happens regularly here in Parliament that the government itself submits amendments. I call for this to be done, because it would at least have the advantage of transparency. You can then say transparently that you, as a government, are aware of what you stand for and that budgets must be against it. The same applies to the budgets for the vaccines. I will be very brief, I will not repeat the debate. There is one person in your government who is not fully telling the truth. Madam Secretary of State nods, just like on the radio this morning. Prime Minister, you say that money has already been entered in this budget. On the other hand, Minister Vandenbroucke says here in Parliament that this money is not in the budget. The Court of Auditors also says in writing that this money is not in the budget. One of them isn't telling the whole truth. It is important for Parliament to really know which one is. In any case, it is not appropriate for falsehoods to be told in a parliament. One of them isn't right. I'd be more comfortable sleeping if I knew what was going on. According to everything we see, according to the Court of Auditors and according to the debates that we have held in all possible committees, the commissions to which you refer, Mr De Croo, are already fully earmarked and exhausted. We will have that debate later. I hope to hear the truth. And I also hope that Minister Vandenbroucke will be here, because he has told us something else. I really don't think that's fair. The opposition cannot be blamed for making a point on the basis of the answers we receive from a minister, and then replicating that we are distorting the truth. I assume that if Minister Vandenbroucke says something, that is correct. Then you cannot blame us for working on that. I expect Mr Vandenbroucke to tell me why he gave us other information the first time if there is another story after that, and that is possible. Even then, Mr Kathleen Depoorter pointed out that the Court of Auditors was very specific about this. So it has not been said apart from any knowledge of the facts. The opposition cannot be blamed for believing a minister. I'd say that's pretty far-reaching. I hope that's not how we're gonna do politics here? I come to my next point, and that concludes my speech, Madam President. Prime Minister, you underline that the government is a coalition government and that it makes sense that a party cannot implement 100% of its programme. Of course it makes sense. We know that, of course. We've been a government party, too. We are still in the Flemish government. A Belgian government is unfortunately one with many parties. Then one must always add water to the wine. But the question is, for each of you, until when does it stay wine and when does it become water? I can only say that this morning and this afternoon throughout the debate a number of parties are almost drunken from the wine from the coalition agreement. I do not think they will wake up with a hangover, on the contrary, I believe that the hangover is for the Flemish taxpayer. But I believe that there are also parties who are still sober in the Chamber and who must drink mainly water from the coalition agreement. Maybe they should be partying in the Cabinets. I can imagine that, but they should mainly drink water. And yes, Prime Minister, I am talking about Open Vld and specifically about labour market policy. You have listed a number of proposals and there are some good things in them. It's not like you're doing nothing. But the programme that is really needed to make a leap forward and to use the trend towards 80% employment rate is not yet on the table here. If you had that, that would be one of the biggest mysteries in the Rue de la Loi, because we didn't see it. In particular, we have seen measures that encourage inactivity rather than activation. I decide. These are special times today with the corona crisis. Corona creates a special context for us, but that doesn't give you a free pass. That doesn't give you a blank check to do anything and at the end say you didn't know, because corona. Corona will be the ultimate umbrella. My impression is that we will literally repeat the debate we are having next year. Next year, you'll say you tried, but yes, there was corona. Corona is the ultimate excuse. That's not right either. Corona won't give you a ticket on irresponsibility. On the contrary, corona is just challenging you to take more responsibility, to be more careful about the money, to calculate what you know for sure and not to blow air into the budget. We know that too. We have often had to fight enough in the previous government because Mr Van Overtveldt was asked to pump up the figures so that we could be just as good friends again and see what happened the year after. Open Vld, the N-VA and, by the way, CD&V then fought in the government to keep budgetary margins and yet to secure a billion here and there, because we knew that a budget is always a bit uncertain. However, your budget does not contain any margin. On the contrary, a number of certain costs are not even included. If I were to speak with the Minister of Finance instead of the Prime Minister, you would perhaps answer those arguments in fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u82	Prime Minister, the proverb says that the rooster crows the hardest on its own dung heap. Freely translated, the Walloon rooster today is the hardest on its own budget. Not only do we have a government dominated by Walloon parties, we also have a government characterised by Walloon budgetary laxity. The budget before us is based on totally unrealistic economic prospects, and the government is counting on it. This is not only a sign of a really bad budgetary policy, but you also refuse to recognise that every body is calling the alarm. If you say the future is uncertain, no one can deny it. Your responsibility in previous governments is not, however, and in your whole reasoning you forget one clear aspect. This reminds us of your passage in the Seventh Day on 29 March, when you were Minister of Finance. Journaliste Liebeth Imbo then summarized the essence in her assessment to your address: "A country like Belgium has started the corona crisis with a well. Is it not the time when Belgian politics must admit that we are not prepared at all, that we have missed our chance to get our budget in order and to be strong when a crisis is coming towards us that cannot be foreseen, some kind of sense of responsibility? We have not prepared our country properly." So far this very accurate analysis from the Seventh Day. You did not answer this question at the time, of course, and you are also avoiding that sense of responsibility today. After all, you dare not name the collective failure of the political class in this country to prepare this unprecedented crisis. There is no effective sense of responsibility for the wells that the Swedish Government has clearly left behind. In fact, these wells already date from the Verhofstadt government. However, the left-wing parties that are part of your government are now ready to make billions of new spending. But I would like to give a clear warning here. That kite won't go on after corona. A lot of sectors are fighting to survive. A lot of companies are going bankrupt. Hundreds of thousands of employees and self-employed people are in danger of losing their jobs. I can't believe a lot of people are having trouble paying their bills. So, after corona, don't bring in billions of euros for climate change and millions of euros for asylum seekers. Our people won't take this anymore. Every penny left in your state treasury must finally go to our own people. You were also talking about dealing with the corona crisis, Prime Minister. The Wilmès government had one mission, in particular to tackle the corona crisis, to set up a testing and tracing system. But we have to collectively admit that this has failed brilliantly. In the meantime, government seizures in this country have risen to 60%. The government has proven over the past year that it cannot manage our money properly. The country with the highest taxes finally became the country with the worst health report in the world. You said that Belgium was hit hardest by corona. The high level of public debt therefore does not guarantee the best policy. There is no guarantee at this time that a third wave of the virus can be excluded, because testing and tracing are still not on track. That's why I said the rooster crows the hardest on its own mess. You have not convinced us, Prime Minister. Finally, you also refer to Europe. What we feared eventually becomes true. As Prime Minister, you will join in another European plan that will eventually make Flanders one of the largest net contributors, this time for the corona restoration. For the first time, it is true that common European debts are being incurred and that European taxes are also being envisaged for the first time. First, the debts are made and then it is only after that that can be financed. Europe is nothing more than a big Belgium. We think this should stop. After all, the Flemings go on top of that, via European taxes may pay the invoice of the corona repair. That is unacceptable to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u83	Madam President, I still have to intervene after everything I hear. The Prime Minister explained, as I also did this afternoon, what areas we were going to work on, with cohesion. I told you earlier: we are heteroclites, but not disparate. I'm holding it. When we finished Swedish – that is, when you left in Marrakech – you felt that the situation, apart from migration, was good. We had done a good job. We had results. What makes the results we had at the time different today? It's the crisis! That's what happened, though! Mr Loones, that is why we now have a deficit and that debt has increased. It's not your departure that suddenly hastened things. Neither should we try to make us believe that you are the saviors of Belgian democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u84	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u85	I was pulling you a pole and you grabbed it. You didn't fail to seize her! The problem, when you're in trouble, you see, is to narrow the ranks. It is precisely to deal with the difficulties together. And you keep talking, complaining, and criticizing socialists, and criticizing Wallonia, and so on. But I've already told you, we have a lot of talents at home. We have a lot of talent in space, in agri-food, in artificial intelligence. Yes, in Parliament too. It's amazing all the time trying to question our responsibility in the management of our state. I'm so sorry. I told you earlier. The situation is difficult and we will tighten the ranks to try to fight it and achieve results. As for statistics, the worst student, etc... I was still with the Dutch ambassador on Monday. We were talking. He told me that statistics in the Netherlands count deaths in hospital, but not deaths in nursing homes. Count the deaths of the rest homes at home to see the difference it makes! We're manipulating statistics, and you're adding a layer. I do not agree with that. The Court of Auditors criticized our budget much more when we were together than it does now. You didn't read the reports well. Read the reports from when we were in the government! Read all the criticisms that were made about tax revenue projections, anti-fraud projections, etc.- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The opinion of the Court of Auditors is no worse than it was. I am sorry to tell you, either, that of the Commission. Moreover, the reason why there is a clause that allows us to derogate is precisely because the situation is difficult. We may be on a pile of manure, but in my opinion you're not far from it either. And I'd rather be above than below. But if you want us to get out of here, work with us! You have the right to have your opinion on the budget. No problem, that's normal. That's why we're here. But stop complaining all the time about Wallonia and the Socialist Party! I know the Socialist Party very well and I fight it when it is necessary, but there is also a way to work together. You were ready to do it, you were ready to take them with you and kiss them on the mouth so you could have your independence. So stop teaching us lessons! We'll work on what's needed and you can keep yelling. We're going to go on nicely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u86	Madam President, Prime Minister, I have heard your reaction to the interventions. There is one point on which I join you, it is that I do find it very shocking to hear the right-wing nationalist bloc say that this government would be spending too much in the context of a crisis of the coronavirus which is a historic crisis, exceptional, of unparalleled gravity. In this context, to come with such logic and argumentation, I find it particularly shocking. I agree with you when you raise it. It should be noted, however, that we have supported a series of assistance measures that the government has put forward, such as bridge law, temporary unemployment, etc. On the other hand, you say, "For you, the PTB is never enough!" No, I think you didn't listen to what I said, that another policy was possible if we adopted a millionaire tax instead of a placebo tax on securities accounts. Similarly, if we really charge the multinationals that don't pay anything today. Similarly, if, for example, a kiwi model was adopted to finance health care, by effectively reducing the social security bill of the amounts earned by the pharmaceutical sector on its back. Similarly, if, for example, we look back at the astronomical investments made for the F-35. All this amounts to billions of euros that could be sought to finance a truly social policy, which meets the immense social needs of our country and which at the same time would not make workers pay. Indeed, there is no point in providing for the needs of workers and the population and then making them pay. That is the solution we are pursuing. Prime Minister, you blame me for wanting to nationalize everything. If I understand you correctly, when I criticize the government for its policy of budget cuts in public services, which will result in the abolition in 2024 of 5000 public jobs, does that mean for you that I want to nationalize everything? Excuse me, but it seems to me that you're a little in the caricature. What does that have to do with it? We are defending public services, indeed. But we are right to defend public services, because if there was one lesson to be learned from the health crisis, then the disaster would have been multiplied if the public services had not been there! We have seen that, without the state's rampart in its economic or social means of action, the system would have completely collapsed. Let us draw this lesson from the health crisis: public services and social security are essential in a society to face such challenges. I remember that when we presented our White Blouse Fund, which was based on the social movement, and we obtained, following a vote in a context without a government, 400 million euros in support of nursing, the liberal family was shouting loudly. Sophie Wilmès, who was then in charge of the budget, exclaimed: "But 400 million, you don't realize what that means!" Today, we see that these 400 million were indispensable but also that they are far from sufficient. The situation in the health care sector is catastrophic today. Just see the latest study by the Federal Centre of Expertise (KCE), which shows that the number of patients delaying their health care has increased fourfold in the last eight years! Similarly, the number of nurses per hospital bed is still far too small in Belgium. The lessons of this teaching have not really been learned, namely that austerity is catastrophic and that public services must be defended. This government is taking immediate action. Of course, they are welcomed, but in the long run we are going back to the old liberal logic of cutting off public services. The Secretary of State has said this, repeated and she has again acquiesced today; the austerity rules imposed on us by the European budgetary gendarme for 2021 are suspended to give us some oxygen, but from 2022 it will be over. That's the reality! In 2021, a little oxygen was actually received to finance health care, for example, but in 2022 it was back to the old culture. Mr. Magnette, in a recent interview, said austerity was a historical mistake. I obviously share the idea that austerity was a historical mistake. Simply, at some point, we also need to reconcile actions and words. It is not enough to say that austerity was a historical mistake and then to come back with austerity by 2022. Let us reconcile acts and words and adopt a budget that really puts an end to austerity!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u87	Madam President, of course we understand the difficulty of the current fiscal year. This fiscal year is supposed to reflect the political options that Vivaldi has taken and it is very complicated...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u88	You're starting wrong, Prime Minister! (...):She will vote against it now!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u89	I was ready to vote for it, but now... Blague aside, so I was saying that we understand the difficulty of the exercise that is yours for now. This is an unprecedented fiscal year in several respects, given the instability of economic parameters. At this level, of course, this is something that we take into account when we intervene on the files. This budget document is also intended to reflect the policy options that you have identified in your government agreement. We must recognize that because of the uncertainty surrounding the economic parameters, but also perhaps because the agreements are not progressing sufficiently within your majority for some issues, we do not find the concrete political translation of your choices. I will take as an example the interdepartmental provisions, for which, of course, additional resources are provided – especially for security policies and therefore, God knows if it is necessary, for police and justice – but we will still have to wait for the next budgetary adjustment to see how this money will be allocated. I am thinking mainly of justice, because we have not obtained very clear answers on this subject. I would like to remind you of a few points on which we would like to draw your particular attention. First of all, it is about working with the opposition. As we have shown on several occasions, we are able to bring extremely constructive ideas. Most of the amendments we tabled in the various committees were rejected, although they were not very political, but rather constructive. In the present situation, to freeze in a position of "majority against opposition" has no meaning, and we know that. We have reached out to you on several occasions and will do so in the same way, while maintaining the necessary vigilance in the areas of concern to us. In this case, we are concerned about a policy of anticipating the health crisis, which is coherent and cohesive. You know that the lack of cohesion also leads to a lack of public support for the public message you want to convey. That is why it is important that you can put order in your ranks, so that everyone sings the same score. Refinancing health and justice is an essential priority, which we have always defended and which is also reflected in the government statement. Therefore, we would like you to initiate the first one to translate these guidelines into strong budgetary decisions. And the ambitious management of recovery and not a sprinkle that would be territorial or electoral and that would make no sense. You will also need to put a link with the federated entities so that this revival makes sense and continues. That's indispensable. I will conclude with all the institutional issues on which we cannot skate. I know that this has been one of our major weaknesses, our Achilles' heel in managing this pandemic and, in particular, in health for which the lack of cohesion, the dispersion of decisions and the lack of coherence have been a real problem. We have the impression that you are doing exactly the opposite that what all health actors, but also the citizens, are asking: that is, a greater concentration of federal policies in order to combat this pandemic effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u90	Thank you very much. The general discussion concluded. We will begin the thematic discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u91	Welcome, Minister Dedonder.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is with some humility that I speak here after the spitant budget debate in the context of the thematic debates. We have already discussed the issue of defence in committee. We have discussed it in four meetings. I trust that we will be able to conclude the debate on the subject in one sitting here today. Madam Secretary, we have had interesting discussions. During most of my time in this committee, I have tried to carry out my duties as chairman as neutral as possible. And that is not always easy, as the President here knows. Anyway, we were able to get to know your policy ambitions and you have corrected me if I have misunderstood how the Defence Committee works and introduced me to the temperament of its members. Madam Secretary, I will begin by complimenting you on a number of things. That's always good. I always try to conduct a debate as intellectually correct as possible. My first point is not really a compliment, but I do want to say it. You have been faithfully in post the whole time of the committee meetings. You have followed the debates well. That may be said, and that graces you. They were long debates, spread over several days. You were available to Parliament all the time. Secondly, our group is also very satisfied with some of the points in your policy statement. After all, the guidelines of the previous Swedish policy do not remain complete but largely unchanged. This confirms the 2030 Strategic Vision and the Military Programming Act. It reassures us that there is no tabula rasa in that area. You do speak of an actualization. I hope that this term is not a disguised expression to throw overboard the good elements contained in the note. Madam Minister, it is true that there is an urgent need for an update, and we are prepared to take part in and implement it. There are other positive elements in your policy statement. After the investments there is the focus on staff, on hybrid warfare, on which you oppose the necessary capabilities, on the partnership with NATO, on the involvement of Parliament, on the development of a national security strategy and, of course, on the extra barracks in East Flanders. All this can very much support our group. It was not mentioned so extensively in your note, but yesterday we could also take note of the solution to the insurance questions for the military. That too is good news and you have our support for it, Madam Secretary. However, we would like to stress a number of points. Some will consider them critical. Firstly, the budget and the staff. We have been working on a modern and valuable staff policy in committee, on the initiative of the PS Group last year. I believe that all the groups agree that defence personnel will be the working point for the next few years. The previous legislature worked on investment, capacity. There was a programming law for 9.2 billion euros and there were capacities of all kinds. There is now a need to work on personnel policy. That that should be the focus for those who would be part of the government was written in the stars. We support the plea to make Defense an attractive employer, to focus on recruitment, to avoid the outflow and to keep the remuneration under review. We support all these elements. But if we dig a little deeper into the figures that we have received, it turns out to be a number dance. For example, when we learned about the military quota, we had to find that the number of active soldiers for 2021 is falling below the magical 25,000. You want to solve that by doing 10,000 more recruitments. Well, that sounds like a good communication. Whether you can do that effectively, we are all concerned about that, all the more in view of what is on the shelf, the challenges facing us, and the legislative proposal that will be put to the vote tomorrow. It is essential for us to be able to recruit men and women who have capacities, who are physically capable of being deployed and able to operate in an unsafe international context. We must not be talking about social employment. Our military must really be able to be deployed on land, at sea, in the air and also on the global web. It remains to be seen whether this will happen. If we look at the investments, we wonder what additional investments will be made. An ambitious military programming law has been adopted in the last legislature. It is in progress and many programmes have already been ordered, but it is still not clear to us even though we have been able to have a good debate for four days in what additional capacity, in what additional investments the government will provide. Are there any additional investments on top of the military programming law? It is still not quite clear to us. I'm joining the foreign missions. In terms of both the mandate of these missions and the budgets for them, I would like to explain something. The note states that the international mandate must fit into the framework of the UN, the European Common Security Policy and the Common Security and Defence Policy and within the remit of NATO. Well, that sounds good, but what can't it be? What forms of coalition are excluded? The subject has been discussed extensively in committee, but the question is the following. There is an international coalition operating in the Middle East. Departing from Jordan, we are now flying to Iraq and Syria. IS terrorists still manage too much to cross the border between Iraq and Syria. With the mandate given in Parliament, we have ensured that the government can effectively deploy F-16s over Syria. If there were to be a future mission of this kind, would it be within the framework of the UN, the European Common Security Policy and the Common Security and Defence Policy and within the remit of NATO, to which you refer in your policy paper? That is still not clear to us, but it must be possible for us to do so. Let us now look at the budgets for foreign missions. In the meantime, you have been able to explain your operational plan in committee. If I'm honest, that operational plan and your future foreign missions doesn't exude too much ambition. Public communication about this does seem different, but in fact it is not as innovative as it is when the budgets are sidelined. We've had a corona year. In 2020, not many foreign missions can continue, because of circumstances that everyone understands. But if we look at the evolution from 2020 to 2021, fiscal growth is nil. Then the question is how the tasks will be carried out effectively. The focus is placed on the Sahel, and people want to expand things around Mali. We understand that Operation Barkan has not yet been decided, but it is included in the plan as explained in the committee last week. If this government chooses to focus its foreign operation fully on the Sahel, Madam Minister, then we would like to warn you. Not only because it makes us a full subdivision of the French army, but this one-sided focus also means that we can be less active in other regions, such as the Middle East or our eastern borders. In this respect, we can build less know-how and be less active. Suppose it evolves into an army that is committed on the one hand to the Sahel and on the other hand to help the nation, then we are not your ally. Thirdly, NATO has been extensively discussed. The views on this matter are well known. We were reassured to read that NATO's commitments are being confirmed. We held on to our hearts, especially in connection with statements made by the last legislature to one of your predecessors, Steven Vandeput and Sander Loones. What sp.a and Ecolo-Green thus proclaimed to the Swedish Government, in their aversion to NATO, made us hold on to our hearts. We are reassured about the wording and curve that the left-wing parties have taken. There is still some uncertainty, not so much in your policy statement, but in the position of those parties, about nuclear deterrents, which is one of the pillars of NATO. NATO has ensured that we have been able to live here for 70 years in peace and security. One of the important safety pillars is nuclear deterrent. If the answer is rather ambiguous, especially by Ecolo-Green and sp.a., then we are still worried. I am pleased that your policy statement says that it is about the integrated NATO strategy, including nuclear deterrents. Now I come to the cyber component. Hybrid warfare must be combatable by hybrid weapons. I therefore fully agree that we need to invest in cyber security on the global web. However, the question arises as to whether it should be a fully-fledged component. A component has a top, a superstructure, an administration, framework, executives and subordinate executives. In essence, we want capacity to be available that can really be used, I am thinking of specialists and computers. In the story of the cyber component, we would like to give it to you. Madam Secretary, invest in cyber technology and in cyber specialists, but not in a fully-fledged component. Please don't let us turn this into a Mexican army. My penultimate point concerns cooperation with the Netherlands. I have already made this clear in committee, but unfortunately I have not received an answer. Unfortunately, I have to say that the policy statement always refers to France and to good cooperation with France, even when it comes to frigates, in which area we are working excellently with the Netherlands. You seem not to be able to mention the Netherlands, but to refer to France. That does not satisfy me, which worries me. I hope, Madam Minister, that you will soon use your reply to the Chair to clarify that possible misunderstanding. Possibly, because I can hardly imagine. We work well with the Netherlands in the field of the Navy, in the area of the air component. In many ways we work together with the Netherlands. It can't be the intention to take that down. Madam Minister, I would ask you to state very clearly here later that cooperation with the Netherlands will be strengthened. I am not in favour of maintaining it, but of strengthening and further developing cooperation with the Netherlands. Finally, Madam President, cooperation with Parliament. A lot of fine words, good commitments, basically full agreement. In my opinion, we have taken a false start on defence-related matters over the last few weeks. Let me give you a few examples. Firstly, our constructive amendments that we had tabled to Mr Calvo's plea for an appreciation of the discussion of the policy statement have all been voted down. All right, that's life majority and opposition. Constructive amendments which are a little more sensitive and voted away, I can imagine. But even the easy ones, with possible agreement, were voted off. Secondly, an amendment of the Rules of Procedure to allow the Committee on Army Procurement to be kept public, if necessary, has been voted down. That is not your responsibility, Madam President, but I would like to give it to you. Thirdly, the proposal on physical testing was extended here yesterday and discussed with the necessary animosity. Let's be honest, Madam Secretary, that bill was supposed to be a bill. The fact that it is a legislative proposal is, at least, unfortunate. I even had the impression during the discussion that not all the authors had already read it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u93	Nobody.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u94	Mr Francken says "no one." I'm telling you, not everyone had read it. I find it difficult for a legislative proposal to be chased by Parliament in this way. There is no doubt that there are examples of this in the past. If, however, we are talking, we are talking and we are making big statements about transparency and Parliament's involvement, please set an example of our own. My final example is the draft law on the military quota. The paper was filed the day before yesterday. We'll vote on it tomorrow. That's faster than the light. There has been a debate with difficulty. Madam Secretary, please take Parliament seriously. Our party, our group, has been very accommodating during these various debates despite the temperament of some people. I have correctly observed my position as chairman by, as soon as I knew that there was a possibility of a draft law coming, calling the committee together in the context of my neutral role. Nor has our group asked for a second reading or for hearings on any bill or draft law, in particular the military quota bill or the physical testing bill. So we haven't blocked anywhere. I would like to underline that. We haven't blocked anywhere. I hope everyone realizes that we haven't blocked anywhere. For us, defence is much more important than a political game. For us, that is the essence. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I therefore hope for some reciprocity. I hope that there will be some respect for the opposition. After all, the current government has no majority in Flanders. Show respect for the Flemish majority when we place items on the agenda. Madam Minister, I am also counting on you to answer questions. I asked you a lot of questions during the budget debate. I didn't get answers to all the questions. That's how it works. I can understand that. I will certainly come back to my questions at another meeting. However, I am also counting on you to provide correct and correct information. The recent period has been a number of unfortunate moments, but they are over. It is now time to express some New Year's wishes. I assume that we will be able to work better together in the Committee on Defence in 2021. I hope that with your draft law on the military quota of 2022 and with other draft laws, you will come to Parliament more quickly. I also hope that you will not sneak around packaging draft laws as legislative proposals to speed things up. I hope you realize that the N-VA is your greatest ally when it comes to a stronger defense. I wish all military and all colleagues who have a warm heart for Defence a fantastic 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u95	Madam President, I would like to comment on a number of points raised by Mr Buysrogge. It is noted that he is pleased that he should not be chairman of the committee. He can now kick ass as a Member of Parliament. I believe that in the view of the N-VA on Defense, there are a number of things that I have not seen in recent years. I find that rather paradoxical, and it is also about strange things. For example, European cooperation on defence has been discussed a number of times. You have recently shown yourselves to be a reasonable critic of PESCO, this ambitious European military cooperation. I find that strange, because everyone realizes that we need more European cooperation in this area. You are also critical when it comes to operations in the Sahel, along with our help to the nation. You're wondering why we're doing that? You're also critical. I thought the N-VA used to say that the presence in the Sahel is important because of its impact on migration flows and so on. Now you're talking critically about operations in the Sahel. I don't quite understand. After all, I believe that stability in the Sahel is important not only for the sake of migration but also for other reasons. You said that the socialist and green families had to swallow their aversion to NATO. Where do you get that we have an aversion to NATO? We were and are still critical of NATO. That has two reasons. Firstly, military cooperation in NATO is very often at the expense of increased cooperation on defence in Europe, of which we are absolutely in favour. Secondly, we remain critical of a NATO which autonomously decides to engage in international military operations and acts as a very heavy political body. We have a different vision. We now see in the coalition agreement that the emphasis is just more on European military cooperation and that, in very clear terms, a final international mandate is required for a military international operation. Those principles are very clear, in black and white in the coalition agreement. This reflects our comments in the debates on NATO in recent years. With regard to nuclear weapons, there is no point in getting rid of the fact that it is a very difficult debate. That's the core of NATO's military doctrine. In the coalition agreement, however, this is a first step towards Belgium being the first NATO Member State to take a positive view of the UN nuclear weapons ban treaty. That's important. "The government will examine in the coming years what positive impetus that treaty can give to nuclear disarmament." We are the only NATO Member State with such a reference in the coalition agreement. Furthermore, we are abstaining from a very clear commitment from our ministers to make every effort at international level for nuclear disarmament. However, we have never said that this should be done unilaterally. We have said in many debates that it would be extremely unwise in today's world to give up all nuclear weapons unilaterally. That must be done with international cooperation. NATO can be a certain framework, the non-proliferation treaty can be a certain framework, as can the UN ban treaty. In other words, the balance has now been restored by the coalition agreement. Are we there yet? Not by a long shot, but we'll see what's possible for years to come. Furthermore, I would like to point out that your group has recently presented a Community defence framework in its statements. You are now pretending that the Vivaldi government is primarily committed to cooperation with France and no longer with the Netherlands. The Minister may be able to confirm this later, but I do not read anywhere in the policy intentions that we would be less committed to cooperation with the Netherlands. On the contrary, cooperation with the Netherlands is an example in the European Union, especially when it comes to the Navy. I do not read anywhere that we would phase that out in favour of cooperation with France. We are working with France and we will do so in the coming years, Mr Buysrogge, just as we have done in recent years under the Swedish Government, with an N-VA Minister of Defence. There is a joint pilot training and cooperation in the army, but since you are in the opposition, it is suddenly framed as if the Vivaldi government is kneeling down for France. Where do you get all that? I don't think that's going to go far. What is important in the defence plans, including for us, is that the soil in that defence budget is being removed. The defence budget will be increased, whatever it takes. It may not be the most pleasant edition for some, but it is an issue that is needed in a society that considers security important. Attention to staff and a better staff status are the main focus of the Minister's policy plans. We have already had the opportunity to have that debate. That too is very important for our group, as well as for European cooperation, which I have already mentioned. The ambition in the policy plans and in the policy paper is to bring as much transparency as possible into the defence matter and as much cooperation as possible with Parliament. In this sense, it is an ambitious policy plan, based on a realistic budget. It is not an illusory policy plan that is not overwhelmed by the budget. On the contrary, there are policy plans, there is a policy vision and there are also budgets.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u96	I'm sorry, but a number of factual inaccuracies have been said. Words are being put in my mouth that I have not spoken at all. I think I have the right to say a few words about the claim that we are opposed to interventions in the Sahel. I don't know where you're getting that. Did I ever say that? I don't think so. I simply warned against a unilateral deployment of all our military forces in that region. That's what I said. We are now active on three theatres. There's a fourth theater on the table. I would warn against sending all our capabilities to the Sahel. That's just a warning I gave you. Let's get that straight. We are certainly in favour of the theatres where we are now active. Two years ago, we made a place visit. But just to get involved in a story because the French are asking us to become active in Operation Barkhane, we have questions, on the one hand for strategic reasons and on the other because that operation would absorb other capacities from us. I am satisfied because you yourself admit that you are bored with NATO's nuclear deterrent. It's the first time I've heard you admit it. But I trust that you will support the level of ambition of the government, namely that one of NATO's key pillars is precisely nuclear deterrent. I can't see your face anymore. That's annoying. I trust that Ecolo-Green will support the government's ambition, the nuclear deterrent. When it comes to the active contribution to nuclear disarmament, I would like to point out that we did not hear so long ago that our own Belgian diplomats made an active contribution to the UN Security Council against that treaty. Or am I that wrong? I don't understand your story very well. When it comes to the fact that we would communitize defence, that really is the world upside down. There is no cooperation with the Netherlands anywhere in the policy statement. I haven't counted the number of times the name France comes up, but it's huge. Then we must not say that the N-VA is turning it into a Community matter again. But it is the minister who, with her policy intentions, at least gives the impression, and has not contradicted it in committee, that Paris is being looked at, while we should also look at The Hague once in a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u97	Mr Minister, in the Committee on Defence, we have the habit of debating it extensively by the chairman of the committee. I think I can say that there are often common objectives in this area, across party boundaries of opposition and majority, not least as far as the interests of the military and of defence are concerned. There are therefore many important issues to deal with, and this has certainly been the case in recent weeks in connection with the Minister of Defence's policy statement. That debate took four weeks. As in the committee, before I look at the main lines of the policy paper, I would like to begin by thanking and thanking our soldiers, who have once again worked for our security in recent years and, in addition, with assistance in the covid crisis, have shown that defence can always be counted on if there is a need for medical, logistical or other assistance. The people of Defense deserve all our unsophisticated thanks and appreciation. Having said that, I would like to express my general reservations. The government has set out a number of priority axes in its government statement, including safety. That is entirely right for the Flemish interest. When we talk about collective security, Defence is of course a very important department, which deserves a solid and consistent form of leadership, but which has suffered over the last few years and even decades from a persistent lack of long-term vision and budget. The fact that, during the budget negotiations, defence was always to be the lock-up point on the opposite budgetary input has made defence what it is now and perhaps still will be, if we look at your policy plans. The department is still in a deep crisis at the moment, while facing major challenges and opportunities. The attraction, the often abominable infrastructure, the purchase of solid equipment and the needs, coupled with the operational commitment in foreign theatres and international engagements, are only a few. In your policy paper and in your policy statement, you have given a first look at your plans for Defense. We've been getting some answers in the last few weeks. I would like to thank you on behalf of our group for that. You have followed these debates very extensively and very carefully. However, I would like to make the following reservations and recommendations. As far as the overall strategic vision is concerned, it must be said that my group lacks a concrete and realistic, defined strategic vision. For example, the hybrid threats posed by a number of foreign powers are not identified. What powers you are talking about and what kind of disinformation or populism you are talking about in your policy letters, we are talking about guessing. I suspect it is about interference and populism of Islamic regimes, such as our NATO ally Turkey, whose Erdogan regime wants to play the other Member States against each other, or about the cyberthreat of authoritarian states such as China to our Western society. I suspect so, because nowhere in your policy paper is there any mention of China, nor of Russia, even though these powers do pose a threat to our democratic institutions and economic prosperity. They do so through industrial espionage, distortion of competition and hacking. That is not specified anywhere in your policy paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u98	Mrs Ponthier, the position of your party, the Flemish Interest, vis-à-vis NATO, I find particularly remarkable and unclear. I've been intrigued by that subject for years. You say that the government does not choose a party on cyber threats, because no names are mentioned. Now, which names do you think should be mentioned? According to any NATO report, of which I may, by the way, be aware, the biggest cyber threat comes from Russia. What is your position vis-à-vis Russia? I really want to know, because that's been intriguing me for years. Which are the links with Russia? You say no names are mentioned. Now, the biggest threat of fake news and cyber threats and cyberattacks on NATO Member States comes from Russia. What position does your party take vis-à-vis Russia? I am asking this because I see that several of your colleagues from radical right-wing parties in Europe are very well placed with Mr Putin on the Kremlin. There is also funding, but I will not comment on it. However, I have been wondering for years what the position is with regard to Russia. Can you answer that question, Mrs Ponthier?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u99	Mr Francken, you should have let me speak or you should have listened better. We are indeed asking for this clarification in the policy statements and policy papers. You know as well as I do that if we do not specifically identify the threat, we cannot focus on it either. I have asked here which threats were meant and which should have been appointed in our opinion. That is, on the one hand, our NATO ally Turkey. I can certainly appeal to you as NATO delegation leader of our parliamentary assembly. We are looking at this very critically. You'll probably do the same. You are making this a caricature by perhaps saying that Turkey would not be a threat. As far as we are concerned, Turkey should have been named in these policy statements so that we also know what we are up against. The Minister didn't do that. In addition, I have indeed said that these threats also stem from Russia and China. You didn't listen to that. I said that both China and Russia should be appointed as the main threats to our democratic institutions, our economic prosperity through industrial espionage, distortions of competition and hacking. As has already been said, we are missing the clarification in the Minister's policy statements. I can't be any clearer about that. The risk of radicalisation, violent extremism and terrorism is cited as a priority security threat in the policy letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u100	Mrs Ponthier, we have been colleagues in the NATO Parliament for many years and I very much appreciate your commitment to the transatlantic alliance, but I am glad you mention Russia. In recent years, I have seen cases where some of your party colleagues have found it particularly pleasant to take a picture with Mr Putin or some Russian diplomats. They went in the photo on Crimea, which is occupied Ukrainian territory, with the necessary Smirnoff and such, but who am I to say anything about it, no problem, that can all. It concerns some of your fellow party members. I'd like to see that cleared up anyway. You're condemning Russia for cyber attacks. I see on social media some of your partymates are extremely close friends with Russia, and not only in Moscow. Moscow is a beautiful city. I can recommend it to anyone. Why don't you go to Moscow? They were also in Crimea, occupied territory, occupied Ukrainian territory, very controversial. Some of your fellow party members, and not the least, it is about big hotshots, the thick sharks, among others from the province of Antwerp, like to bake cakes on Crimea and make friends with the Russians. You say here that we must name the Russians, that something must be done about these cyber attacks. I think that's fantastic, but can you say that in your own party? The left of your party and the radical right in Europe with Russia have troubled me, as a transatlantic ally for 30 years. Mr Salvini, Mrs Le Pen, they are all being dealt with on the left with Russia. Your friends in Austria, the government fell because of it, in Ibiza. You condemn Russia as an enemy of the West, of the free speech, of our freedoms and assets and of our Constitution. I'm thrilled to hear that. But is that true for everyone in your party? That's what I'm wondering.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u101	Madam President, I would like to make three points. Firstly, I read an interview this weekend with your party chairman in De Tijd, Mr Francken. In it he falsely claims that Flemish Interest in its opposition role in this Chamber would aim its arrows at the N-VA instead of Vivaldi. That is not the case with my knowledge. That is certainly not the way I stand up here. But I'm gonna tell you the opposite today. Secondly, I find it very moving how you are watching us very closely and how you are monitoring the social media channels of all my fellow party members. I'm not doing that. I'll follow what your chairman tells me and who he's taking a picture with. You yourself mentioned Marine Le Pen. I'm not gonna bring in the old photos with her father Jean-Marie and your chairman. I am certainly not going to blame myself for the tactics that the left and other opponents also use against you, especially gratuite insinuations and guildy by association. What do we have to do with malpractice in an Austrian government? You can explain that to me. Our party position is clear, Mr Ponthier has made it clear. You can now come back to that seven times, that we are used to it from you, if you do not like the answer. Don't worry, I'm not gonna blame you for sexism. I am not going down to gratuitous insinuations and techniques that your opponents use against you, but I wanted to have said so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u102	Mrs. Pas, I'm better used to you. I have been struggling for a long time with the position of the Flemish Interest on NATO, and you are struggling with that yourself. Tom Van Grieken wrote in his book that NATO is not an organisation that Flemish Interest can participate in. Within the Flemish Interest Group in the Defence Committee, there is at least ambiguity with regard to NATO: Mrs Ponthier is rather pro-NATO, Mr Creyelman is rather pro-Russia. [[Rumor]] That is a remark I have been able to make for a long time. I can only observe that my intervention causes a great deal of animosity, as always. It would be particularly interesting to clarify what the radical right actually has with Russia. I find that very interesting, that really intrigues me. What does Le Pen have to do with Russia? What does Salvini have to do with Russia? What does Wilders have to do with Russia? Those are your friends in the ID Group in Europe. What does the Flemish interest have to do with Russia? Actually, that's been intriguing me for years. You say I keep an eye on the social media of your partymates, but so do you with ours. You have convinced many of our constituents to vote for your party, just because you are watching our social media. When I see people of Flemish interest festating on Crimea, occupied Ukrainian territory on the Black Sea, I wonder what the hell that is about Russia. I am very clear about this, for the N-VA Group, Russia is absolutely the enemy, it is not a partner. In 2010, we wrote a NATO doctrine stating that Russia is a partner. We are now going to write a new NATO doctrine for 2030, and the first thing that all the Member States have agreed is that we should delete Russia as a partner after all that has happened: the unlikely attacks and poison killings in Western countries and the occupation of both Georgian and Ukrainian territories. We must say that Russia is no longer a partner for NATO Member States. For us, that is clearly an enemy. Madam Minister, many of our military operations, including in 2021, are located in the Baltic States, in the sea area around the Russian sea area in the north. A lot of our F-16 operations are located in Poland, on the border with Russia. For the N-VA it's as ready as a cue that Russia is not a partner, but an enemy. My question, which apparently leads to a great deal of nervousness, is what is the position of the Flemish Interest and radical right vis-à-vis Russia. Is Russia an enemy or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u103	Mr Francken, I would remind you that questions should be addressed to the government. It is not intended to start a discussion between Members during the budget discussion. The ministers are waiting for your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u104	Madam President, I am well aware that the intention is to discuss the budget and question the Minister. However, if Mr Francken likes to point his arrows at the Flemish Interest, I am happy to answer his attack. Firstly, I repeat the argument I have just mentioned. I'm not in the Guilty by Association game. Mr Francken, you claim that they are all our friends because we are in the same group. However, do you agree with everything that your Spanish friend, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I shall also call the party your friend, Mr Vox, in Spain, in relation to the Catalans? I could also put them all on the same footing if I were to lower myself to the techniques you are using. I understand your frustration. You probably imagined another seat, but the voter decided otherwise. You're very responsive. So I may have hit a delicate spot. I note, however, that in addition to the social media and the photos of all Members of this House, you are also looking into the books they write. I hope you have not only read the book of Tom Van Grieken, but also the Community emptiness of my hand. Then you would know what disastrous consequences your Community silence has had. I'll give you that by the way. I'm very glad you're taking up that literature. You should've done that before when you were on the buttons yourself. After all, there are very interesting things in it that you could have done when you were at policy level. It is not clear to you what our position is with regard to NATO. However, our party is always very clear about that. We're a member of the club. As long as one is a member of the club, one also adheres to the rules. That does not mean, however, that people should not be critical of that club. This does not mean that we cannot ask questions about Turkey's continuing membership of that club. That's only logical. We think ahead. Why should my party chairman not ask himself in his book what would happen if we were to leave NATO and what good scenarios would be attached to it? We think ahead. We don't like it on the spot. Mrs Ponthier, who I hope will be able to continue her speech and build on her ship ownership in a moment, has been clear enough. Mr Francken, you can repeat the same question twenty-seven times and perhaps you would like to start a cold war again. However, this game has gone on long enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u105	Madam President, allow me to address Mr Francken. Mr Francken, we have heard so many times about your old coal intervention that I am counting on you to finally take it off. It doesn't make me nervous. You're like when you hear the word "NATO" getting nervous. This reminiscent of your motion for a resolution, which, to your great discontent, has never been approved in the Chamber, so that you have not been able to complete your interviews. That's further on your account. Our critical view of NATO will not change. Colleagues, the danger of radicalisation, violent extremism and terrorism is cited by the Minister and the Government as a priority security threat, but not exactly mentioned here either. There is no mention in the policy statement of the term 'Islamic', 'Islamic' or even'religious' terrorism. As has already been said, if one does not want to or dare to name the problem with precision, or recognize it, then a solution can never really be worked out. However, our Defence has a key role to play in the fight against Islamic terrorism, in close cooperation, of course, with the security services, the police and the justice system. Both on the foreign stage and in the interior, that is to say, our army plays an important role in preventing and tackling this religiously inspired terror. In future, therefore, Madam Minister, we shall be spared the guesswork. The initiative in the context of the National Security Strategy, the improvement of the cyber capacity of Defence, is, of course, to be encouraged. Although the policy paper also gives it an aura of vagueness and conditionality, as it is added immediately that an agreement should first be reached with all the partners involved, our group believes that this should be encouraged. With regard to the noble goal you set yourself of creating a fully-fledged cyber component by 2025, we reiterate that the pressure that this will put on the already very tight defence budget remains a strong challenge, as attracting IT workers is a very expensive issue. Since that's what the private sector is about, it won't be any different for the Defense Department. In our view, it seems more logical to improve and deepen cooperation between the security and intelligence services, such as ADIV and State Security, and Defence. That is why we also made a recommendation in the policy discussion, which unfortunately was not retained, but a few days ago, through the first step you took together with Minister of Justice Van Quickenborne, we noticed a step in the right direction. You have refuted our criticism of the fact that your presentation gave priority to helping the nation and civil society, and the foreign military and humanitarian missions were only second priority. You say that you regard both tasks as a priority. You must forgive our suspicions, we may be linking back a little too quickly to Mr Flahaut's period. We hope that this suspicion will prove to be unjustified. Human resources policy, the HR policy of Defence, is a very important issue that will produce strong discussions, although I think there is a great consensus on making Defence more attractive as an employer. The fact that you want to recruit 10,000 people during this legislature is a good point of attention. For our group, improving wage conditions seems to be an essential part of making the military profession more attractive. In addition, in order to increase attractiveness and awareness, traineeships are also envisaged for young people between 14 and 18 years of age. We recognise the need to take initiatives in this area to give young people real warmth to a career in the defence sector, but here too we warn against the pressure that this will put on existing defence personnel, which is already under very heavy pressure from staff shortages. Directly linked to this is the training that comes in the third degree of secondary education to prepare students for a career in the safety sector. This is, of course, also to be encouraged, but the security sector is very broad. We believe that this could have been an explicit opportunity to encourage a career in the military, given the pressing need for human capital in the defence sector. In Flanders this is already being worked out, in Wallonia and Brussels it remains silent in that respect. Perhaps the government can accept our recommendation and strongly urge the other Communities to do the same in their education programmes. Providing low-educated profiles with maximum career opportunities is also a focus. Do not misunderstand us, even if they do not have the relevant qualifications that can be a noble objective, let us be clear, but it has already been said by Mr Buysrogge, defence policy must not be seen as a social elevator and must not be reduced to a social employment project. Our army needs new employees, but they need to be qualified and motivated in the first place. That must be the basic starting point. I will certainly not go back to the discussion of the legislative proposal that we discussed yesterday in plenary, proposing that physical sports tests be carried out during at least one recruitment year. I think that's where we missed the ball, but this was dealt with extensively yesterday. Mr Buysrogge, the work-private balance due to the geographical distribution of quarters can, of course, be accepted because it will improve the general well-being of the military. Fortunately, a solution is in sight for the insurance problems of domestic soldiers who are injured or died in the event of terrorism. Defence and insurers have concluded an agreement which will soon ensure military security for all risks, without the high premiums, including for operations within the country. It is bizarre that our recommendation on this matter was voted down only two weeks ago by all the majority parties and the PVDA. The vague and abstract theorem in your policy paper has thus become concrete, and good. Furthermore, we would have liked to have seen in your policy plans a concrete revaluation of the medical component of our armed forces. That is a missed opportunity, since this component has certainly proved to be very valuable in these circumstances, with its staff and its organisation. We all experienced this during the work visit, for which I would also like to thank the chairman of the committee. We've seen that the summit works there, in all respects. We miss that specific mention in your policy paper. However, there are also a number of challenges and opportunities where there is still a lot of work to be done. I also asked you a written question about the field hospital coming up. I got an answer to that, too. We are looking forward to its practical implementation at the moment. A serious tooth can be added to that. Last week or two weeks ago we indeed discussed the international obligations in the Committee on Defence when discussing the operation plan abroad. Foreign operations are indeed mainly aimed at combating Islam terrorism at the moment. There is also a strong commitment in the Sahel region. The deployment in Afghanistan will be phased out in 2021. Our group is not unhappy with that. If we are to keep the commitments we have made in the past and perhaps extend them with Operation Barkhane, then we really need to think carefully about an exit strategy. I really insist: the Flemish Interest was the only group that mentioned this in the framework of the OIR. We also made this recommendation in a recommendation, and that recommendation was voted down here a few weeks ago by the majority parties, and then the same majority parties later called for an exit strategy on foreign operations in the media. I find that very regrettable. Nevertheless, we must dare to argue for a common goal and we must certainly develop a real plan on exit strategy. We must also dare to advocate this with regard to our commitment in the Sahel region, and we must also be able to discuss a number of guarantees of commitment by the regional authorities against Islam fundamentalism, against illegal migration and against arms and human trafficking. The Flemish Interest supports foreign operations which aim to combat and, where possible, eradicate international Islamic terrorism. But, as has been said, when our soldiers risk their lives because of such dangerous operations on the ground, there must also be guarantees that these operations are meaningful and that our partners fully cooperate. We didn't see that in Afghanistan. There was no exit strategy, and we have borne the consequences of that. As has been said, we are pleased that this phase-out can finally take place. Then let's talk briefly about the nuclear approach. I'm just finishing up. The policy letter does not mention the government's nuclear plans. However, the coalition agreement states that there is a further intensification of the MPT to prevent the further proliferation of nuclear weapons, and that efforts should be made to phase out nuclear weapons. A nuclear-free Europe, who is not in favour of it now, if we look at it ideologically. The Belgian Government recently decided not to sign the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, Mr De Vriendt. Given the circumstances as far as we're concerned, it's not entirely illogical. A complete nuclear disarmament is a dangerous utopia. Democratic nuclear weapons states stick to their nuclear arsenal, just because also rogue states such as North Korea, Pakistan and China will not give up their nuclear weapons. Your Foreign Minister did express it explicitly in her policy paper, which is why I found it strange that you did not do so. However, you have indicated in the meantime that you will honour your commitment to the F-35. Your left-wing friends will see that, of course, it is necessary, but the committee's agenda will be relieved of this item in the near future, that is for sure. As far as the budgetary framework is concerned, I have received a very comprehensive reply from Secretary of State De Bleeker. It was very clarifying and I would like to thank her for that. It must be said that in your policy paper you clearly indicate what you want to spend the money on. You want to invest in recruitment, communication, better working conditions, barracks, cyber technology and infrastructure. At the same time, defence should continue to invest in European capacity shortages. A further objective is therefore to achieve a defence effort of 1.24% of pre-covid GDP in 2024 in order to align defence efforts with those of non-nuclear NATO counterparts by 2030. All the above promises are of course made in a tight budgetary context and in addition to the €500 million extra for 2021, you also want to achieve an efficiency exercise of 0.89 % on staff and operation. I hope, moreover, that this will also apply to your government appropriations, but we will evaluate that later. This, together, amounts to a saving of EUR 22 million. This leaves EUR 478 million of additional resources. I have to ask you the same question again as in committee. A euro can only be spent once, and given the number of plans you set out, I would like to know what you are going to spend the money on. Where do you place the concrete priority in the first period? That part is less clear. Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we can conclude that, as far as we are concerned, these policy plans place too much emphasis on the common foreign and defence policy, which is being developed by the EU. Inevitably, you want to continue working on a further erosion of the freedom of choice to develop our own sovereign defence policy, with our own accents and concerns, focused on our own specific interests. Indeed, there is also the lack of intense cooperation, which has paid off in recent years, with our Dutch partners. In this respect, we do not always consider your plans to be a healthy evolution. It is also until further notice, and I will give you the benefit of the doubt in that regard for the time being, fruitless search for the quick wins on the recapitalisation of defence personnel. The proposed progressive improvement in the salaries of defence workers is also not reflected in your plans, while those needs are very high at the moment. I admit, however, that you said this morning in committee that these negotiations with the trade unions are currently taking place very extensively. We look forward to the concrete implementation of that plan. I have already expressed the other reservations in detail in my speech. In general, we believe that the policy plans are covered in an aura of conditionality. There is also a conditionality with regard to the resources you are going to obtain from the European Defence Agency. There is a lack of concrete steps for reform and budgetary accountability. There is also a great deal to be evaluated, examined, considered, and consulted with other actors. Colleagues, those who had hoped for a very rapid improvement in the precarious situation in which the defence industry is currently in need of help. There is much to control for us as MEPs. We will not be ashamed of the confidence that our constituents have given us, and that is a great many, Mr Francken. We continue to fight for an adequate defence apparatus, in which the interests of our military and of our security are always universally stated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u106	Madam President, we had an incident in the Chamber last night in which a Member of the Chamber who I have known for many years, Mrs Matz, accused me of sexism. I have once again seen in the report today, Madam President, that you have welcomed the fact that you have fallen out of your role as President of the Chamber. I give a very interesting quote from the Rules of Procedure of the House of Commons in the United Kingdom: "Speakers must be politically immaterial. Therefore, on election the new Speaker must resist from their political party and remain separate from political issues even in retirement. Howver, the Speaker will deal with their constituents ' That's fine. The British Rules of Procedure do not, of course, apply to this country. I have also read the Rules of Procedure, and I quote: 'A chairman must be able to work together with groups that take very different positions'. I quote Rule 5 of your Rules of Procedure, Madam President, of the Chamber you are chairing, for the time being. By the way, in the original Rules of Procedure there is the male article everywhere, but I have inserted the female article not to be sexist. I quote Rule 5: 'The President raises the questions and puts them to the vote. The President should therefore only intervene in the debate in order to clarify the state of play. If he or she wishes to take part in the debate, he or she must leave his or her chair and take his or her place in the hemisphere. The chairman shall take part in the votes himself." You fell completely out of character in my eyes last night, and in the eyes of many. I even got Joel De Ceulaer's support, who would have thought? Do you have anything to add to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u107	I hear your question, Mr. Franken.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u108	Do you have anything to add to that? You're behind the applause?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u109	First of all, it's not an interrogation. Then, like you, I know the rules. Like you, I can read another article, Article 45: "Any imputation of ill-intention, any personal attack, any questioning from Member to Member of Parliament, any demonstration or interruption disturbing the order shall be prohibited." Yesterday, you really were at the limit of a call to order. As a matter of course, you have had constant and always the same questions addressed to the Minister only, not on the merits of the case, but on her personally. I just saw that Mrs Matz couldn't, exploded during the sitting and that all the Members, if some didn't applaud, thought no less clearly. What I told you was that you used your speaking time in an exaggerated way. I did not say anything in the debate at all. With regard to the substance of the debate, I have not taken a position. I have nothing else to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u110	I would very much like to answer that. Firstly, Madam President, by applauding me on the accusation of sexism, you have fallen out of your role as President of the Chamber. That is in the Rules of Procedure. I would once again like to quote Article 314 from the booklet handed out here to every schoolchild visiting the Chamber. Rule 314: "The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber and of the Senate show that the President must be above any discussion when conducting plenary sessions. For this reason, it is tradition in the Chamber, for example, that the President does not explain his possible abstention with a vote. The President may only intervene in a debate in order to clarify the state of the matter and to reduce the debate to the point under discussion. If he himself "wants to take part in the deliberations or to ask a question, he "leaves" or "he "takes the chair" or "he "takes it back after the end of the deliberations on that point." It's in the booklet you hand out to every schoolchild visiting the Chamber. There are many thousands a year. Corona makes it a little less, but normally there are so many. You know that, too. My interpretation, Madam President, is that yesterday evening you applauded the personal accusation, which you seem to be quite right to make, but which, in my view and in the eyes of many, including Joël De Ceulaer, is totally unjustified, has violated your own Rules of Procedure. You go back to an article in the Rules of Procedure, Article 45, saying that I would have personally attacked the Minister. Well, I dispute that on the merits. Do you know why? Because the debate on that bill has actually been going on for weeks, because that debate on Defense has been going on for 13 hours, in a correct way. I put a question to the Minister. I asked: "Mrs. Minister, are physical tests being carried out by the candidate-statutory soldiers at the moment?" The Minister replied: "No." And my answer was: "I think you do, I think you do not correctly reflect the truth." The Minister then intervened again and nuanced: "Since November no longer." I have never, in any way, attacked the Minister personally, as shown by the report that your services have published this morning. I didn't. That's not my style, I don't do that. You seem to have interpreted that differently. That's your right, that's right, but if you want to applaud someone who's completely gratuitous, out of the blue accusing me of sexism, which I find to be a particularly serious accusation, then you should step off your seat, go downstairs, sit down with the PS Group and applaud, not as President. I blame you for that. I've been here for many years, I've seen a lot of presidents and I just want to say that I haven't...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u111	Mr. Franken,...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u112	Now I'm being interrupted, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u113	Mr Franken, I've been listening patiently for a few minutes now. Let me say the same! You went back to the history of yesterday's session. I was there and I heard the exchanges. I don't agree with the one you're expressing. It is my right and it is your right not to agree with my perception of things. I'm reading another article. It is Rule 47 which states: "No one speaks twice on the same question, unless the Assembly decides otherwise." You broke that article yesterday. You broke several articles of our Rules of Procedure and that was unbearable last night. I told you. You spoke overly. You have used your speaking time in an exaggerated manner. I didn't say anything on the merits. I think that, now, we need to continue our discussions. The minister has been here for some time. Another minister is waiting. It's almost 8:00. We've just started the first theme and you're back on completely formal issues. I think it's time to go back to the bottom. That's what I was asking you yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u114	Madam President, there is a lack of reasoning. There is Mr. Franken and you, Madam President, but there is also the intervention of Mrs. Matz. What the President applauded, like others, is the principle that gender-based discrimination cannot take place. We all agree. You too. The error here was made by Ms. Matz who found that your intervention was gender-related. Let us applaud the fact that we do not agree with a gender intervention is normal. On the other hand, it is a mistake to think – I was there too – that your speech was about the fact that the minister is a woman. But the mistake was made by Mrs. Matz.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u115	I shall pass the floor to the minister so that we can finally finish. Mr Franken, you did the same thing as yesterday. The speaking time I have given you, you have used it for something other than the substantive debate. You just proved exactly what happened yesterday. Will you intervene on the merits of the case, Mr. Franken?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u116	Madam President, (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u117	If you speak of NATO or Defence, you will have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u118	Madam President, I will certainly do so. In any case, I do not understand your claim that you have that right. I believe that is not the case under the Rules of Procedure. However, I have sent you a message that you may have already received. I hope that we, as adults, can talk about this privately. I also hope that we will be able to work together properly in the coming years. That is my sincere hope and wish. I have always worked well with Mr Flahaut and Mr Dewael. I certainly hope I can work well with you, too. For the rest, the incident is closed to me without any problem. I would like to make a few comments on the government's policy and statements on this matter. In itself, I take note that the Flemish interest is critical of NATO and I am sure that I will follow it further. I would also like to mention this in the light of the fact that Green and the current purple-green government, in connection with arms trade, will proclaim that they will be the great pacifists in the coming years. That's very interesting. If there is one paragraph in the coalition agreement, which is really completely illegible, then it is the paragraph on nuclear disarmament. That paragraph is completely and completely illegible. I won't read it to you, because I'll be busy too long. He is the compromise of the compromise. He is the compromise between, on the one hand, Open Vld and MR, who are in favour of NATO cooperation, just as, of course, CD&V, who understands within a European framework that there must also be the courage within NATO to endorse the nuclear doctrine and that this cannot be otherwise. He is also the compromise of Green, Ecolo, the PS and sp.a, who are extremely bored with the fact that they have tabled so many legislative proposals to remove the nuclear weapons from Small Brogel, not equip the F-35s with DCA capacity, not to renew the nuclear weapons and to ensure that our fighter planes cannot carry nuclear weapons. What an improbably illegible paragraph! I will therefore be totally uncomfortable with that paragraph. I am simply looking at what the Belgian Government has been doing in practice since its swearing-in on 1 October 2020. I noticed that our Belgian diplomats in New York voted against the UN convention on the nuclear arms ban last week. They have done so on behalf of the Belgian Government and therefore also on behalf of Green and Ecolo, who should be the spokesmen of the peace association and of all pacifist organizations around it. They voted against. That's a fact. The talk in the coalition agreement is not readable. That piece contains ten unreadable sentences. I'm just looking at the facts. Mrs Wilmès and Mr De Croo swear very clearly on the nuclear doctrine. Mr De Vriendt, you have completely lost that battle. After all, Belgium voted against. For me personally, that's right. We cannot go along with the nuclear story within the NATO alliance, which is one of the basic pillars of the doctrine. No one is in favour of nuclear weapons, the N-VA is the biggest opponent of nuclear weapons, everyone in the Chamber is against nuclear weapons, nobody can be against nuclear weapons. No man of common sense can be for nuclear weapons. They are weapons of mass destruction and they must be removed, but as long as rogue states like North Korea have them and as long as many nuclear weapons are being developed, as in Iran, we must also have them at our disposal. That is my position, and that makes perfect sense. A little healthy-minded person sees that, too. At every new legislature, the first question from the Ecolo-Green Group is to the chairman of the Committee on Defence, who is also here, to organise hearings on nuclear weapons. They really want to go for nuclear disarmament. Then Professor Tom Sauer and the whole Guard will come and talk shame about the fact that nuclear weapons still exist. Green then puts forward proposals of resolution to get rid of them; Ecolo follows this example, and sp.a presents proposals not to equip our F35s with DCA capacity, not to mention the PS, the great friends of world peace. The hypocrisy is inappropriate. Now there's a government that we're not part of. That was not because of the votes, Mrs Pas, and the frustration is great, I admit, but it is not about that. However, ladies and gentlemen, you are in the government and it is very painful for you to have to swallow it. Mr De Vriendt, you referred to the UN arms treaty just now, but Belgium pushed the red button last week, on behalf of the Ecolo Green Group, on behalf of the PS Group, on behalf of the sp.a Group. If you do not agree to this, take it up with Minister Wilmès, with Belgian diplomacy, with the Prime Minister, so that they at least abstain. I tried that with the Marrakech Pact. It's a long story. We were consistent, but it didn't work. You do not, however. You are taking that and it is my right as a representative of the people to continue to point this out to you. We have tabled an amendment to the Belgian budget to reduce PESCO resources. The N-VA is not opposed to more European cooperation in the field of defence. The N-VA is the main advocate of increased European cooperation in the field of defence, but within NATO there is a great deal of nervousness among the non-EU NATO partners, namely Norway, the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada and Turkey, about exactly what is happening within that NATO budget and within that defence budget. That is why, as long as there is no clarity as to whether or not we are protecting our military market, we believe that we cannot allocate additional budgets to PESCO. First of all, we are asking for clarification, and I am doing so on behalf of a great many people, including in the Defense Department and internationally, about protecting our market. We agree with more defence cooperation. A major press conference was held today in the European Commission. The European Defence Fund has finally been launched. We have no problem with this, but what is actually happening? Can an American or a Canadian military company still sign up for a PESCO tender? That is a very specific question that I have been asking for weeks now. I'll take them to you, too, Madam Secretary. Perhaps you could shed some light on that today? I still haven't heard if that's possible or not. Finally, and that is my final point, because I am getting very nervous about some of my colleagues on my left, which I think is great. My final comment concerns the authorisation of weapons. What always frightens me very much, and I have been allowed to experience it myself as Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration................................................................................................................................................................................................. Mrs Khattabi, you were a champion in that, but other colleagues in the Chamber also found what the Swedish Government did in the area of migration unjustly, morally irresponsible and inferior. The right blames the left that it is naive and the left blames the right that it is human inferior. That's basically what it's all about. Right is always looking for an enemy, left is always looking for a victim, that's always the case. I've always looked at that with big eyes. After all, if there is one thing that really bothers me, it is that you in Wallonia, with Ecolo and the PS, issue weapons licences in the government, every day, to Saudi Arabia among others. I find that incredibly frazzling. You write in your federal government agreement, under pressure from Ecolo-Groen, a passage about disarmament that is unreadable, but in the Walloon government you issue weapons licenses to the royal guard of Saudi Arabia, to Salafist sheiks. Then you say: we were against CETA. Do you know who made the most money from CETA? The Walloon government. Through FN Herstal it has earned most of the licences, from the CETA agreement that Paul Magnette was so opposed to. What an unlikely irony. When one sits in politics for a long time, one can look at everything with a certain ironic smile, but when I saw it on the front page of De Tijd and L'Echo, I had to hold myself back. Paul Magnette was the great international warrior against free trade, who said: CETA, no way. He got a lot of votes with that. No way, we don't agree with CETA. Our Geert Bourgeois in the Flemish government was maddened by Paul Magnette's attitude, it was driving him crazy. I thought you said we couldn't. We had to approve CETA. The Walloon Government has still not approved CETA. In the meantime CETA exists and although it is still not final, it is still being applied. Who turns out to be the biggest net earner of CETA? The Walloon arms industry, FN Herstal, whose main shareholders are PS and Ecolo. It's probably ironic. You are the great moral knights, to fill the bags once more in the dive. Unlikely! I've never seen that before. I've been here 20 years, but I've never been there in my whole life. Then you make a coalition agreement where you try to teach us lessons about nuclear and other disarmament regimes. Treaties are being drawn up, we are going to decide whether campaigns are being conducted. Fantastic! How the hell can you justify that to yourself, since you're actually funding it yourself? I have a resolution ready to look at the flows of refugees. After all, we are paying EUR 470 million in asylum care. I will come back to that later in the discussions, because I have tabled an amendment on this. The initial budget for asylum reception was never higher than in the 2021 budget. More specifically, it concerns the budget section for refugee reception. Candidate refugees are being received in our centers of Fedasil. However, these refugees come here, among other things by the weapons of FN Herstal, which fires left on refugees in Saudi Arabia, in Yemen and in the Middle East. Because these people are coming here, money is being spent on them. Anyone who does not do so or who is critical of it is put in the corner like a dirty racist. It's similar to what I went through last night with the President of the Chamber. Anyone who makes a critical move will be killed intellectually. Onvoorstelbaar.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all these constructive remarks. [[Applause from the European Democratic Group]] ) Like that, everyone can be applauded. I think I'll change my way of doing things. Depending on the different questions, I propose to start with the budget. It seems useful to me to return to some important factual elements. Where do we come from on the budget? You will certainly remember that the previous government had imposed savings on Defence at the beginning of the legislature, for more than EUR 1.6 billion, EUR 230 million in 2015, EUR 2 287 million in 2016, EUR 346 million in 2017, EUR 3370 million in 2018 and EUR 415 million in 2019. These are drastic savings that the government has tried to alleviate with one shots at unexpected events and financial commitments that it could not possibly bear. In this context, staff were often the adjustment variable and the means of operation were widely extended, of the order that much infrastructure is outdated and in some cases completely obsolete. The decision to invest in equipment was certainly necessary, but the invoice is borne by the current government, at the expense of the indispensable investments in infrastructure and HR. Today, therefore, a rebalancing is necessary. If we find ourselves facing such a challenge in terms of recruitment, it is because we have this delay to catch up, which was dug up in the previous legislature. Indeed, it is a challenge. You've been a lot of people to say. I am fully prepared to take up this challenge. This is a challenge all the more so as, as indicated earlier, we want to recruit 2,500 people in the year 2021 and a total of 10,000 people in the legislature. The challenge is great. I realize that in previous years such ambitions did not take place, whatever I can hear here. In 2015, the ambition was to recruit 700 people. In 2016, the ambition was to recruit 900 people. In 2017, 1,160 people and in 2018 1,570 people. Today, I propose 2,500 people and we come to say that it is below the norm. All right! What about today, budgetaryly? In 2021, the Defence budget will grow by more than 500 million euros, half a billion euros. This, even though the department will participate in the overall effort by saving on its budget with the economy you mentioned by 0.89%, which actually amounts to about 22 million. The government agreement also provides for defence spending to be aligned with the 2030 average of non-nuclear European allies. This will enable us to achieve a defence effort of 1.24% of gross domestic product in 2024. In spite of a crisis that energizes budgets and imposes reductions for many, Defence will see a significant increase in its budget. It is a political choice and an important message. The Defence budget is close to €3.7 billion in liquidation appropriations. Around 40% goes to staff expenditure of EUR 1.5 billion, 30% to investment expenditure in equipment of EUR 1.1 billion, 28% to operating expenditure of EUR 1 billion and the balance to infrastructure investments of EUR 89 million. The means of payment that will go to infrastructure will increase significantly in the coming years, not only as a result of the contracts for capacity building, but also for the infrastructure that the staff are interested in. At the level of personnel policy, as I said, it is 1.5 billion euros, I am aware that recruiting more than 10,000 women and men is a challenge for Defence. I also know that this is a sine qua non for the Defence to operate under the conditions it deserves. It is an imperative for it to fulfil the tasks entrusted to it by the State. It is also a matter of respect for the current collaborators in terms of their commitment to our army and the workload they have to take on and absorb as a result of many departures. That is why we will develop an ambitious strategy to attract and retain staff. In fact, I have already outlined the outline before you in the presentation of my policy note. It is a comprehensive human resources policy with attention for every stage of the career, the awakening of vocations to retirement with an improvement in the status of veteran in particular. Increased collaboration with VDAB, Actiris and Forem will be sought. Jobs will be offered to both young and old people in the three regions of the country, with a priority on quality. Real trajectories of personal development and career support will be developed and strengthened. Entering and leaving Defence will remain possible but will return to it also and even encouraged, especially when the skills will bring added value to the organization through the experience gained and accumulated both within the army and in other public or private bodies. Of course, offering a competitive wage compared to what is practised by other public safety employers is essential and is an essential basic element complementary to all this. As such, a joint Defence Staff/Union Working Group with an external partner is under way, in accordance with the resolution adopted here. The full results of this comparative study with the police will be provided no later than the end of the first quarter of 2021. Based on these results and my ongoing consultations with trade union organizations, I will instruct the Defence Staff to make the salary enhancement proposals as soon as possible. In addition, the recruitment of civilians will allow, on the one hand, to respond more quickly to the needs of Defence and, on the other hand, to provide civilian personnel with wider career opportunities and opportunities. Many functions within Defence are currently occupied by military personnel, trained in military tasks, while these functions do not require such skills. That is what I want to avoid with the announced goal of increasing the number of civilians from 5 to 15 per cent by 2024. On the other hand, I am pleased that I have finally reached an agreement with the insurance companies. It is a convention that marks a great step forward for all staff and their families who did not have to suffer such disadvantages while these men and women serve Belgium. With regard to operations abroad, I have never mentioned a unilateral deployment in the Sahel. I have always said that I want a concentration of our operations that takes into account both the geopolitical context, the priorities as defined in our strategic vision and the expectations of our allies or our international commitments. As I have said on many occasions, my approach will be comprehensive in relation to our foreign policy and that of our development cooperation. In this area too, the role of our army will be even more proactive in defining our strategy, our interests and our commitments. Today, Defence is forced to operate in many theatres from Central Asia to the Middle East where we are contributing to the fight against terrorism, and to the Sahel where we are supporting the stabilization of fragile, unstable states (Mali and Niger). We are also active at sea, to ensure freedom of navigation or for demining missions, as well as in the air, to protect the territory of our allies. These are commitments that respond to challenges of various forms that require a new consideration of the geostrategic context. Strangely enough, it has been several times that you have raised the issue, but there has never been any question of reducing cooperation with the Netherlands. You've never heard me say anything like that. Last week, I had the opportunity to meet again with the Dutch Ambassador, with whom I have excellent contacts. We were able to talk and appreciate our cooperation in the navy as well as in our MRTT aircraft, to name but a few. The idea is certainly not to reduce but to continue our collaboration. You suggest that we cling to France. Again, I do not quite understand, especially since the CaMo project, it seems to me, was initiated at the time of Minister Vandeput. Obviously, at that time, France was not disturbing. There is therefore no question of clinging to France and of saying that the others do not exist, there are realities and demands, which we will analyse with the interest they deserve and, above all, on the basis of a complementary military analysis. With regard to cyber-threat, this is indeed the major challenge in the coming years. This threat has been identified in many countries as a major challenge in terms of crime and destabilization of our democracy. We will therefore invest in this area. As a matter of fact, this afternoon I met with the General Intelligence and Security Service (GSIS) staff, who we intend to strengthen by both human and material means. I met with motivated young people who had been involved in this service for a few years and who certainly did not want to get out of it, because they found a continuous training, equipment and approach that they could not find in the private sector. I am therefore confident that this service will be strengthened and that it will offer these young people good prospects for the future in this area. I will end with a little nuance, but I do not want to go into this debate, Mrs Ponthier. There was never a question of cancelling physical tests over the year. It's really limited to the covid period. They are suspended as long as health measures do not permit. As soon as possible, the aim will be to take them back. In fact, I told you yesterday that an evaluation was scheduled for January. As regards the long-standing NATO and Europe debate, Mr Franken, I think it is a habit of opposing each other, and I have already spoken many times about this. Of course, there is no opposition between strengthening the European pillar and NATO. Indeed, while we are paying attention to the current debate, the strengthening of Europe's security in Europe and the gradual establishment of operational autonomy are certainly also of interest to the United States in view of the Asian pivot under way. That's it, Madam President, I think I've been around.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u120	Thank you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u121	I would like to make a few point-by-point comments. You say that it is certainly not a conscious strategy to focus everything on the Sahel. But we don't see an immediate increase in budgets for our operations. If it becomes apparent that additional investments are being made in the operation in the Sahel, consideration is being given to continuing to participate in the Barkhane operation - this may sooner or later be at the expense of other operations. Hence our plea to focus on the various yards given the international security threats worldwide. Thank you for your answer on the relationship with France and the Netherlands. You referred to your conversation with the ambassador of the Netherlands, we could also read that on your Twitter account and underlined that you will not phase out the cooperation. At the same time, we can see that a number of new yards are being opened with France. We are in favour, indeed, Madam Minister, of you strengthening relations with the Netherlands, and not just keeping the status quo. Work on that, put your ear to the admiral of the Navy. I'm sure you already have. There are very strong partnerships that are ready to be further developed. Take those yards under your arm. Bring initiatives to Parliament. Convince us that you want to make sure that the ties with the Netherlands are strengthened. Finally, you also replied to comments on cybersecurity. Again, our plea is not to install an additional component, but to invest in cybersecurity capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u122	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The discussion on National Defence is closed. The discussion on Defense is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u123	I welcome Mrs Khattabi, Minister of Climate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u124	Madam President, my speech concerns the Energy document, for which Mrs Van der Straeten is responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u125	She doesn't seem to be here yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u126	Madam President, it has been agreed that we will begin with the Climate-Environment debate. This has been confirmed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u127	Madam President, I have prepared a speech for Minister Khattabi on climate change and for Minister Van Quickenborne on the North Sea. Madam Secretary, on Saturday, day after day five years after the signing of the Paris climate agreement, the UN, the United Kingdom and France organised a virtual Climate Ambition Summit. Among other heads of government, but also companies and citizens' movements have presented their climate plans at this time of show. It had to be a bit foreplay or a run-up to the Corona delayed climate conference COP26 in Glasgow, which will take place in November next year. However, the prerequisite for presenting was the reality of new commitments, which should lead to new national targets or NDCs, with a long-term strategy that should lead to net zero greenhouse gas emissions. Belgium's neighbours also presented financial commitments to support the most vulnerable, as well as reform policy plans in the light of a green and sustainable recovery from the covid crisis. Of course, the EU, as a superstate, was also present. Since last Friday, the climate agreement of the European Council, the EU has now become a prime leader in the fight against global warming. For this reason alone, an agreement had to be reached on Friday: to make the leadership of the United States of Europe, the superstate, more credible. Madam Minister, Belgium was expressly unable to speak on Saturday. After the current and very difficult Belgian National Energy and Climate Plan, which the European Commission has criticized, Belgium has not been able to report so much to new, hard commitments. There are, above all, the very ambitious passages in the apple-blue green chapters of the federal government agreement, but for real concrete commitments, the regions must be taken into account in particular. However, last Friday 11 December 2020, you immediately issued a press release in the early hours, in which you stated and I quote: "I could not have imagined a better start as a climate minister." Let me quote you again: 'We have shown that by working together as a small country we have nevertheless weighed the European negotiations'. Despite Mrs Khattabi, the superpostiva of the "Tous ensemble," there was again that lid Limburg miners' daughter, Flemish minister of Environment and Energy Zuhal Demir. After all, Mrs Demir said through the social media, and I quote: 'The demand for a fair distribution of efforts was not followed up by the European Summit. Flanders remains behind without any clear guarantees as to how European ambition will be further developed. Not a good thing." Prime Minister De Croo, who was delighted about the climate agreement, stated that there is now a need for an offensive response. According to the Prime Minister, there can be no doubt as to whether or not the Flemish aspirations were taken into account in the texts of the agreement. According to the Prime Minister, Europe has taken sufficient account of the efforts of our industry in recent years and of the principles of cost-efficiency, as well as the opportunities for international flexibility. Those things would be embedded in the lyrics. Mrs Khattabi, it is of course a matter of exegesis. I used to study theology. Exegese was a very important subject. I don't know if you're good at it, but I was pretty good at it. How to read a text? After the recess in the Committee on the Environment, Climate and Energy, I will have a moment to talk about this discussion. Madam Minister, what I do know is that Minister Demir's response continues to show that you are facing a very difficult task in the coming months and years. Now that this 55% reduction, although collectively for the whole of Europe, you wanted or could not answer that question in committee, when I and Mr Wollants asked you ten times, is politically anchored, an adaptation of national energy and climate plans and new reduction targets for Belgium. We then talk about the distribution of climate effort, because that 55% must apparently be achieved collectively, according to conclusion 14 of the Summit. The impact on national states and their sectors will now need to be scrupulously defined. In May, the European Commission's spreadsheets and analyses would be passed on to the Member States. Then, of course, the intra-Belgian discussion must also take place. Of course, the forthcoming reform of the ETS will also play a role in this, possibly including some sectors from the current non-ETS. This will certainly also have an impact on the ultimate objective for Belgium. In any case, one of the red threads in your policy paper is the intra-Belgian consultation on all possible aspects of your powers. It will indeed be very useful and necessary to revitalise the national climate committee. Our Flemish Interest Group is extremely curious about how this intra-Belgian cooperation will crystallise over the next few months and years. Now that the Antwerp bourgeois father seems to definitively dismiss us as a possible partner, we can further deepen our role as a driver from a comfortable, covered gallery. In any case, we will be able to present the Flemings in a few years, or perhaps even earlier, to what extent the difficult nature of Flemish minister Demir is real, or rather fake news and a kind of structural political-strategic charade turns out to be. I already have a small hunch about the truth. Colleagues, I would also like to return to the carbon tax, which should reduce the use of fossil fuels. The economic journal of the National Bank of Belgium now stresses that the effects of such a tax on the purchasing power of families and the competitiveness of our companies can only be countered if this tax is redistributed wisely to families and businesses. Only then can an energy price increase be absorbed by the economy. Without a serious tax shift, therefore, greening taxation will find absolutely no support. The full picture will also have to be taken into account when applying the 'polluter pays' principle. I hope that your coalition partners will manage every wild idea of you and your party in this matter. I'm afraid so. We will observe very critically and fight against any new social injustice and illegal tax increase in this respect. Madam Minister, the global framework for biodiversity beyond 2020 will also be established during this period of government. The Minister will defend the conservation and protection of biodiversity with fire within Belgium and at the international level. This is in Belgium's commitment to The Leaders' Pledge for Nature. For us, this includes a firm approach to illegal trade in plants and animals. During the discussions of your policy paper, it has been shown that French-speaking parties who have strong support in Brussels, such as Ecolo, but also PS, consider the issue of illegal trafficking to be very important. The Minister indicated that she would pay attention to the work of the new Task Force on Sustainable Trade in Exotic Species. With regard to the CITES Convention, the government will provide more resources to detect and combat illegal trade in these species. Well, Madam Secretary, you're from Brussels. So you will no doubt know that this is not the highest priority in the Brussels-Capital region at the moment. The illegal trade in plant and animal species and the trade in bushmeat are flourishing in the Brussels-Capital Region. My colleague, Chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, has been able to observe in recent days that the Public Health Office last year dealt with 304 files on illegal trade in plants and animals, but that only 115 minutes were produced. In the Brussels-Capital Region, the barely 9 minutes for barely 24 files started in Brussels. However, Belgium is a turntable for trade in endangered CITES species. This was more apparent from a study by Traffic, an independent NGO that charts the trade in endangered animals and plants. Brussels excels in that. We are in favour of animal welfare. We pay a great deal of attention to this. We want the fight against trafficking in illegal animal species to be given a higher priority because of the great impact on biodiversity and the link with international crime. Both police, Justice, Customs, Environment and tax services as well as the BFSA need to step up their efforts in this fight. We shall see, Madam Minister, whether you will succeed in intensifying this struggle.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u128	Mr Warmoes, on which subject do you also wish to speak? The climate?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u129	I had signed up to speak on both Mrs Van der Straeten's and Mrs Khattabi's subjects, since it is a bit difficult to separate energy and climate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u130	You can ask Mrs. Khattabi about the climate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u131	All right. I'm going to intervene in Dutch. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, to begin with, let us be clear, the PVDA Vivaldi supports its climate objectives, unlike others in this Chamber. We can only welcome Belgium joining the European platoon and agreeing to raise climate targets. We are now here to look at the budget and a budget is the moment of truth, in which a government's intentions are converted into concrete budgets. What we see then, Madam Secretary, is not much. The ambitions are gone, we can't find them in the budget. Moreover, the government goes back to recipes that we've known for decades that they don't work. Everything is left to the market. What we need for the climate and for the energy transition, Madam Secretary, are public investments, in which the government itself takes the lead. Colleagues, the climate crisis is not waiting. Action is now needed and we expect massive public investment for the energy transition, for renewable energy, for energy storage, for insulation, for a climate-neutral industry, for public transport, so that ultimately an ecological lifestyle is possible and affordable for all. That is not what we find in this budget. What I want to pay the government for is, of course, her own contribution. How much federal money goes to energy and climate? Then the conclusion is that this is very poor for 2021, very thin. Public climate investment is barely provided for and, despite all the fine words we have heard, there is no trend break in that policy. That is not surprising either, because this government, just as it did the previous one, has a liberal vision. It is therefore a bit ironic that our new Energy Minister, Mrs van der Straeten, has the motto: energy in his own hands. What you do is just the opposite, you just leave it all to the market, despite the beautiful rhetoric. There will be massive subsidies for the private sector, so that they can build new gas plants. However, for the time being there is no massive public climate investment, which is just what we need. We see the same thing with the Minister of Climate, Mrs Khattabi. You repeat the mantra of social justice over and over again, and that is what we are in favour of, of course, and that is what we are in agreement with. However, you are never talking about the major polluters, which are the main cause of climate change. In Belgium, 5 companies account for 20% of our country's greenhouse gas emissions, which is more than all families put together. When we talk about these major polluters, we must also talk about clean air trade, the European emissions trading system or ETS. Simply put, this is actually the European carbon market. However, in your notes, we find nothing on this ETS, a perfect illustration of your desire to leave climate policy to the market. The problem is that the purpose of a company is to make profits, we cannot blame them. A company doesn't want to save the climate and if it's cheaper, they just buy fried air instead of investing in technology to reduce emissions. So companies can easily decide not to invest in less polluting production but simply to go shopping on the market and buy clean air. That's capitalism at the top, everything becomes merchandise. They can't just buy clean air, worse is that they can even make a lot of money from it. Last week there was another article in Knack entitled 'The polluter does not pay, the polluter gets paid'. Belgian companies earned €2.1 billion from the ETS, the European carbon market, by reselling emission allowances obtained free of charge. We have long been complaining that the ETS system is not working. However, it can be much simpler. Just lay down binding standards. Force those big polluters to reduce their emissions with the best technology available. That's social justice. You're not doing anything to tackle these big polluters, but you'd like to introduce a CO2 tax. Big companies get suits subsidies, but people have to pay. That is a major contradiction, ladies and gentlemen. If you really want to pursue a social and just climate policy, please tackle those major polluters. Back to the budget after this little excavation. With the greenest coalition agreement ever, of course, my expectations were high and we expected massive public investment in climate and energy. That is not what we saw in the 2021 budget. In fact, this is largely a continuation of the 2020 budgets with a number of new aspects. Yes, some aspects are positive. If it's okay, so do we. For example, we are satisfied with the extension of the social tariff. It is indeed a disgrace that one in five people live in energy poverty. Those were the numbers before the corona crisis. We have been asking for more than a year for funds to be made available to combat poverty. We therefore welcome these much-needed resources to support people in energy poverty. Further measures are needed. Unfortunately, yesterday we were told that the social rates will rise by 10 to 15% next year, which is of course a very unfortunate thing. In addition to these resources, the search for climate investment is. The social tariff is a very positive measure, but it is not in itself a measure that benefits the climate. There is an additional €12 million for international climate finance, but if the commitment of this government to provide for rising and additional international climate finance is limited to this, it is sad. The Koepel of the Flemish North-South Movement 11.11.11 also reacted disappointed and says that this is not even close to a fair contribution from Belgium to the developing countries. Will the government keep its promises and ensure an increasing and additional contribution? It is poignant but also significant that Belgium has not been allowed to speak at the Climate Ambition Summit in the past week, due to a lack of new engagements. Only countries that showed sufficient ambition were allowed to take the floor. That our country wasn't allowed to do that is a sign on the wall. This Vivaldi government has not changed that, despite all the fine words. Another new element concerns the funds for the transformation fund of the Federal Participation and Investment Company. These are used to participate in private companies. The general statement of the budget states: "This fund will aim to support key companies, strengthen their solvency and help them reorient in the light of the above-mentioned long-term challenges, such as the fight against climate change." However, it is completely unclear, despite the fact that I have already asked several times about which companies are involved here or what is meant by strengthening their solvency and reorienting themselves. I'll ask the question again. How will these resources be deployed? I have asked both ministers Van der Straeten and Khattabi about this, but so far I have not received an answer. So we're still guessing about it. Madam Minister Khattabi, you are talking in the policy paper about drawing up a green funding strategy. In committee, I asked you whether this means that the government intends to stop all investments and investments of the Federal Participation and Investment Society in fossil fuels immediately and not, as stated in the government agreement, until 2030. I did not get an answer and so ask the question again. It is crazy that this government, with its greenest ambitions, the greenest government ever, was said to retain this legislature for all its own investments and investments in the fossil fuel sector. Can you confirm today whether or not you intend to do something about this? So far, the resources that the federal government itself puts at the forefront. Then, of course, there is the climate, transition and relay fund. That fund will finance climate investments for the recovery and investment plan, but we see in the 2021 budget that no federal funding is earmarked for this. You are counting entirely on European money, while we want to pay the government for its own efforts, because that European money is going to come anyway. After all, Europe requires that 37% of the money for the relay goes to climate investment, and even with the N-VA in the federal government, these European climate investments would be made. I expect more from a federal government with a green climate minister and a green energy minister. It is easy to make announcement policy without having to make any efforts of your own. It is easy to say that this is the greenest government agreement ever, if the European money crane is open anyway and billions of euros are coming our way from the Corona Restoration Fund and the Green Deal anyway. We can therefore only conclude that there is not enough budget for the necessary turnaround that you are both striving for. Based on the current budgetary tables, the only resources the federal government itself allocates to climate investment from the transformation fund. That is EUR 750 million for four years, so an average of EUR 187.5 million per year. That is, of course, far too little. We can add EUR 300 million for SNCB, but that too is totally insufficient to make our public transport truly a leader in our country. That is no more or no less than the reversal of previous savings. Many progressive citizens may be disappointed now, but somewhere it is not entirely surprising, because you are coloring neatly within the liberal lines of the government. Minister Khattabi, you write ambitiously that our model is urgently in need of revision. I had a lot of fun reading your policy statement, but I do not want to break with the logic of our economic system, while you, Minister Van der Straeten, do not bother to hide it: you defend openly and openly and persistently liberalising the energy market and limit the role of the government to creating a favourable framework for the profit appetite of the market. We saw a good example of this yesterday. Research by the CREG shows that more than 1 million Belgians pay more than 500 euros a year for their energy through these so-called dormant contracts, which we have already discussed extensively in the Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate Policy. Instead of intervening, you invite the CEOs of the main energy multinationals to a non-binding conversation. You kindly ask them to stop doing so. You thought it was a wake-up call for the sleeping contracts. That's Vivaldi's no-binding approach. Instead of being coercive and tackling the problem of dormant contracts and curbing the profit appetite of large energy companies, the Minister confines himself to talking to the CEOs. A better example of the liberal logic of this government I could not have wished for the day before this intervention. Other parts of this budget are flagrantly contrary to the ambitions of this government. In her policy paper, Mrs Khattabi writes literally, and I quote: "An ambitious climate policy starts with an effective government that must be able to rely on sufficient staff and resources to do so." I fully agree with that. However, this budget makes a blind, linear saving on staff and operating resources. For the energy administration alone, it is about 2.7 million euros. For the Climate Change Service, this is about saving 8%. Ministers agreed on the importance of sustainable development objectives, but a total of EUR 16 million was saved on staff and operating resources at the Federal Institute for Sustainable Development. Understand who can understand. There are still more blind spots in the policy papers of both ministers, such as agricultural biofuels, the so-called first generation biofuel. There is an overwhelming scientific and societal consensus that first generation biofuels threaten global food security and human rights, and are bad for climate and biodiversity. As green parties, you know that all too well. Almost all of the federal government's advisory councils have already asked to stop using first generation biofuels. The previous federal government was more committed to these harmful biofuels. Mrs Khattabi, in committee you are silent on this dossier in all languages. Mrs van der Straeten, I also questioned you about this and you hid behind a study to be carried out. That's a classic trick. There are already enough studies, but you will have another study carried out. However, the question is simple. Will the government, in line with what almost all experts say and with what you ask for your own advice, stop and phase out food-based biofuels, yes or no? Colleagues, the bill of this budget is, in a few words, a saving on staff and operating resources, barely providing for own resources and counting on European money. So much for the greenest coalition agreement ever.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u132	Mrs Khattabi, would you like to answer now?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u133	Madam President, that was what had been agreed. Mr Ravyts, I have nothing to add to your statements. Perhaps I should like to say a word about the tone of your speech and the projections you make about the future. I probably have more respect for Mrs. Demir than you do. I will not anticipate her future attitude here. It's obvious it won't be easy. You have mentioned a number of elements that are real. Nevertheless, we have seen in a number of dossiers that we can work together. I will give the chance in the future, so that everyone takes the most interesting position for the Region or for the government it represents. Mr Warmoes, some seem to be more experts in pseudofigures than in climate policy. I can follow you in the remarks you made about the staff. I take this opportunity to thank my administration for the quality of their expertise. Their expertise is known and recognized, both nationally and internationally. The comments you make allow me to pay tribute here to the quality of the work that has been done. It is true that we inherit a financial situation that is not the simplest, and I regret that. What is climate policy? You say that there is no investment commensurate with our ambition. In doing so, this comment says more about your lack of awareness of climate policy than about the government's lack of ambition. An ambitious climate policy consists first of a reorientation of the strategic choice: circular economy, investments in SNCB, une transition de la fiscalité, investments in a sustainable modal shift, the plan de reliance et de résilience. And when you add up, I'm probably getting the biggest budget in this government. The world is not as binary as you want to let it believe and I would like you not to insult or insult your constituents or mine because it is not by repeating ten or twenty times a lie that it becomes a truth. Climate commitments are commensurate with the ambitions announced. I admit, however, that in two and a half months I have not achieved the goals that the government has set for me in terms of climate ambition. I can recognize him. I can follow you. You both raised the issue of the carbon tax and I would like to go back to this incident. As I said, you can repeat the same lie ten or twenty times, it will not become a reality. You read something about that tax, but where? If you give me the page, the passage where I mention the carbon tax, I can answer you. Your colleagues – who were in committee when you were not there when we addressed the issue – played the game and admitted that the project did not appear anywhere in my statements or in my note. On the other hand, I will take a moment to talk about environmental taxation. Indeed, in the public debate, it seemed to me that this debate was less about the government's intentions than about the lack of awareness of some about the issue of environmental taxation. It is part of all the financial mechanisms that encourage change in the behaviour of actors. The tools of this tax system consist of both positive incentives (exemptions, deductions and tax reductions) to encourage economic actors to engage in a virtuous approach and, alongside them, mechanisms to internalise negative externalities by putting the right people responsible for the costs that are currently being borne by the community as a whole. I am thinking of social security, environmental diseases, soil, water, etc. It is therefore a tool to compensate for environmental and social costs, which must be able to respond to the challenges of both resource scarcity, climate change and pollution of various kinds. From the point of view of transition, this tool appears to be less coercive than the standard, but it is nevertheless effective when it allows for the economic advantage of sustainable behaviour in relation to behaviour harmful to the environment. I said it in committee and I repeat it here: the shift, the evolution of our taxation towards greener taxation, will be part of an approach, in a comprehensive reform led by my colleague Van Peteghem, to ensure precisely the overall balance and the just transition. It is because it is part of the overall reform that we will achieve this balance. The ETS mechanism has been in existence since 2005. It is a key element in the Union's climate change policy. Although one can think of this politically or philosophically – I will not say anything about it, even if I have my opinion – one can only see today that emissions from the sectors covered by this system are at least 21% below the 2005 level. By 2030, in accordance with the revised system, they are expected to have decreased by 43%. It's a fact, no matter what you think of the system. You cannot make me responsible for this system that has existed since 2005. And you can't accuse me of not wanting to change this system. As you know, this is European legislation. This is still where my action is taking place. If I ever have the opportunity to be a Commissioner, we will talk about it again, but so far, this is where my work is going. On the issue of fossil fuels and investments, the majority agreement is clear. The will is that one. It is a necessary passage to disinvest in carbon energies. Again, I recognize that after two and a half months, nothing has been done. Investments are still the ones we know. I invite you to continue to be critical but above all to show intellectual honesty. You mentioned a mantra earlier when you said that I often talk about just transition. I would like to refer you back to yours by inviting you precisely to accompany us and to remain critical but by being intellectually honest in the arguments that you make, even out of respect for your constituents, Mr Warmoes. I remain available in committee to answer all your questions, but I will not anticipate the discussions that are still going to take place, whether on tax reform or investment. I confirm, however, that the government's will is to reduce and then eliminate our investments in fossil fuels. With that element, I think I've gone around.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u134	Madam President, I assume that I am now asking the questions or giving my reflections on North Sea policy to Minister Van Quickenborne. Minister, I am sorry that I am obviously the only one here tonight to bother you about your North Sea competence. I'll start with the Flemish government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u135	You'll have to wait, Mr. Ravyts. Mr Warmoes has a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u136	Madam President, of course. First of all, Mrs. Khattabi, I'm still quite surprised. There's nothing to upset about, calling me a liar and accusing me of intellectual dishonesty. I didn't call you that. I recognize your ideals. I'm just saying you're not going to make it the way you do it. But you call me a liar several times. You make me... Yes, you said I was spreading lies. You said it twice. You said there was no intellectual honesty. Sorry, I don't think that's very courteous - I'm going to use those words. I don't call you a liar. I said that we support the objectives that you have set yourself, but that we do not believe that you will succeed. Of course, I didn't say either that you had to be there already. I mentioned, for example, agrofuels, a subject that you haven't mentioned. Of course we will make the accounts and we will see where you will be at the end of the legislature, in 2024, since your term of office runs so far. You still have a little time to do it. But for the rest, you talked about circular economy, SNCB, taxation, modal shift, figures. You confirm what I said. You haven't mentioned the big companies again. You're talking about the issue of environmental taxation – I've noticed some snippets – "to encourage actors to behave virtuously." But that's what we've been doing for decades! We have to take stock at some point. We are not there, at the climate level. If there is a fall in carbon emissions this year, it is because of the economic crisis, and nothing else. On the other hand, green taxation is not new. Fuel taxes, for example, have been motivated from an environmental point of view. Today, are there fewer cars? Do people drive less by car? Of course they don't, because they have to. There is no worthy public transport in Belgium; in any case, many company zonings are not reachable by public transport, let alone by 06:00 in the morning. There, people have to use their cars. The only result of these taxes is, of course, the impoverishment of people. Compared to the ETS (the ETS in French), the European carbon market, "we're going to change it". It has already been modified once. So we know the flaw of this system. As far as I know, your party has always been in favour of changing it, but at the same time has never challenged the system itself. I think that at some point we must also take stock of this system which does not work despite the various reforms. You say we'll be at 43% reductions in 2030 and that's a fact. No, that's not a fact since we're not in 2030. That's the ambition we want. These were some reactions. I'm a little surprised at what you said. I think what you said confirms our analysis. Indeed, as a left-wing opposition party we will continue to repeat these truths and we will see each other again for four years and we will see each other again in 2024 to take stock.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u137	When I mentioned the idea of repeating ten times, twenty times a lie, and it was not a truth, it was about the fact that the carbon tax was in my statement and that it was the subject of an article, discussions, etc. Yeah, that's a lie. I'm taking a long distance from the fact that you thought I was calling you a liar. That was not my intention, but continuing to say that this carbon tax is on the table is not the truth. I can't say otherwise.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u138	No, you asked for the page. That's page 11. I have it here in Dutch. I read it in Dutch. "During the previous legislature, important preparatory steps were already taken towards the introduction of a carbon price. On my initiative, concrete proposals will be made within the government to immediately introduce such pricing in the non-ETS sectors and link it to the necessary measures to ensure that pricing is socially equitable." I read the whole paragraph, including social rechtvaardigheid. And so, that's good. You're talking about the price of carbon. We can say that the price of carbon is not the carbon tax, we must not exaggerate either! This is on page 11 of your note. So it's not a lie! (...) in relation to this, simply less popular.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u139	Minister, the Flemish Government approved an updated wind plan last Friday. Mrs Demir wants to increase the installed capacity of onshore wind energy and boost the investment rate. But this is important for your range of activities in the North Sea.It looks mainly at the port areas and at the -Economic Network Albertkanaal. Why? That is because windmills are increasingly sensitive in residential areas, she says herself. I would add as a reason that windmills in the few open spaces in Flanders are an increasingly sensitive subject. For the first time, Mr Van Quickenborne, the political world in Flanders recognises that geography and population density in Flanders are a serious brake on onshore investment. You, as the title mayor, like the other mayors in our assembly, will understand perfectly what I want to go to. Yes, I want to go to the North Sea, to drop right into the house, to enough miles in the sea. I read with some satisfaction that you understand the concerns of the West Coast regarding the construction plans for a new wind farm off the Dunkirk coast, and that I read in the press - together with the mayors of the West Coast, you have proposed a full alternative. The public consultation, for which you have indeed made efforts on the involvement of Belgium, is still running until Sunday and there would be a coordinated approach from the federal and regional administrations that is also politically covered by you. You seem to be proposing a different location, in an area that is further off the coast, thus minimising the impact on shipping routes and on the sea view. You also propose possibilities for cooperation with the planned Belgian projects in the Princess Elisabeth zone. That, I believe, is the right approach. The synthesis exercise you seek in your policy paper and declaration on the North Sea has been supported by a very large majority in the committee, over opposition and majority. The coat rack is of course the Marine Spatial Plan 2020-2026, which was prepared by your predecessor. We believe that the government is in our view that the independent Flemish state must, of course, exploit the ecological, economic, energy and recreational and tourist potential of the North Sea. For the Flemish interest, creating a basis for this is important for the coastal communities and the users of the sea, for example the fishermen. I refer to the implantation of a sea farm off the coast of Nieuwpoort. That project of multiple use of space around nearshore aquaculture is really not obvious. The project holders now also have the environmental permit after their use permit. Last Friday there was consultation with Nieuwpoort, but the city remains at its intention to go to the Council of State. There too, it is a question of the place; it is not against the project as such. Even within the framework of the Marine Spatial Plan with different zonings, the impact of such projects on, among other things, fisheries, marinas and water sports remains open to dispute. For us, Minister, the North Sea is a place for both nature conservation and innovation. We support the objective of offshore wind energy capacity amounting to 4.4 gigawatt, provided that the completion of the lots in the Princess Elisabeth zone without the massive, albeit slightly reduced subsidies over the past 15 years. In that context, we are very curious about the tender. Of course, the implementation must also be carried out in the most natural way possible, dixit colleague De Vriendt.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u140	I would like to thank Mr Ravyts for his speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u141	That was short.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u142	(...) I will go into it at another time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u143	Thank you for your cooperation. Mr Wollants has the floor on Energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u144	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, the budget before us is the first fully-fledged budget, which has been its title for a long time. However, I wonder what the government wants to change the budget. After all, we know that there has been a proper debate in committee. A lot of questions have been asked and even a lot of questions have been asked. I have to say, however, that not many answers have been followed in committee. We have tried to have you explain why you are making certain choices and what direction you are going. I have to admit that it quickly became a story in which very few concrete answers were followed and in which you yourself indicated that we should only put oral questions in order to get an answer to our specific questions. In this way one buys some time and in a later stage one may have an answer to a number of questions or at least a beginning of an answer. This also means that policy papers and a budget have been made here without a very clear vision of which way to go. 2021 is used to figure out what is meant in concrete terms at the time when the coalition agreement was written. That makes me fear the worst. This usually means that there is not really a very clear view of the points on which an agreement has actually been reached. We've seen it for a while. It's been going on for a while. It was about the carbon tax. There was a party that suggested that I shouldn't use that word. After all, people could actually dislike the concept and understand what it was really about, namely pay. There were other parties from the majority who simply very clearly repeated and referred to that word as it was about, but also indicated that they did not want it. At the end of the journey it was a story that was moved to the end of the legislature in the context of a major fiscal reform and perhaps even pushed beyond the legislature. I have the impression that this is also happening in the field of energy with a lot of things. After all, I have to say that there are a lot of things that are being put forward that cannot be said today what they really mean and where they want to go. I'm gonna walk them through with you and see where we land. Firstly, everything to do with the core exit and the CRM mechanism. You say quite clearly that there will be a nuclear trip, that there will be no doubt about it. At the same time, we see a lot of parties here that do refer to the safety net mechanism. As you know, it is foreseen that a mechanism could be put into effect in November next year, which would allow some nuclear power stations to remain open for longer. I heard it here earlier. A number of majority parties have made it very clear that this must be there, that this must be there, that this monitoring must be there, so that one can intervene when there is still a problem. I have to say that there are two problems. We have already had this discussion and we know that timing is a problem, that this is simply not right. If we then decide, there are several reasons why we already know why it will not be possible to do so by 2025. Then one would end up somewhere in 2026 for those two plants to reopen. What happens in the meantime? In the meantime, these plants are naturally closed. I know your answer for a piece. You will tell me that this is pure theory, because this safety net is not necessary at all. You don't want that safety net, just to be clear, either. When you wrote this in the coalition agreement, it was, of course, intended to appease a number of people. Because even if it turns out in November that no one is participating in that capacity auction, I am sure you still do not want that safety net. That is, of course, why it has been formulated in this way. In fact, I think you are already writing to the report that you are to deliver in November and that you are already demonstrating that this safety net will not be necessary. The fact that you are responsible for a substantial increase in CO2 emissions is not such a big deal to you. The fact that this causes problems with nitrogen emissions is not really your problem. That this will also give rise to a lot of extra costs seems even less your concern. The goal is clear. Whatever happens, the answer to every possible question that can be asked is: we must continue with the core exit. In the election campaign we have heard a number of people, including the chairman of your party, who have tried to find solutions to the problems posed. At that time it sounded like it was absolutely no problem to reduce CO2 emissions from the gas plants, because they were quite ready for carbon capture. We now know that this was pure election talk. In fact, I have the impression, after our last discussion in the committee on this subject, that you are really concerned that some regions would impose carbon capture in the permits. After all, that would make your job a lot harder. You said that yourself a while ago. It would make things a lot more expensive, even more expensive than it already is today. Then the question is, if these costs increase so much, whether your colleagues in the government are still prepared to continue to follow those key steps. I do know that it is your piste that it will not necessarily be gas plants that will emerge in that CRM mechanism. Theoretically, that's true, but the question is how many of the files you already know today are not about gas plants. How many megawatts of alternative production, storage or demand management do you know today that are not gas plants? In a recent article, you said how many files you know today about gas plants. I think that's three to four times the amount that even Elijah thinks might be needed. I did not hear you mention files in the same article about storage, demand management and so on. A second problem with the nuclear aid line is that you have looked at all these matters in advance. You went to see what happened with that. Therefore, you know that it is probably impossible to demonstrate by November 2021 that security of supply will be guaranteed. You may as well argue that it is impossible to argue that this will not be the case. Let us be honest, a large part of the capacity will not be auctioned until 2024. It is only in 2025 that you will actually know if that capacity is there. I suspect this has always been the intention. You put a helpline in the coalition agreement, which you knew in advance that you could ensure that it could never be used. In the meantime, of course, we do not know how this replacement capacity will be paid. We have worked together on a very interesting resolution in this area in a not so far past. The question is whether you are still holding on to that. You know that one of the objectives of that resolution was to ensure that that invoice did not end up on the electricity bill, that it would not be passed on in that way. We have put a lot of deadlines into that to ensure that the next Energy Minister would stay on track and I think this was necessary, but there is a problem now. You are now the minister who has to abide by all the rules we have drawn up together. The question is whether you will do so, or whether you will succeed in keeping to it. Because if I'm right, you have at least three things to deliver before the end of the year. Firstly, you still owe us a recalculation of the cost of CRM. Secondly, you have yet to submit a report on the possible improvements in the field of competitive electricity production and a wholesale market. Finally, and not least, you have yet to make a concrete proposal on degressivity and on how you will ensure that the federal part of that electricity costs will fall. Granted, that deadline isn't over yet. You have 14 days and a few hours left. You can undoubtedly do a lot in 14 days and a few hours. I can only assume that you have made a great deal of progress today and that we can expect them to be on our desk one of the following days, perhaps even hours. The question is how far you stand today. In committee it sounded like we had to give you a little time to get all that done, but what's the time? How much time do you think you'll need to deliver those items in that added time? What can we really expect from you? Or isn't it your intention to stick to those deadlines, even almost? These cases were approved by a fairly large majority. All the parties in your government were for those deadlines. My party was in favour, too. Although some saw it differently, I think that few cases with such a high degree of support were approved. So I can only assume that you, as a minister, will keep to the floor of Parliament. A second aspect concerns your ambitions in the field of renewable energy. We have heard from you a number of times that nuclear power plants are making themselves redundant, as we will be using massively renewable energy. What exactly does that mean in your story? With regard to the windmills at sea, you have, quite frankly, about the same ambitions as your predecessor, because there were 4 gigawatts at the time and now as well. The question is whether it is also in your ambition to see something moving there before the end of this legislature. Do you see one mill more appearing in that second zone before the end of this legislature on top of the number already present today? If you want to make progress, I expect concrete things too, not merely an extension of your predecessor's ambitions. I think it is important that you clarify this, because that means that you must also give clarity to the market. After all, the market is ready to tackle this, to work in the North Sea. However, it is still not clear to me today which steps you want to take forward. The frame still needs to be rolled out. I think it is important that you provide an insight into that. The question also arises as to whether the federal government itself will take responsibility for renewable energy production on its own buildings and land. Many ministers and secretaries of state in this government have a link with Energy from afar or close by. Even parliamentarians from your own majority do not know who is competent for what. Some time ago, we suggested to Mr Dewael, chairman of our committee, that it might be useful to list that distribution. Mr Dewael said that none of this was necessary because it speaks for itself. At the time when an MR member asked the wrong minister a question, Mr Dewael found it useful to draw up a list of who is competent. But let me come to the essence. We've been questioning everyone we think might be responsible for renewable energy production in the federal government recently. I asked Mrs Khattabi about the possibility of putting solar panels and windmills in the federal government's premises. I've asked you about that. I had Secretary of State Michel questioned by Mr Roggeman. We have now heard three excellences, but we have not yet taken a step further. Today we still do not know what the government intends to do in this area. You always point out that you are opting for the European target of 55%. Your policy paper also starts something like this. However, it is less clear what the government itself wants to do about this. We have heard a number of things others have to do, but what will the government itself do about renewable energy? Are there any effective objectives that you will adopt in this area or do you not intend to do so at all? I'm leaning towards the second. I do not have the impression that you also intend to put numbers on that. I do not have the impression that you are looking at federal policy itself to take on its own responsibility, despite the fact that many cities and municipalities do today. In a small town like Lier there are already four or five solar projects on government buildings today. I once got a full list of federal government buildings and parts of buildings from Mr Verherstraeten. There are more than 3,000 buildings and parts of buildings under the authority of the Government of the Buildings. A few years ago, there were solar panels on 29 of those buildings. A solution for 29 roofs on 3,000 buildings is a little thin. What will you do, or does this government speak primarily of objectives? This means that the figures are constantly adjusted and that you show the outside world that you are ambitious, but when it comes to one's own policies and the things you can do yourself, that is not really great. In a third part, I want to talk about affordability. The energy standard has again reached the coalition agreement, after the previous coalition agreement also devoted a passage to it. There is a clear difference between those two passages. In fact, the previous government indicated that it would make a comparison with the neighbouring countries and that it would ensure that energy would not be more expensive for us than there. Today, the coalition agreement states that action will be taken when certain thresholds are exceeded. What thresholds are these, however? Is that 2 times 3, 30 % more or 20 % less? How do you see that right? In committee there was no clear answer to that, you could not say much about it because the file was not in your predecessor's closet. She wouldn't have done anything with that. Someone must, however, have changed that passage during the government negotiations and come up with the idea of writing something quite different about this energy standard than what was used until then. What happened to the passage on energy-intensive enterprises? You know that last time a passage was included in the energy standard, but this time it is no longer in it. I do not know at whose request that was deleted, but can you explain why that is the case? In the debate on the programme law there were also amendments on social tariffs, although in a committee other than the one that normally deals with energy dossiers. However, it was an amendment to the electricity law. I cannot get the impression that it has emerged through amendments tabled by Members of this House because the government itself has not succeeded in doing so. In the meantime, we know that your colleague from the Economics has asked for the opinion of the Council of State on this matter. However, he has badly motivated that, I cannot explain it any other way. The Council of State made it very clear that there would be no urgent opinion on this because it had been very badly motivated as to why that opinion was needed so quickly. The result is that the Council of State simply did not give any advice. The question is what the consequences are. If it turns out that this arrangement is not legally sound, then who is to blame? Those are, of course, those people who will in future receive that social rate and who, at worst, may suddenly no longer be entitled to it. What are the risks of that? How do you see that? I must also note that there is still a tension between what has been put forward and what has been approved in the amendments. Only the electricity part is mentioned in the budget. There's also an amount stuck on it. I thought 88 million euros, specifically for electricity. You yourself communicated and explained to the outside world what it was about, namely twice EUR 88 million from the budget. If I am not mistaken, you have indicated that additional 446,000 families would be eligible. Except I can't quite figure out how that matches the $88 million. You know that the current electricity story is about 450,000 households and about 270,000 families for gas in the RB, which is ratified by the programme law, amounts to approximately EUR 220 for a family that benefits from the social tariff in terms of electricity. For those who have gas, it is about 280 euros per family. How do you manage to reconcile 450,000 families that you would like to add with the amount of EUR 88 million? I understand that 88 million euros perfectly, when it comes to electricity, because that story is true. One can calculate that quite easily. One arrives at about 200 euros per family. You're adding gas to that now. How does that work? It's two years from now, while I give the amounts a year. So if you are done asking for advice from your colleague, you might be able to clear up the matter completely. I come to a fourth element, namely the path you want to take in the area of decarbonised fuels. Biofuels are still in the same boat for a long time, but I find a certain vagueness about what you are about to do, as Mr Warmoes has already referred to it. Mrs Khattabi was not so clear about that either. That is why the question remains what you want to do now. When it comes to converting electricity into that kind of fuel, for example, I see a power to x story, but for the rest very little is said about it. Can you draw a clear line on what you want to do with that? I think that is part of the Energy Climate Plan today. I imagine you, as the greenest government ever, are not going to bring down the ambitions in that area. Fifth, you made a number of statements about the nuclear sector in your policy paper, including Synatom. I don't see what you want to do with that today. Our group in the previous government has already called for an international benchmark to be used to assess how this is being addressed in other countries facing the same problems or, better, the same challenges. You were not in favour of investigating how things were handled abroad. We had made a fine recommendation in committee to improve your policy paper and your policy statement. Following a proposal from Mr Calvo, you wanted a policy paper 2.0, which you could have picked up perfectly as one of the few ministers. However, the majority has chosen to vote away all the recommendations that could possibly be made by the opposition, including this story. The question then is how you will deal with it, because I read a very vague passage about it in your policy paper, which is more like your party's proposal in 2003 to use the money mainly for something else. So be it. It is also clear that you no longer want the word nuclear to be used in relation to the Energy Transition Fund. You added that the nuclear sector may not be in the front row, but that once all the other projects have their cents, it can still get started for its projects around, among other things, decommissioning. We know what that actually means: there are many more projects today than you can give money and you have reduced the chance that a nuclear project will ever receive one cent from that fund to zero. Is that wise, particularly in view of your intention to spread our nuclear know-how around decommissioning in the world? Obviously, no more know-how should be developed, because you are opposed to supporting such projects and to the study work done, for example, by the KULeuven and a number of other universities in this area. You do devote a passage to MYRRHA in your policy paper, but I have the impression that it is rather the intention to end that story as quickly and preferably as elegantly as possible, from your point of view. I have asked in committee what the purpose of this is, but we have not heard any more about it. So I'm starting to wonder more and more whether that passage in the coalition agreement wasn't a text for the funeral of the MYRRHA than for the launch of the next phase of MYRRHA. We are among the world leaders in nuclear know-how. That is not a coincidence, because we have always been at the cradle of that kind of technology, which allowed us to prevent billions of tonnes of CO2 in the world. In my opinion, our country still counts the most handsome minds in the wide area. I have the impression that you want to pursue a kind of dismantling policy for this sector. That's not new. Your colleague, Mr Calvo, indicated during the previous legislature that the SCK would better change its name and only work on renewable energy as soon as possible. So I understand where that came from. Is it really wise to throw knowledge that we have collected for years on the streets and never to look at it again? That is a policy of destruction, and I do not understand why the government is going down that road. Madam Minister, I look forward to further clarification, even though you have already replied to me in committee that I should ask the questions again in committee. We are not on committee and perhaps you do not yet have an answer to my questions. That will be a working point for 2021. In any case, I fear that the energy policy you have outlined is not on the right track, far from it. I am also afraid that you have made one thing very clear: the core exit is the most important, regardless of the effect of that exit. The energy policy put forward here offers no certainty of affordability, no security of supply or sustainability. The greenest coalition agreement ever is mainly the coalition agreement where the environment will probably laugh the greenest at the end of the journey. That's all it's gonna bring. The rest of the country knows that, too. The keystones used all over the world to ensure that a country goes in the right direction are held in their pockets. The government's going the other way. That is difficult to understand, but there are more elements in your coalition agreement which I find very difficult to understand. Madam Secretary, I look forward to the answer. I still have a little quiet hope that it's gonna be okay. However, I fear that we will not find each other today unless we cross swords.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u145	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Greens are already rubbing their hands, because with Tinne Van der Straeten as Minister of Energy and Zakia Khattabi as Minister of Climate Policy, they have been given extremely important ministerial posts. Mrs Khattabi does not take her minister's post as seriously as I have just listened to her weak reply. It is not by chance, ladies and gentlemen, that the Greens are actually carrying out the core exit that they negotiated in the purple-green government Verhofstadt I at the time. How ironic. Politics in the corridors teaches me that not everyone is equally happy with the negotiated key step in the coalition agreement. I'll get back to that theme in a minute. The texts you are presenting, Mrs van der Straeten, are constantly starting with the economic recovery due to corona and the excellent opportunity to place climate and energy at the heart of economic relance. Allow me to say that our companies that are pumping today to avoid drowning and their many employees that they want to continue offering a job will be pleased with statements like this. The many companies that still have to get the economic bumps and which will soon be threatened with bankruptcy will be jumping as climate and energy will have to be the heart of the relic, while they feel abandoned. That is precisely where the problem lies, Madam Secretary. You like to give the people the feeling that what the Greens are so eager to do is that climate ambitions and the energy transition is a story that will only make us more successful, that we would even be stupid if we didn't take the chance, and that they would even save our economy. Or to put it another way, one plus one is equal to two. Madam Minister, I am the last to say that voluntarism and punitive good intentions are out of the question, but frankly, I must draw your attention to the limits of realism and therefore of ecorealism. After all, a bid for objectives only leads to even less realism. I understand that you need to find arguments to strengthen plans, that corona is seen as a valid excuse to create support, that today there is not enough among the Flemings and that, in my view, there will also be insufficient. Because that Fleming is worried, Madam Secretary. He's worried about his wallet, worried about the affordability of his or her energy. What you loved so much earlier in the press turned out to be true as well. After all, this government firmly reaffirms the core exit, according to the calendar as previously foreseen, but at the same time wants to guarantee the affordability of energy. In my opinion, these are two things that cannot be reconciled today. At the same time, this government says that in the event that it would not succeed, two gigawatts of nuclear power will remain intact and therefore a lifetime extension is still under consideration. Madam Secretary, you are playing with fire unless you have learned that from colleagues from the government who have experience of playing with fire. Even if I think you're smart enough, you're using it as a devious tactic by fooling other majority parties. However, you also know that the clock is ticking mercilessly. You know all too well that a lifespan extension is not the issue in a fingernip and that if you stretch and pull everything long enough a lifespan is not even possible anymore. You have enough experience in the matter to realize that a lifetime extension is a process that needs to be prepared years in advance. Madam Minister, you may not have rubbed your hands just because you were allowed to become Minister, no, you did so when ENGIE-Electrabel decided to pull the plug from investments that fit in a possible lifetime extension and de facto closed the door after you pulled the blood under their nails. Scientists and professors agree that nuclear energy is needed throughout the energy transition. I have mentioned your coalition partners before, because that is what it actually comes down to. At first they were for a lifetime extension and saw the need for it and now they are suddenly following the legal calendar and a revision of the law is no longer on the agenda. Yet, to put it appropriately, it blows hot and cold at the same time when you talk about the nuclear know-how that is present in our country and about the fact that you continue to support research activities, but secretly you would rather boycott them of all. The most cynical thing is that you want to use that know-how you recognise in other countries that are currently developing a nuclear exit strategy. You have recently turned your back on those research centres because of your statements and you do not seem to realise that most of the countries in the world that are currently generating energy using nuclear power plants are just opting for a lifetime extension to allow a realistic transition. France and Britain, for example, use nuclear energy just to achieve decarbonisation and so see it as a tool for this. Dogmatically, of course, you continue to deny it. Once again very appropriate in the theme, I say that you deny the light of the sun. There is no doubt that you are aware of the following proverb: you must not throw away old shoes until you have new ones. Those new shoes haven't been walked in by a long time. You will have a lot of blisters if these new shoes are called gas plants and imports of energy from abroad and the sore toe you will have is your image as a green minister that will ensure that Belgium, unlike all other European countries, will be the only country to emit more CO2 as a result of energy production. We will be the only country in Europe where so much energy is generated by gas. This will amount to a production of 60% with fossil fuels. Our average CO2 emissions will have a value of 229 grams per kilowatt hour, well above the European average. France will emit only 22 grams of CO2 per kilowatt hour, which is only 10% of Belgian emissions. Belgium will thus become one of the dirtiest generators in the world. The English climate think tank Ember, which you often dare to deny, even dangles our country at the back of the line. In fact, the Federal Planning Bureau has already calculated the impact of a lifetime extension. The energy sector would emit as much as 45% less CO2 over ten years compared to a complete closure. Honestly, Madam Secretary, the nuclear power stations are here now anyway. What would they have mattered for ten or twenty years if in return the transition in that time could be worked out properly? Reason and roll out without increasing dependency. Gas-fired power stations are not exactly an investment that is simply being built and put in the garbage in five or ten years' time, when it suits us as a Parliament. We are soon talking about 20 years of exploitation to make an investment responsible and not to oversubsidise it. How can it be sold as a green minister to the population and your climate youth, whom you are so eager to represent here, that after Poland you will use the largest share of fossil fuels to generate energy? It will therefore take much more to compensate for this. You rely, among other things, on the CRM, but whatever CRM will look like, it will be more expensive anyway. As I often hear you think here, we still have the interconnection with other countries. Madam Secretary, if this is your policy, you will still need the interconnection. However, when one claims that one will import cheap green energy, people are fooled. It merely points out that dogmatic thinking about nuclear energy must not only imply higher CO2 emissions, but also that we are making our country dependent on imports from abroad, which today cannot be guaranteed to be green and cheap. Our recent experiences with the import of energy were not exactly so successful and you will depend on abroad, because last year the share of solar and wind energy, which is very weather-dependent, was only 13% of the energy mix. With renewable energy sources only, therefore, we will not be able to reach it by 2025. I know that you are a fan of open borders, Madam Minister, and that makes you a big fan of trading allowances. If gas plants in Belgium produce electricity, we have to buy emission allowances from the European pot. For example, the price of emissions is being increased, which is often the story of your colleagues in Eastern Europe that polluting coal plants will be driven out of the market. The pot blames the kettle for seeing black: it itself emits more CO2 in order to dry out other sources on the other side of Europe is, as far as I am concerned, looking for a reason to condone the CO2 emission plants. To put it right again, Madam Secretary, it doesn't warm me up. I do not think it is a good starting point to discuss the development of the electricity grid with the Länder on a regular basis and to create support for citizens, businesses and local authorities. In the last few weeks, you often made the population frown the eyebrows. To say it again in the theme style, the population will not regard it as a gift with the warm hand. The citizen will feel it mostly in his wallet. Either he will have it as cold as a shaved sheep, because energy becomes too expensive, or he will be plucked bald like a chicken, because more than ever energy will be very precious. The Vivaldi government has also announced that when Belgium will chair the Benelux in 2021, the focus will be on the energy transition. So, with the Belgian Presidency, you may shine as proudly as a peacock that it warms you up, that we are the only country in Europe where CO2 emissions will increase, under the rule of the Greens. The government will also strengthen its links with the International Energy Agency, which advocates, among other things, the extension of our power stations. Or how some things can get a bitter aftertaste. Madam Minister, making energy storage possible in an affordable way is an important challenge that we must meet. In this context, I tabled a motion for a resolution asking the government to take the necessary measures and preparations for hydrogen. I look forward to the discussion of this proposal, on which I dare to expect a detailed debate. If you are opting for green hydrogen, Mrs Van der Straeten, you have a big problem. We need a great deal of energy to generate hydrogen, even though we are already suffering from a shortage. One can hardly import energy from abroad and then use it for the production of green hydrogen, because that would be very hilarious. Still, I'd say better late than never. I would advise you not to waste any time reinventing the wheel, but to look at projects that are already on track in our neighbouring countries. For example, look at the Netherlands that wants to be a pioneer and absolute leader in the field of hydrogen. Madam Minister, there is no doubt that energy transition is necessary. No party in the Chamber claims the opposite, not even the Flemish Interest. However, we are clearly different in terms of direction. We would have preferred to see the current mix preserved, with nuclear energy, to evolve gradually and in an affordable way towards more renewable energy, on our own strength and without being put under pressure by unrealistic targets. The path of evolution can in some cases be better than that of the revolution, especially in this case. Madam Secretary, you think it's gonna be all right while you're yawning like an oyster getting into the heat. Still, you're gonna do it cold. The coalition parties realize that all too well, but they stand by and look at it. I am particularly concerned that the government will take decisions in the coming years, which will hardly be able to correct your successors after the elections. What I've heard in the past few weeks only confirms that. The Greens will have disappeared by the tail between their legs, but it will not help our inhabitants and businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u146	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions at this evening's hour. It is now 10:09 p.m., at least a little earlier than when we had an energy debate in this hemisphere last time. That debate took place just before the summer and was far higher than the debate we are having today. We then reached an agreement in the debate in the hemisphere to unblock the CRM. That debate was based on facts and figures, not on insinuations and half-truths. I am therefore very disappointed at the level of the debate that is taking place here today. I expected more and better from you, not least because you know better. You know better than that. You say there's a small hope that we'll find each other. Excuse me, a small pile? Not long ago we found each other here, just because we listened to each other and because we put the importance of our country first. The importance of businesses, the importance of the economy in terms of energy security and the importance of businesses and citizens for an affordable energy bill brought us together. That was a high, important and good debate. Now there is a government, consisting of seven parties that have found each other and have written a chapter on energy in their coalition agreement. Today there is another meeting in the plenary room, but suddenly only prejudice and innuendo can be spoken of and comparisons made with molluscs and other animals. Apparently, figures and analyses cannot be discussed anymore or on the basis of objective matters. I regret that. Energy is crucial. Everyone needs it, no one can live without it. The debate that is taking place here does not pay any attention to the importance of the subject. That's what I'm resisting. Half-hearted policies have brought us together here, vision and expertise will take us on course. I know that Parliament can be a partner for me, because I have experienced this in several dossiers in the past year. The first time it happened when we unblocked the social energy funds, exactly a year ago. That proposal was approved in this Chamber because everyone in the hemisphere was convinced that people, one out of five Belgians could not pay their invoice, were entitled to those funds. We then created a coalition against energy poverty. That happened for the first time here in Parliament. The second time we found each other in this Parliament was at the structural anchoring, not only for 2019 but also for 2020. The third time was about CRM. We can all do better here together. However, when I hear you here today, I would like to say to the opposition that we can achieve more and better together. I should like to take up a number of specific points that you have made and which go beyond a number of insinuations and prejudices. Let me start by repeating what I said about the core exit and the CRM. I am convinced and the government is convinced that it is necessary to make a clear decision which sets the course and creates the framework within which we can work on the energy transition. This means that we will now implement a law that has existed since 2003. We have to do it. [[.]] There is now a lot of discussion about a law that is so old and that we simply want to implement. The law is here; we take the calendar and implement the law. I don't think it's that special. It does not seem special to me that a government wants to respect an existing legislative framework. At the same time, the government states that it will carry out an evaluation in November 2021 to see where we stand because the first auction took place at that time, and also states that it will register a safety net or emergency scenario that it may activate if necessary. It would be irresponsible not to. That's what the coalition agreement says. That is what the current government has agreed together. That's what I'll do. The coalition agreement is my business plan. The coalition agreement is my road map. I'm talking about the entire coalition agreement. I do not accept that it is spoken of in terms of 'we shall see','she did not mean to','she is smart, but leads the other people around the garden'. These words are detrimental to all people, to all businesses and to all citizens who are working on the energy transition today. I went to sea a few weeks ago to see the installation of the last wind turbine. Belgian teams have delivered a piece of music, even at sea, to assemble those wind turbines there. It's about Belgian expertise. These wind turbines contribute to our energy security and prosperity in our country. This is what energy policy is about. Energy policy is about investment, opportunities and opportunities. That's not about trouble and torment. That's about the way forward. That is why it is very important that we keep course in our energy policy. I guarantee you I'll keep my course. Mr Warmoes, you gave me the wind in the committee a few weeks ago about social energy policy, with a lot of big words. You said today that you are happy with the extension of the social tariff. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps you should judge me more by what I have done than by what I have said, which you are looking for. Mr Wollants, you have asked a number of questions for clarification on this social tariff, particularly as regards its financing. It is exactly as the government has communicated, there will be an extension from 1 February next year until the end of next year, for both gas and electricity. We do so because this is the quickest way to intervene for the one in five citizens who are having difficulty paying their energy bills. We have based this decision on the calculation and study work of my administration, the CREG and the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. After all, there is a huge amount of data in each of these three entities. It has been calculated and with the budget of EUR 88 million and a second EUR 88 million we come out perfectly. Mr Wollants, you also know, because I think you know a little bit more than you are suggesting, that the claims of suppliers for the reimbursement of the social tariff come in year +1. So you should not begin to conjure up lines of the budget here. You know very well how the system works. Colleagues, what we are talking about here in the end is that we are helping 1 million families today. We are helping one in five people today who are having a hard time paying his energy bill. I repeat, the stocking is not finished with this. The challenge before us is much greater, namely bringing the power of action into social energy policy. That is what the government and I, as Energy Minister, will be working on in the coming months to achieve greater effectiveness, greater efficiency and better use of resources. As far as the CRM resolution is concerned, I was co-author of that resolution. I was with you, Mr Wollants, the initiator of that resolution. I am still proud of that, I am still happy with it and I have repeated it in committee every time, and as far as it is necessary, I am doing so again, because it seems that there are doubts that I take this resolution to heart. I don't just take them to heart, it's even a guide to me. We agreed in that resolution what is important to Parliament when it comes to our system of replacement capacity. The resolution will help us figure out the route when it comes to the CRM design and its affordability. It is that resolution that has been incarnated in the coalition agreement. You asked me about these three elements, the recalculation of costs, the competitiveness of the electricity market and a concrete proposal on degressivity. This should be here by the end of the year. Mr Wollants, I have met several times in recent weeks on each of these three points. Even today, there's been a whole session about recalculating the cost. Those documents will be there. Apart from that, we will have a good debate in committee. Those documents will also raise questions and will help set the lines. They will help form the foundations of how we will shape the CRM system in the coming years. The reason why I won't be sending that in the next few hours, which you might have expected to do just now, is because I want to work on that further. I want to come to Parliament with something good and solid, and I certainly do not want to send Parliament with a piece of cake. I want to do that as you are used to me, on the basis of facts and figures. Only with decent work can we deliver a proper CRM. Meanwhile, a study has been launched by my administration on the future and decarbonisation of molecules. You were linking biofuels to that. Mr Warmoes also keeps coming back to that. You're never satisfied with the answer. I repeat my answer that there will be a feasibility study. The fact that there will be a feasibility study is embedded in our National Energy and Climate Plan. We'll base our policies on facts and figures, so I'm waiting for that study. What is wrong with waiting for a study unless you feel that there is no need for facts, figures or analysis for a policy? That's not my choice, that's not the way I want to do policy. The same applies to Synatom, the same applies to the Energy Transition Fund. That fund is intended for projects contributing to the energy transition within the domains belonging to the federal state. This is therefore about renewable energy, about nuclear energy applications and about security of supply and grid balance. There is a nuclear project that can be said to fit into the energy transition. That's MYRRHA. You referred to it. MYRRHA has been fully funded for the first phase. The second and third phases will come after an audit with national and international experts has been carried out and after the contribution of international funds is guaranteed. That's already there. The choice has been made to give a lot of money. Now the choice is to give priority to other technologies that contribute to the energy transition. We all need them. We have a lot of expertise in our companies and in our knowledge institutions to make a nice story about it. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard a lot of words here, but I have actually heard no alternative here, except the status quo. I would like to refer to what a professor said in the newspaper not so long ago: it is sometimes like staring a rabbit at a light box. The status quo brought us here. The status quo will not take us any further. What will take us further is vision and expertise, keeping focus, and working step by step on the energy transition. That's the government's policy, that's my policy, too. This will be based on facts and figures, creating a framework for the market to shape the transition. Finally, I would like to say a few words about last week's events. Mr Warmoes mentioned this earlier. The CREG has published a study and communicated on Tuesday, in which it concludes that many families are trapped in overpriced, dormant energy contracts. Those contracts are old and are no longer actively offered, but are automatically renewed each time. Moreover, it is not the first time that the CREG has carried out this analysis. It is Mr Verduyckt, who put that item on the committee's agenda in Parliament at the time, and hearings were organised to deal with these contracts. At the same time, I note that name and shame has never helped anyone, not a single consumer. On the initiative of my colleague, Mr De Bleeker, who is not only responsible for the budget but also for consumer affairs, I, together with her and Mr Dermagne, responsible for the economy, had a discussion with the suppliers whose CREG counted as having problematic dormant energy contracts. You can call that a non-binding approach, those are your words. What I am going to go on is the commitment of each of those four companies to come up with a short-term plan to deal with the problematic contracts. We have clearly expressed our expectations, namely that we want to see them phased out and that there will be no new ones, and one of the suppliers has told us that in January some of his customers will change their contracts. I do not think, Mr Warmoes, that that is without obligation. In my view, a proactive approach in a constructive way is making more sense. That's what proved our conversation last Monday. You can count on both my colleague De Bleeker and my colleague Dermagne and myself to follow that up. I have no use for many expensive words, prejudices or insinuations, and those who are trapped in such a contract have even less use for that. What good is it to these people? A government that is willing to deal with the problems will help them. That is what the government is doing, and I suggest that you question me about it instead of half-truths and insinuations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u147	Madam Secretary, you are actually saying here that you are the only one who knows what this is all about, when the opposition is just blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, After we had put all our technical and substantive questions to you in committee, you said that you would not give any concrete answers in the context of the discussion of the policy statement and that we had to put them as oral questions in committee, which had a tendency to deal with a lot of them because you did not want to. That's what it sounded like. Worse still, the chairman of the committee noted, when you left the room, that you might have to go to the VRT. So I have a problem with that. If I ask what will actually happen to certain things, then I will not get an answer, not in committee or now either. I asked questions about the energy standard, but I can't get an answer to that. I have asked questions about its own objectives for the buildings and I cannot get an answer to them. You then consider it useful to wipe out Parliament here, because you know it and we do not. Excuse me, this place is really crossing boundaries. I have to say that you are here to explain the social tariff and that the budget is therefore wrong. In the budget, if I am not mistaken on page 14, there is a need for EUR 88 million for electricity alone. You're saying that's not true. Then why is it in the tables like that? I don't really know why you say it that way. We will continue to ask you about this, because I remember very well what is in the resolution and why this timing is being put forward. That is to ensure that Parliament gets the documents in time and we can judge them and ask questions. I am not saying that we are all great specialists for every part of the CRM, far from it, but we do have the democratic right to control and ensure that what needs to be done is done. I am concerned when you ask in committee to give you time to deliver this at a later date. There is a reason why we have written together in the resolution that this has to come now. That is because otherwise we always go after the facts, to ensure that Parliament is not toothless and cannot weigh on them. I also have a problem with you prohibiting us from asking questions in committee to the follow-up committee, the CREG, Elia or AD Energy and requiring us to turn to you. If you dismiss my comment as blah, I'm afraid you're locked in your own bubble. Then I will continue to ask you questions, even though you may not answer them again and again. Sooner or later, I'll get the information to frame things well. Know very well that behind all the things I put forward are figures. You know that as well as I do. The issues put forward here are, of course, based on a number of issues. It is not a coincidence that a whole series of academics say that the core step should perhaps be called into question. There's a reason for that. You may not agree with that reason. You have a good right not to agree with that reason, but do not deny it and do not wipe it under the mat like blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. That is absolutely not the case. Let us be honest, we will debate this more often. You just got angry about the fact that I only had a small pile. Even that hope is still too great for the debate today, because I have not received the answers I have asked, and I will continue to haunt you with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u148	Madam Minister, I would like to address two very specific points. Firstly, you have indeed provided a very brief report of your conversation, together with the Secretary of State and Minister Dermagne's cabinet, with suppliers about the dormant energy contracts. I have also seen the press release of the sp.a and that has a different tonality. Mr Verduyckt had difficulty in finding consensus in that press release. He said that we should not seek consensus with suppliers, but that we should actually ban it. That is a different tonality from yours, Mrs Consensuela, to call you that, Madam Secretary. In addition, there is the extension of the target group on social rates. You know, I am surprised that your draft law of May-June, which was discussed in committee, and the Ben Achor bill, were not received with great enthusiasm by the CREG, the FPS Economy and the suppliers. I also submitted this to Minister Dermagne in the Committee on Social Affairs, when it came to the sintering class amendment of 23.59 hours, representing EUR 176 million in its entirety. He told me then that all this was settled in the run-up to the formation of government. All the concerns of the administrations and the suppliers are all old-fashioned. I didn't hear that from you. You have communicated about this in the press, on the front page of De Standaard's communication was for you, but the dirty work was for Minister Dermagne. I thought that was a strange way of working, but I am sure you will explain the whole thing later. That's how I know you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u149	Madam President, Minister, you have actually just said that you, as Energy Minister, have the truth. Actually, you don't really like the opposition. I think that has just been demonstrated here. Preferably even if you keep the opposition at a distance as much as possible. In response to that, I will be happy to step up and pierce things, because you will meet me on your way. You also said that the opposition is not proposing alternatives here. Well, I do not think you have listened carefully to what I have said here. I said very clearly what I want and what I would do if I were on the buttons. You also refer to a number of facts and figures and accuse the opposition of half-truths and such. What, however, have you just supported with facts and figures? Support your speech and convince me, Madam Secretary. However, you do not. Perhaps you should look more closely at the facts and figures yourself, and then draw conclusions. After all, I know what the problem is: the dogma on a number of themes. Nuclear energy is one of those themes. You are distracting attention here today with a playful indignation. Allow me to put it this way, because that's what it comes down to. As far as I am concerned, the analysis of nuclear energy is clear, because I am based on professors and scientists and I am also looking at how this dossier is dealt with in other countries. All this is not important to you, you put it all aside, you deny the light of the sun. I now find that level of questionable quality. You say that we have to wait until November 2021 to see if the emergency scenario will be necessary, but you will be hopelessly late. If nuclear power stations were to be extended, they would take years, which would mean that we would even have to temporarily shut down nuclear power stations, which would mean that we would have to deal with an energy gap. Madam Secretary, what you're saying here is wrong. I would say that you should first examine the facts and figures yourself before making any accusations against the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u150	Madam President, it is unbelievable. The arrogance and complacency of both Mrs Khattabi, who has left in the meantime, and Mrs Van der Straeten, I simply do not think we should do so. Mrs van der Straeten, you know everything and everything we say are half truths and incorrect figures. They're insinuations. Mrs Khattabi insinuates that I was not present on the committee. However, my colleague Greet Daems was there. Mrs van der Straeten, if you are so well aware, give the answers to our questions in committee. I'm sick of it. We are going to the committee for Mrs Khattabi or for you. We always ask the same questions about biofuels, among others. However, there will never be an answer. I'm chairing the Health Commission. When Minister Vandenbroucke comes to the committee, he answers our questions. We ask questions and he answers. On the other hand, you're always spinning around the pot. I don't know why. No, I know why. The truth hurts and we ask the right questions. After all, you betrayed your own program. That is your problem, and it hurts, of course, when I remind you. For example, biofuels are on Green's website that food is primarily used to eat and not as biofuel. May I hope you had a study done before you posted it on your party website? There are studies and opinions from the Central Council for Business. I believe, however, that the business community is very fond of you. There are opinions from the Federal Council for Sustainable Development and the Policy Coherence Advisory Council. All these opinions propose, on the basis of facts and figures, to phase out biofuels. However, you would like another feasibility study, which is, by the way, an old dossier from your predecessor, Mrs Marghem. What is needed is simply political courage, against commercial interests and against the Community's positions. However, you do not accept that responsibility. You also point out that Mr Warmoes is not satisfied with the social tariff and that he has given you the wind in committee. However, I have said in committee that we are satisfied with your extension of the social tariff. However, what I have been angry about is that you have not answered the question about the Gas and Electricity Fund. I did not discuss it during my speech, but you have now spoken about it yourself. Indeed, there has been an indexation in 2019 and 2020. However, you also know from the study of the Platform Against Energy Poverty, published by the King Baudouin Foundation, that more is needed and that the indexation mechanism needs to be adjusted. The OCMWs today, especially in these times of crisis, do not have enough resources to help people with their energy bills and to help them invest in energy saving, something you should be fond of. I asked you what you would do about it. You voted away our resolution and said that this required legislative work and that no resolution was produced. Ecolo-Green has tabled many resolutions, but well. Now you're no longer a representative of the people, now you're even a minister. Then do it. Now you have everything in your hands. I was not satisfied with that, but of course I was satisfied with the social rate. Sleeping contracts, I still have my reservations. How naive or gullible can one actually be? A conversation is noncommittal to me. I don't know what the tone of that conversation was. You referred to Mr Verduyckt's resolution. What's really gonna happen now? You trust it, and within a year you may be able to talk to those executives again. I note, moreover, that, since the government took office, the legislative work in the Committee on Climate Change, which has already lost some weight, has now completely ceased. Mr Dewael is not here right now, but there were many legislative proposals there three months ago and they are still there. It's just not progressing. Madam Minister, I do not have immediate memories of that day beginning of July with the CRM resolution. If you think that's a memorable moment, it'll tell you something about your opinion on democracy. After all, a resolution was smashed down our throats at the time. We received a resolution of 17 pages half an hour before the sitting began. That text was besieged by a large number of parties. We were not there, nor did we approve of it. I find that absolutely not memorable. We couldn't read that in advance. I protested against this and the debate was closed. Bam, two hours and it was voted on. You might think that's a memorable moment, but I don't. Finally, you speak of prejudice. We have a new government here. We are talking about a budget. We are talking about intentions, about a government statement, about policy papers. You can talk about prejudice. I'm just saying how I feel about that. I'm a scientist. I'll give you rendezvous in 2024. If the results are great, then I will acknowledge that I was wrong. That is not about prejudice; I am simply saying what I think of the politics you wish to conduct.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u151	Madam President, I would like to get an answer to my very specific question. I mentioned two themes. How do you reconcile the extension of the social tariff with the negative opinions of May and June? What is your position on the sp.a's reaction to the dormant energy contracts, a reaction with a different tone?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u152	You can always look for nails on low water. If that's the game, of course we can play it. In the spring there were two legislative proposals for an extension of the social tariff, one from the green family and one from the red family. That of the green family was about extending the social rate to people who were eligible for the increased allowance +30 %. The socialist family bill was about extending the target group from the social rate to anyone entitled to temporary unemployment and the bridging credit for self-employed workers. This has been the subject of opinions, among others from the CREG, which indicated that the proposal of the Greens, in particular to opt for increased compensation +30 %, could not automatically apply the social tariff. There were also comments on the Socialists' bill. This included the entry into force of the measures and their duration. These two opinions, of course, have enabled us to further refine our position on the extension of the social tariff at the time when seven parties have negotiated the government agreement. We also wanted to make our starting points very clear, in particular that automatic allocation is very important. If there is no automatic allocation, we see an underutilisation of what people are entitled to. So we couldn't work with the increase in income. So we said that we would only rely on the increased compensation. The data is known at the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. So we could go for the automatic award. Mr Ravyts, in this way we have taken account of the opinions given there. Secondly, there is a budget of EUR 88 million twice that will be added, but you also know that the cash out happens at the time the suppliers submit their claim, which is year plus one. What does that mean? By working in this way, we keep the ESA impact under control. Yes, this work is well done. The most important thing is that a lot of people will be entitled to that social rate from February, without having to do anything. The second question slips away from me. Could you repeat that for me, please?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u153	It was about the dormant energy contracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u154	That's also looking for nails on low water. The government agreement states that we will continue to investigate these dormant energy contracts, which will result in recommendations, which will then be addressed. That's what the coalition agreement says. We have had hearings here in Parliament, including with a number of players. That was very interesting. These have led to the need to ask some additional questions with regard to dormant energy contracts. For example, the CREG study is only about private customers, not about SMEs. It makes sense to also look at SMEs that are also faced with the same practices. Indeed, in the electricity and gas markets, private customers and SMEs are given the same tariff cards and conditions. We have already received a great deal of information on private customers from the CREG today, but not on SMEs. We also share the view that effective action should be taken on the practice of dormant energy contracts. In the meantime, if a number of companies make a concrete commitment to phase out these products, I can only be happy about that, because that is a direct win for the customers. I did not say here that we will be satisfied with that. I have just said that we, the three competent colleagues, will follow up and monitor this and that we will see each other soon. People ask: when will that be? Maybe next year? No, we'll see each other again on January 15th. It is not the first time that the CREG has denounced this practice. Moreover, it has been the direct input for Mr Verduyckt to submit a legislative proposal. That practice has been around for a long time. What do we see now? There's gonna be a collaboration between the suppliers and the government. The government has decided not to wait and has met the suppliers. We saw it on the day before the CREG announced its results because we did not want to communicate with the energy suppliers via the press. Naming-and-shaming has never helped a single consumer. But Parliament is a partner for us. If, in the end, energy suppliers fail to fulfil their commitment, legal action must be taken. It's ready. In that sense, you can look for nails on low water, but the timings are perfectly coordinated. That is what I meant earlier when I said that Parliament could be the first partner for a dilapidate energy policy. We can do that if we look at the problems together, but we focus even more together on the solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip077x.u155	This ends the theme of energy. We have to take a technical break for a quarter of an hour, so we're at 11:05 p.m. I would also like to inform you that the last two texts are postponed until tomorrow morning, namely the budget and the general policy note of the Commission for the Regulation of Electricity and Gas (CREG) for the year 2021 (No. 1678/1), as well as the draft law establishing the army contingent for the year 2021 (No. 1690/1). The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, December 16, 2020 at 11:05 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Wednesday 16 December 2020 at 23.05 a.m.
