ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic240x.u1	Mr Flahaut is not yet here, but I will ask him my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic240x.u2	Minister, World solidarity analysed the expenditure of Belgian development cooperation on social protection. The analysis shows that Belgian expenditure on humanitarian aid increased sharply, from EUR 88.5 million in 2009 to EUR 180.9 million in 2018. It is, of course, important to invest in humanitarian aid. We have made this clear in previous resolutions, including when it was about Syria. In the long term, it is also crucial to invest in robust social protection systems, which in normal times provide a guarantee of income for everyone and ensure access to essential services such as health care. However, we are seeing a decrease in expenditure in the social protection sector, from EUR 8.8 million in 2009 to EUR 1.9 million in 2018. Also in the job creation sector there is a decline from 16.4 million to 10.6. For health care, there was an increase between 2008 and 2014, but since then spending fell again, from 139.8 million in 2014 to 103.5 million in 2018. When we look at spending per actor, we see that Belgium invested around 24 million euros in Wonderful Work, or 2.4 percent of total expenditure on development cooperation. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. How do you respond to this analysis? What concrete measures will you take to create a policy framework for social protection in Belgian development cooperation? What concrete steps will you take to increase the resources for social protection?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic240x.u3	Madam President, my answer is also an answer to Mr Flahaut's question, which is not present, but we can deliver it to him. Indeed, the figures quoted by World Solidarity are well known. Humanitarian aid budgets have increased considerably in recent years. The world is facing ever-increasing and long-term humanitarian crises, where it would be humanly unthinkable not to make any financial resources available for them. In addition to this emergency aid, it is essential to pay sufficient attention to the resilience of the population. This resilience can make a difference in certain crises, especially in a crisis like we are experiencing with COOVID-19. One of the mechanisms that can support the resilience of the population is strong social protection, which also provides for the weaker. The paper position dated October 2019 and entitled "Pistes de réflexion du dialogue belge sur la protection sociale. Establishing and strengthening social protection in developing countries" is the basis for Belgian development cooperation in the field of social protection. This document contains the consensus guidelines as well as the respective roles of the various Belgian actors in cooperation and suggests ways of thinking for the future. In 2019, Belgian Development Cooperation drew up a framework paper on social protection. This note reflects the willingness of the Belgian actors concerned to act in a coordinated manner on this issue. On the other hand, the non-governmental actors for decent work are also organised among themselves within a coordination platform and have jointly established a common strategic framework, listing the essential objectives they have set themselves for a period of five years. This is a solid basis on which the 2017 to 2021 programmes of these actors are based and is also a way to concretely valorise Belgian expertise in this field. In financial terms, DGD allocates a contribution to social protection through three different funding channels. First, multilateral cooperation in the budget of the International Labour Organization results in a mandatory contribution of some 3 million per year and a voluntary contribution of the same amount. Secondly, bilateral cooperation for the establishment of health mutualities is being carried out in several partner countries, in particular Senegal. Thirdly, non-governmental cooperation is developing a common strategic framework on the themes of decent work, employment, social protection, the right to work and social dialogue, which is implemented by nine Belgian NGOs in 38 countries for a total amount of EUR 92 million. Finally, in response to the COOVID-19 crisis and its socio-economic impact, I have now agreed in principle to finance the ILO EUR 2 million, which will be paid in 2020 for the Flagship Programme on Building Social Protection Floors for All in Senegal and Burkina Faso. With regard to the actions taken by Belgian cooperation in the field of social protection, I would like to remind you of the creation in September 2018 of the Belgian Dialogue on Social Protection, of which DGD is a member, which is a place for information sharing, capacity building and exchange in favour of the inclusion of social protection in development cooperation. The network also organizes conferences such as the universal social protection conference held in November 2019. In October 2019, the document "Pistes de réflexion" was completed after lengthy consultations. At the Belgium-ILO bilateral consultation on 27 December 2019 in Geneva, social protection was discussed as part of the achievement of the sustainable development objectives related to the ILO mandate. Supporting and investing in social protection by strengthening national social protection systems will ensure access to health care, while supporting job security and the incomes of those most affected, thereby reducing the impact of the crisis by increasing the resilience of the population. In addition, in the longer term, investment in the social protection of some of our partners will contribute to the establishment of universal social protection in these countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic240x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. COOVID-19 has made it clear that social protection is indeed a crucial issue for development cooperation. I welcome the fact that, as a result of COOVID-19, you have given additional resources to the ILO. It is important that all channels, strategic frameworks and cooperation platforms around this theme always exist. It may be necessary to look into the future and consider whether additional resources should not be spent on the basis of the crises we are experiencing today, not only in connection with COOVID-19, but all humanitarian crises. Social protection systems need to be developed to ensure that people are given sufficient resilience.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic240x.u5	The restructuring process of Feronia and/or subsidiaries is a process independent of the loans provided to Feronia and therefore does not directly concern BIO. In addition, this restructuring process will take several months. It is currently impossible to estimate the possible impact on the contract between BIO and Feronia. This sale/transfer of Feronia's rights to a consortium based in Mauritius is only one of the possible outcomes of Feronia's restructuring among others. BIO, which must approve the result of the restructuring, will ensure that it complies with the BIO law. Indeed, a reflection is under way on the creation of a foundation to fulfil Feronia's social commitments. Feronia-PHC is required to comply with legal obligations and contracts signed with BIO and other loan providers. Compliance with these obligations is verified by carrying out regular visits to Feronia's activities in the field, together with an independent expert. BIO will question Feronia about the follow-up to the mediation process with local communities. BIO and other development financial institutions will ensure that the mediation process is taken into account in Feronia's restructuring process. BIO and other loan providers will ensure that the restructuring does not affect Feronia-PHC's commitments to communities. The outcome of the restructuring announced on 22 May is far from known. BIO and other loan providers must approve new shareholders of their customers. BIO and other loan providers have Know Your Customer procedures with reference to the duty of vigilance to ensure the acceptability of any new shareholder. Finally, with regard to Feronia's communication on the need for an agreement from Belgium, the Belgian State does not intervene in the restructuring of a commercial entity. The purpose of Feronia's communication is therefore unclear. As I have just indicated, BIO will have to approve the restructuring, and will do so in accordance with the management contract signed with the Belgian State.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic240x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answer. As I understand it, the sales date of August 15 is not confirmed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic240x.u7	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic240x.u8	In doing so, everything is still open. It is particularly important to note that this project, which poses many questions and difficulties, is again put on the table with a prospect of resale of the company, while the latter is engaged in a development project with the Belgian State. You've given a lot of information. So I'm going to have to look at the latter a little bit closer. Having said that, you yourself say that you do not fully understand the passage of the letter according to which we must obtain the agreement of Belgium. So we're going to have to follow the question. Furthermore, I should not remind you that Feronia is part of a process of mediation with local communities. Will you personally ensure that this process is carried out to its end, despite the hypothetical resale? I mean, you're going to make sure that all of BIO's objectives can be pursued in case of resale. But this is about a consortium in a tax haven. You've taken actions that are clear enough to stop giving public money to companies based in tax havens. You should therefore be able to use existing levers to ensure respect for local communities and to ensure that public money is not given to tax havens. I hope that if Belgium is to give its consent, you will be clear and clear about these issues. Anyway, I'm afraid I'll have to come back to you in a few weeks to find out what's going on.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic240x.u9	Debates of the European Parliament 55007430C by Mrs Kathleen Depoorter will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic240x.u10	Minister, Tunisia has managed to reap the political fruits of the jasmine revolution. It remains nevertheless fragile, not only politically but also economically. Its difficulties, already present before the epidemic, have worsened as the tourist season promises to be catastrophic. This sector, vital for the country, is going through its fourth major crisis in nine years. The IMF, in its April report, announced a growth contraction of 4.3% and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 2.5%. In 2017, a resolution on support for Tunisia by Belgium was adopted. Among the many requests addressed to the federal government, ranging from military cooperation to socio-economic support, was the strengthening of our development cooperation through "all available instruments". Minister, what action has been taken on this point? In the current difficult economic context, what are the actions taken by the Belgian government – both bilaterally and Europeanly – to strengthen our support for this state, which is somewhat at the forefront of the process of democratisation in the Arab world? What about the possibility of making Tunisia a partner country in our government development cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic240x.u11	Madam President, Mr Ben Achour, Belgium, Belgian Development Cooperation is governed by the Act of 19 March 2013 on development cooperation, as amended on 16 June 2016. It brings together the objectives of Belgian international cooperation, its strategies, the different types and actors of cooperation and the criteria for selecting partner countries for government cooperation. Several criteria have been defined for the choice of partner countries. More specifically, the level of poverty and inequality in the partner country, the cooperative advantage of Belgian Development Cooperation and its role in it, the efforts made by the partner countries on its socio-economic development, the partner country's efforts on good governance and human rights, and the relative importance of Belgian Development Cooperation in the partner country in terms of the volume and existence of a division of labour among donors in the partner countries. The 2014 government agreement provided for a maximum of 15 partner countries. The government has retained fourteen of them, and Tunisia is not one of them. However, according to the criteria, Tunisia could indeed be reintegrated into the list of partner countries, which will no longer be reviewed by the current government in day-to-day affairs. Of course, the future government could undertake a revision of the list of partner countries according to the above criteria. Our contribution through the European Union's development budgets, and more specifically through its neighbourhood instrument, is partially destined for Tunisia. In this regard, I can mention the Team Europe initiative, which aims to help the partner countries of the European Union – including Tunisia – to cope with the consequences of the VOCID-19 crisis in terms of humanitarian aid, health and socio-economic effects. Belgium will actively contribute to this initiative, in addition to the new programming of the aid programmes for the years 2021 to 2027, which is under discussion and of which Tunisia will be one of the beneficiary countries. The budgets available for this programme are steadily increasing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic240x.u12	Minister, thank you. I therefore note that the list is still open and that there is still a place for an additional country. I also note that Tunisia could meet the eligibility criteria for Belgian cooperation. Finally, I take it that this is a matter that will concern the future government. In any case, I will continue to plead for Tunisia to become a partner of Belgium. Everyone will remember that what was called the "Arab Spring" began in Tunisia, in a poor region, with the immolation of a man who was at the end of the roll, without prospects for the future. There are areas where unemployment can reach up to 30 per cent of the population, especially young people. Social movements, protest movements were born a few months ago in the region of Tataouine, a poor region of Tunisia. Like me, you know the disparities in development between the coastal areas, Tunis and Djerba, and the interior of the country, which is particularly affected by non-development. It will be necessary to return to this issue and to give Tunisia rapid prospects for development and cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic240x.u13	Yes, ma'am, because the answer is a great drama. It's long enough. Debt problems may become uncontrollable for a number of developing countries because of the impact of VOCID-19 on their expenditures and incomes. It cannot therefore be ruled out that debt forgiveness is necessary. As a first step, it was decided to allow a moratorium on the debt service of the poorest countries for those countries that so wished. This temporary moratorium on renewable 2020 maturities in 2021 is only liquidity support, with the net present value of the receivables maintained. This measure can provide temporary relief and allow the countries concerned to free up resources for the costs of VOCID-19. Second, solvency problems can sometimes be solved through debt rescheduling, in which the principal debt to be repaid is not reduced, but in which the maturities are spread over a longer period, so that the liquidative value of the outstanding debt is reduced and becomes more bearable. If debt sustainability cannot be guaranteed by intervening in the flow of finance, intervention at the level of the capital of the debt must be made, forgetting all or part of the debt in the form of partial or complete debt cancellation. A debt relief operation is particularly useful and interesting for the poorest countries that rely mainly on concessional support for their financing and have little or no access to the financial market. The complexity of a debt relief operation in which international financial institutions play a major role has increased further in recent years with the growing influence of creditors such as China, vulture funds and private funds that are not anchored in multilateral or consultative structures such as the Paris Club. Although Belgium has a strong voice in a number of institutions, it is clear that a real influence on the debate can only be achieved through strong and coordinated European action. It should also be stressed that the financial impact of a debt relief operation for Belgium is important. The financial impact for our country depends on many parameters: types of country, debt, what period, what debt reduction is targeted, etc. Given the uncertainty as to how debt relief would be possible, it is currently impossible to calculate the total and final cost. Of course, if all countries eligible for debt restructuring were to receive 100% relief, the entire cost to our country would be almost €3 billion. Since Belgium's claims are known and their origin, the proposed audit offers little added value. The same applies to the communication of relevant contracts and documents linking our country to debtor countries. In addition, these are, among other things, commercial contracts that we cannot disclose. For state-to-state loans, I can refer to the annual reports of the Finexpo Committee which provide information on the use of loans. As for the IDA countries which have submitted a request for a debt moratorium due to the crisis of the VOCID-19, I can confirm that, on the basis of the official figures of 6 July 2020, 39 countries have taken the necessary steps to benefit from the Debt Service Suspension Initiative: 34 of them have approached the Paris Club in this context, 11 of them have bilateral debts to Belgium. The analysis of the impact of debt relief on our country therefore helps to guide Belgium in formulating a reorientation of our country in legislation on a large-scale debt relief operation. Our country promotes a multilateral approach in international fora with the widest possible representation of creditors. Belgium will promote a European approach that is in line with Team Europe's logic. Any operation must be based on a debt analysis by the IMF and the World Bank and requires full transparency of debt data. Debt relief should be granted on the basis of objective criteria and on the basis of voluntary action by debtor countries. There should therefore be room for a differentiated approach taking into account the specific context of the country concerned. In order not to compromise the functioning of the institutions, the participating international financial institutions must be fully compensated. Debt relief must be linked to conditions (governance reform, climate action, etc.).). The conditions set should be part of strengthening our development policy priorities and should be associated with measures to support debt management, to promote and mobilise domestic resources and to combat illicit capital flows. This means that the assistance offered will not only be of a financial nature, but will also be accompanied by technical and legal assistance. Finally, it goes without saying that sufficient control is required with regard to the implementation of the conditions attached to debt relief. This can be done, for example, through a step-by-step approach or positive conditionality.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic240x.u14	Minister, thank you. As you have said many things, I will not be able to react to all aspects of your answer. We are taking part in a multilateral approach which, in your opinion, must be coordinated by the European Union and the Paris Club. The need to act multilaterally is obvious, but this should not prevent our country from adopting more ambitious measures, since we are still responsible for the debts related to them. In addition, we can serve as an example. In addition, you are challenging the relevance of an audit. However, this is what the Senate called for in its resolution adopted by the majority in 2007. The same request was made by the 2016 Policy Coherence Advisory Board. If a parliamentary body and a civil society actor specializing in these issues ask you, it shows a need to identify legitimate debts and those that are abhorrent. In this way, Parliament and government will be able to form informed choices when it comes to eventually reducing debt in the longer term. Secondly, you are talking about three billion in the event of full relief of all the debts owed to Belgium, which no one is asking for. On the other hand, it is a matter of targeting those who need to be unconditionally targeted for 2020-2021, before developing an audit-driven reflection to rethink our repayment strategy. We will continue this work. You know that we have introduced a motion for a resolution which we hope will be able to discuss calmly, on the basis of everyone's opinions, at the beginning of the parliamentary year. I simply regret that we cannot access the contract and organise a parliamentary audit, if necessary in consultation with civil society. Thank you for your answers and do not doubt that we will return to them again at the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic240x.u15	Madam, I was informed of this violent and regrettable event by Entraide and Fraternité in a letter dated 6 July. The SOFA association is supported by the OSC Entraide et Fraternité as part of its five-year programme. During the period 2017-2021, we will continue to financially support the approved program of Entraide and Fraternity as well as their local partners, including the association SOFA, all members of the Haitian platform of advocacy for alternative development. At present, Entraide and Fraternity has not requested any modification of its programme with a view to providing specific support in response to the problem. My administration informed the Belgian Embassy on 7 July. The possibilities for follow-up and response to this event are being explored in collaboration with the Commission and the various departments concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic240x.u16	Minister, we were informed that the Embassy in Cuba had been able to respond and that a reflection was under way with DGD. This is already a comfort in itself for local organizations, which must be extremely poor in the face of the rowed attacks against them. A few days ago we received the report of the symposium we had on Closing Civic Spaces, which we had organized with DGD and diplomacy. Several of its recommendations remind us that civil society organizations are at the forefront of violent repression in authoritarian countries and of major projects by private organizations that believe they have all rights. This is clearly the case here with the active partner in Haiti. I understood that DGD was going to incorporate these new constraints of civil society into its approach. We would be interested to see how strategies to support civil society by DGD can meet its needs. These organizations are attacked in the exercise of their human rights work. We are interested to see further work on the basis of the publication of this report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic240x.u17	Madam President, Minister, the United Nations announced on 9 July that they had been forced to reduce their assistance to millions of African refugees due to a lack of funding. This is an alarm signal which is all the more worrying given that they suffer the full impact of the VOCID-19 crisis. As the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Filippo Grandi, recalled, these individuals are more dependent on humanitarian aid for food than ever before. Money is missing and the figures speak for themselves. For example, the World Food Programme (WFP) — which provides food aid to more than 10 million refugees — has already had to cut by 50 per cent its aid to Central African internally displaced persons in Cameroon for the months of May and June, and is planning a complete halt as early as August for lack of financial support. At the Bidibidi site in Uganda, WFP reduced food rations by 30 per cent for the same reasons. The institution estimates its needs at $1.2 billion, of which 694 would go to Africa. With this sum, it believes that it will be able to cope with the consequences of the crisis for the period from July to December. The United Nations Agency for Refugees (UNHCR) is seeking $745 million under the United Nations Global Humanitarian Response Plan to VOCID-19, including $227 million for operations in Africa. The two agencies therefore appeal to governments to combine refugee issues with pandemic responses and to provide additional funding. You are aware, Mr Minister, of the importance which my group attaches to food security, for which, at the initiative of my colleague Christophe Lacroix, we have secured the establishment of a parliamentary working group and which we want to restore to its full priority of Belgian development cooperation. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. Have you heard of this call? What follow-up will be given by our country? Finally, what actions are being taken at European and United Nations level to respond to them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic240x.u18	Mr. Ben Achour, I can confirm that I have read this call from the United Nations. Belgium allocates the majority of its funding in a flexible and predictable manner by contributing, on the one hand, to the general resources of international organisations and, on the other hand, to so-called flexible funds which enable Belgian humanitarian partners to respond quickly, on the basis of needs-based priorities when a crisis breaks out or to help people suffering from forgotten crises. Belgium is contributing, inter alia, €4.5 million to the overall resources of the World Food Programme (WFP) and €8 million to the overall resources of UNHCR. It is up to these organizations to decide how the funding will be allocated. In addition, in response to the VOCID-19 pandemic, I decided to increase the Belgian annual contribution to the WFP fund and the UN Food and Agriculture Fund SFERA by €2.5 million for each of these funds, bringing the Belgian contribution to these funds to €7.5 million and €6.5 million respectively for 2020. These funds are managed in accordance with the procedures established by the organizations in charge. It is thus up to them to define the priorities in the funding allocated through this mechanism. These various financings bear witness to the importance I attach to food security and to the plight of the refugee populations, which remain very important on the Belgian humanitarian aid agenda. At this stage, we do not yet have an overview of the response that will be given to this problem by the European Union, its Member States or the United Nations. We continue to advocate in the forums for a coordinated and ambitious response to the refugee problem, particularly in the context of the implementation of the Africa strategy that the European Union has just adopted earlier this month, as well as the Global Compact on Refugees.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic240x.u19	Minister, thank you for your answers. I can only encourage you to continue your efforts with our European partners. This situation is unacceptable to all. I have cited a few examples, but I could have added South Sudan, the situation in Ethiopia and the situation in South Africa, the Sahel. The situation is getting worse because the funds are falling as prices rise. The average price of the basic food basket in the DRC increased by 15% and, in Rwanda, food was on average 27% more expensive in April 2020 than in 2019 and 40% more expensive than in 2018. So there is a form of inflation that makes the situation on the spot even more dramatic, situations in which we cannot remain inactive and silent. I once again encourage you to continue your efforts in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic240x.u20	Debates of the European Parliament 55007852C by Mr Cogolati will be converted into a written question at his request.
