ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u1	Minister, when I submitted my question in mid-October last year, Minister Marghem was reviewing the National Energy and Climate Plan (NEKP). In the meantime, it revised that plan and submitted it to the European Commission at the end of last year. The final NEKP aims for unseen biofuel growth of up to 12.2% in the following years. Biofuels are a direct threat to food safety. The IEW calculated that wheat-based bioethanol only led to a decrease of 3% in petrol consumption last year, but that required up to 250,000 tonnes of cereals. That is about 25 kg per person, so about half of the grain needed to produce a year's bread for the whole of Belgium. Almost all advisory bodies and experts agree that the current biofuels policy is counter-productive and even harmful to the climate. Both the Federal Council for Sustainable Development, the Central Council for Industry and the Council for Consumption underline that this type of biofuels can emit more CO2 than traditional fuels and request to avoid the use of food-based biofuels. The Advisory Council on Policy Coherence for Development recommends in an official opinion the Federal Government to ban first-generation biofuels from the National Energy and Climate Plan in order to comply with our international commitments on sustainable development and the fundamental right to food. It is therefore crystal clear to me that the current objectives for biofuels in the NEKP need to be fundamentally revised, but Minister Marghem remains deaf to these opinions for the time being. Minister, you are responsible for development cooperation and you must be responsible for policy coherence in favour of development. Hence my question: what is your position on the use of biofuels? Are you going to urge Minister Marghem to phase out food-based biofuels in line with all the advice? I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u2	The federal contribution to the NEKP was approved by the Council of Ministers on 29 November 2019. You are right to say that the plan falls within the competence of my colleague, Mrs Marghem. It is best placed to explain the measures relating to sustainable biofuels. The NEFP takes into account the European Directives on the use of biofuels and the associated sustainability criteria. For my policy area, it is clear that the potential negative impact of biofuels on food security in producing countries deserves our attention. The growing demand for biofuels has raised food prices, which has a negative impact on food security. The usefulness of certain biofuels in the fight against climate change can also be questioned. That is why Belgian development cooperation chooses not to invest in it. With the 2030 agenda for digital development as a compass, limiting inconsistencies in sustainable development in the various areas of Belgian policy is a continuous task, in which I and my services always contribute.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that you support our question. You are in favour of phasing out biofuels. Will you have a meeting with Minister Marghem to discuss this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u4	I have been clear about what I will do within my domain. The answer relates to Belgian development cooperation. It is not only in those countries where we are active that biofuels are grown. Mrs Marghem knows my point of view. Let me clarify this with her.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u5	Question No 55001340C by Mr Flahaut is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u6	Minister, between 2 and 5 December, seven employees of four Belgian NGOs were detained in Luxembourg and questioned by an investigating judge. These are members of 11.11.11 and its French-speaking counterpart CNCD, FIAN Belgium and SOS Faim Belgium. The interviews framework in the light of the recent report issued by FIAN on Socfin's palm oil activities in Sierra Leone. This shows that Socfin violates a huge number of rights. I would mention a few: the right to sufficient and nutritious food, the right to a healthy environment, the right to decent work, the right to education, women's rights, civil and political rights and so on. Socfin's charge of defamation, insults and violations of privacy smells like applying the SLAPP technique. SLAPP stands for Strategic Lawsuit Against Public Participation and is used to silence NGOs who denounce unfair practices. Socfin is known for this, because it has already used this technique against journalists and NGOs in France, but also against NGOs in Sierra Leone itself. The fact that the Belgian company Hubert Fabri holds more than 50% of the shares and that until recently Socfin's base was still in Belgium makes this a Belgian matter. I have the following questions, Minister. Will the government take a stand and condemn the accusation of Socfin, which aims to silence critical NGOs? In the light of international human rights conventions, Belgium must also monitor the activities of its companies outside the borders of its territory. What measures will you take to call Socfin to account for his human rights violations? Did Belgium invest in Socfin via BIO or other public bodies? If so, will Belgium use them to put pressure on Socfin?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u7	Mrs Daems, as far as your first question is concerned, the executive cannot in principle intervene in legal proceedings, at least if it is in another jurisdiction, in this case Luxembourg. I am confident that the Luxembourg court will assess the merits or unfoundedness of Socfin's accusations in accordance with constitutional standards and human rights. I have instructed my services to follow the dossier closely and to report on it. More generally, the government recognises the problematic nature of the SLAPP technique you cite. Especially in contexts where democratic values and the rule of law are under pressure, this can lead to critical NGOs being silenced. Belgium shows its commitment here. In December last year, Belgian Development Cooperation organised an international conference on the problem of the shrinking space for NGOs. Our country is also working constructively towards a solution at European level and within the OECD Development Assistance Committee. As regards your second question, as a Luxembourg company, a company such as Socfin is a carrier of rights and obligations as defined in Luxembourg law and the European Convention on Human Rights, as well as in international instruments such as the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the ILO Tripartite Declaration and the UN Global Compact. The activities of Socfin in Sierra Leone are also the responsibility of that State. Since Socfin is not a Belgian company and is not financed by Belgian Development Cooperation via BIO, the government cannot take immediate action. Through programme funding of NGOs and respect for NGOs' right of initiative, the government allows watchdog reports such as FIAN's. I would also like to point out that the funding of NGOs and private companies by Belgian Development Cooperation is subject to extensive screening of organisations, including their respect and commitment to human rights. As regards your third question, on the basis of the data from Belgian Development Cooperation, BIO has no investment in Socfin. With regard to other public bodies and their possible investments in Socfin, I cannot give you an answer. It must be public bodies for which I have no authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. This is indeed a dangerous precedent because it concerns the democratic rights of NGOs and their Belgian employees to denounce abuses by multinationals. It is very important that the government does everything in its power to protect them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u9	Madam President, I also had a question about BIO's investment in palm oil, but it has exactly disappeared from the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u10	I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u11	No problem. That'll be for another meeting then.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u12	Mr Minister, at the beginning of 2019, Belgium invested two million extra in the EU Egypt Trust Fund for Africa (EUTF for Africa). The aim of this fund is to set up projects that address the root causes of migration. However, many projects are at the expense of the security and human rights of migrants. For example, in 2017, 65% of Niger's money went to migration management projects in that country that are also implementing Nigerese law against human trafficking. However, this law pushes migrants underground and requires them to take more dangerous routes. EUTF's support to the Libyan Coast Guard also raises serious questions. Two and a half years ago, you replied to an oral question that there was still no adequate monitoring system for projects supporting the Libyan Coast Guard. Hence my questions. How does the monitoring system of the EUTF currently work? What improvements do you think should be made? Will Belgium use its position as a member of the strategic board to argue for better criteria to assess project proposals in order to support projects that effectively contribute to the development of the region?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u13	The monitoring system of the EU Egypt Trust Fund for Africa is active in three areas. Firstly, at the level of the specific projects. Secondly, at the level of three geographical shutters: the Sahel and Lake Chad, North Africa, and the Horn of Africa. Thirdly, at the level of the whole EU of Egypt Trust Fund for Africa itself. At the level of the specific projects, each project has a specific separate budget for monitoring and evaluation by the implementing partners, EU delegations and independent experts. The independent experts study the relevance, efficiency, effectiveness, potential impact and sustainability of each project. Evaluations shall be used to identify lessons and good practice. At the level of the three geographical shutters, it will be examined whether the projects identified by each hatch are properly addressed. Quarter reports monitor progress in the three shutters. At the level of the EUTF itself, collective achievements are measured through the four strategic priorities of the EUTF Result Framework. Each priority is divided into expected results, and each result is measured by a total of 41 common output indicators identified for each project. In addition, an audit was carried out in 2018 by the European Court of Auditors with a number of recommendations that the European Commission has incorporated into its working methods since then. In consultation with a consultative group of Member States, the European Commission is currently working on the finalisation of a medium-term report on the EUTF instrument. A survey was also organised in this context and was sent to different stakeholders. During several operational committees and strategic boards, Belgium argued for a consistent and transparent follow-up to the approved EUTF projects. Belgium regularly stressed the importance of the lessons learned in the formulation of new projects and is pleased that the Commission regularly mentions the lessons learned from previous projects and takes them into account in new project proposals. Moreover, following repeated requests from a number of Member States, including Belgium, the European Commission concluded a contract with a third party, Global Initiative, in July 2019 to ensure the follow-up of EUTF projects carried out in Libya, in particular regarding respect for human rights and the Do No Harm principle. According to the latest information at our disposal, Global Initiative intervention would have started in mid-January 2020 and would include 5 follow-up domains: border management and search and rescue, evacuation, situation in detention centres, evacuations and humanitarian voluntary return and stabilisation of communities. The priority criteria on which projects are selected are defined in accordance with donor countries and African partner countries. The most recent criteria were agreed during the strategic board of April 2018 and were confirmed during the board of June 2019. Such prioritisation allows for the transfer of EUTF funds remaining to priority areas of activity. During the various operational committees and strategic boards, Belgium has argued that EUTF projects contribute effectively and sustainably and inclusively to the development of the countries and regions where they are implemented and will continue to do so. For this purpose, the ownership of African partner countries is essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u14	Madam President, Minister, the idea behind the EU Trust Fund to use development cooperation to tackle migration flows is in itself a good idea. No one flees or moves for their pleasure. Investing in projects that actually jeopardise the security of migrants and increase smuggling of smugglers will do away with that effect. Your colleague De Block is very clear, Belgium cannot accommodate everyone. But then one must be consistent and not exacerbate the reasons for migration through one's own policies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u15	The Chair: Attached Questions Nos. 55002228C by Mr. De Vriendt and 55002279C of Mrs Van Hoof are transformed into written questions, as are Question No 55002280C of Mrs Van Hoof and Question No 55002560C of Mr Lacroix.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u16	Mr President, Minister, on 13 December 2016, during a parliamentary debate preparatory to the adoption of the programme law, you committed yourself to providing 15% of official development assistance (ODA) for agriculture and food security. The motion for a resolution adopted by the House on 20 April 2017 called in its point 3 "the guarantee to allocate 15% of the budget for official development assistance to agriculture and food security". According to figures provided by the Directorate-General for Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid (DGD) and included in the evaluation of the Belgian Food Security Fund (BSF) – which we had the pleasure of hearing two weeks ago – there is a clear downward trend, so that the rate was only 11.46 per cent in 2018. In addition, recommendation 8 of the special evaluation highlights the need to refine the accounting of the specific food security expenditure portion of the agricultural sector budget. Minister, how can this amount be explained below your commitment? What are your recommendations for assessing the specific share of food security in agricultural expenditure? Also on 13 December 2016, you also said that in the event of food insecurity in partner countries, food security interventions could be integrated. Moreover, your 2017 strategic note was entitled "Agriculture and Food Security Strategic Note". In addition, the above-mentioned resolution called for, inter alia, "the integration of the theme of food security and the multi-stakeholder approach within the framework of the integrated policy of Belgian Cooperation and special attention to the needs and challenges of small-scale and/or family-based agriculture as the driving force behind food security". However, the evaluation of the special assessment service notes on many occasions the total lack of attention given by the new Belgian cooperation policy to food safety. I will not mention here the various examples I have pinned. Minister, do you share this finding? Do you intend to respond to recommendation seven of the evaluation, by revising your strategic note to more concretely address the strategies to be developed for food security? More generally, do you intend to place the fight against hunger – and therefore, the SDO2 – at the centre of development policies again?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u17	Colleagues, do not hesitate to breathe when you read your texts; this will make it easier for interpreters to work!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u18	Sometimes the interpreters think I'm reading too fast. But now you are beating me clearly, Madame de Laveleye!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u19	I'm sorry. I was worried about saving time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u20	It's okay. I don't think anyone among us needs instant translation. Madam, Belgium's ODA to agriculture and food security amounted to €261.2 million in 2017, or 13.45 per cent of ODA, and €222.7 million in 2018, or 11.51 per cent of ODA. Data for 2019 are not yet available. As for the Development Cooperation budget managed by the DGD, the amounts amounted to €174.2 million in 2017, or 16% of the expenditure, and €151.1 million in 2018, or 13.9% of the expenditure. The share allocated to agriculture and food security in the development cooperation budget itself is therefore relatively higher than that allocated by other actors. With regard specifically to the projects of the former Belgian Food Security Fund, expenditure amounted to EUR 10.5 million in 2017, EUR 6.2 million in 2018 and EUR 4.5 million in 2019. Payments by the National Lottery amounted to 17 million euros in 2017, 16.9 million euros in 2018 and 2019. Article 39 of the programme law of 25 December 2016 amending article 22 of the law of 19 April 2002 on the rationalisation of the operation and management of the National Lottery provides, in the management contract with the National Lottery, for the payment of a contribution by the National Lottery for the financing of food security interventions in the developing countries. Payments for future years should therefore remain at the same level. The priorities are those set out in the 2017 note. The cross-cutting priority themes that have an impact on food security are nutrition, gender equality and women's empowerment, and sustainable agriculture. Most of the former employees of the Belgian Survival Fund (FBS) service are still assigned to the Directorate-General for Development Cooperation. Their expertise is therefore not lost for Belgian cooperation. They are found in different directions where their knowledge can always be valued. It should also be noted that in Enabel, five experts are responsible for monitoring programmes in the field of agriculture and food security. Relations are always maintained with civil society organisations and multilateral organisations such as the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and the World Food Programme (WFP). We held a bilateral consultation with these organizations in December 2018. We continue the institutional and strategic dialogue with them. Two programmes of the Belgian Food Security Fund are each made up of five projects, and are still under way. The one in Tanzania will end in the course of 2020 and the one in Benin in 2021. If necessary, a few additional months of implementation, without budget increases, could be granted, in order to allow a gradual closure of activities, as has already been granted to programmes in Mali, Burundi and Mozambique. The means for Tanzania have already been made available to the actors concerned. For Benin, the last tranches of subsidies will be paid in 2020. The budget for this purpose is EUR 2.3 million. The evaluation's findings on the basis of the analysis of the portfolios of ongoing government cooperation are very partial, since at the very time of the evaluation, the programmes had not yet started. The four pillars of food security will remain a focus for these programmes. It is clear that the 2017 strategic note is not based on the same theory of change as the 2011 note. The new 2017 Strategic Note for Agriculture and Food Security focuses on supporting sustainable value chains, developed by a market-oriented agricultural entrepreneur. Is this incompatible with the achievement of food security objectives and the fight against hunger? This is the bias of the evaluators, but it is not mine, nor that of the 2017 strategic note. On your second question, a revision of the recent strategy paper is not appropriate especially in a current business period. The current strategy should be able to be implemented over a few years, before being analysed in hindsight. SDO2 is already at the centre of Belgian Development Cooperation. It is at the heart of the 2017 strategic note. I would also like to point out that Belgian cooperation is achieved through many partnerships and that, in addition to government cooperation, food security is also at the heart of the strategies of FAO, the European Union, WFP, the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) and many other civil society organisations, financed by Belgium's official development assistance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u21	Minister, with respect to the revision of the strategic note, I understand that it takes a few years of implementation to be able to assess it. Unless I am mistaken, the evaluation of the D4D strategic note is already in the pipeline, while these two strategic notes are about contemporary. One will be evaluated before the other, when they have the same date. I'm a little concerned about that. As you know, today, one in nine people suffers from hunger and the numbers have been increasing again since 2017. However, the sector's analyses seem to show that Belgium has not really fulfilled its commitments in this area. We dismantled the FBS. We're not going to repeat the debate today. The 15% is obviously not there and you confirm it. Support for sustainable food systems does not seem to be a clear priority. You're talking about bias in the special assessor's report. We are among those who believe that the strategy of Belgian cooperation in the fight against hunger must be carried by your firm, by DGD, by the specialised voluntary sector on this issue, with Enabel. We will be paying attention in the Committee on External Relations to the fact that this work is being done in the coming weeks and months. Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u22	Question No 55002732C by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u23	Minister, universal social protection is enshrined in the standards of the International Labour Organization and is one of the key points in achieving the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Objective 1.3 provides for the need – I quote – to "establish social protection systems and measures for all, adapted to the national context, including social protection floors, and to ensure that, by 2030, a significant proportion of the poor and vulnerable benefit from them". According to the 2017-2019 World Report on Universal Social Protection, 55 per cent of the world's population, or four billion people, does not have any protection and only 29 per cent is covered by social security systems that include the full range of benefits. In 2016, the House adopted a resolution aimed at integrating and anchoring the right to social protection in Belgian development cooperation policy. In addition, meeting in Geneva in February 2019, the members of the global partnership for universal social protection by 2030 signed a call for action calling on all countries to meet their commitments under Agenda 2030. Mr Minister, can you give me an inventory of the efforts made by Belgian Development Cooperation in both bilateral and multilateral aid in this area? What about the paper position that the resolution asked DGD to develop? Does it exist and now serve as a reference framework for Belgium's cooperation strategies? What is Belgium's position on international networks such as the Global Partnership for Universal Social Protection or the Social Protection Inter-Agency Cooperation Board?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u24	Mr Ben Achour, Belgian Development Cooperation has made several national and international commitments to social protection through active participation in the International Labour Organisation, Belgium plays a political role in favour of social protection. The ILO is a partner organization in our long-standing multilateral cooperation. In 2016, Belgian Cooperation concluded a multi-annual cooperation and funding agreement with the ILO for the period 2017-2020. Monitoring the work of ILO management bodies and contacts with ILO support and/or influence ILO policies and actions on social protection. In 2015, I also supported the Global Partnership for Universal Social Protection of the ILO and the World Bank. Belgium, through budgets managed by DGD, makes financial contributions to social protection in various ways. Firstly, multilateral cooperation: Belgian cooperation allocates to the ILO budget a budget of approximately €6 million per year. Belgium is thus the largest contributor to the ILO's general resources since 2012 until 2019. Secondly, non-governmental cooperation: DGD is currently funding a programme entitled "Decent work: job creation, rights at work, social protection and social dialogue (2017-2021)", defined by nine civil society organisations. This joint programme operates in 38 countries for a total amount of EUR 92 million (EUR 18.4 million per year). The three common strategic targets of these ACNG programmes correspond to the four pillars of decent work, one of which is entitled "Strengthening social protection for all and for all". Thirdly, bilateral cooperation: Belgium's expertise has been deployed in particular in setting up health mutuals in several partner countries. In October 2019, a note was developed in cooperation with relevant stakeholders. It suggests ways to ensure that Belgian cooperation as a whole contributes to the design, establishment and strengthening of a social protection system for all in developing countries. This note summarizes the consensus guidelines: its basic principles, its comprehensive and universal approach to social protection and its contribution to gender. The role of the various Belgian development actors is described. Fourthly, the Global Partnership for Universal Social Protection: in 2015, as Minister for Belgian Development Cooperation, I officially launched the Global Partnership for Universal Social Protection of the ILO and the World Bank. Belgium is a founding member of this partnership. Belgian cooperation is largely in line with its principles. Fifth, the Social Protection Inter-Agency Cooperation Board, jointly chaired by ILO and the World Bank, is attended by various international organizations, donor countries and representatives of civil society. Belgium's participation in the SPIAC was ensured by the SPF Social Security.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u25	Mr Minister, thank you for your answers and I invite you to step up your efforts, recalling that this universal social protection is first and foremost a means of distributing wealth but also of combating social dumping. I also recall that the 2019 Nobel Prize in Economics, Esther Duflo, even goes so far as to advocate the introduction of a universal basic income below which no one could fall. It may also be a reflection for the future beyond universal social protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u26	Minister, the CNCD-11.11.11 published on 22 January the report "Occupation and shrinking space" on the reduction of civic space in Israel and Palestine. Palestinian civil society organizations (CSOs) are said to be the first victims of this situation. There are many dangers to them: administrative detentions, physical threats, harassment, restrictions on freedom of movement, expression and assembly. The interest of the study also lies in the fact that Israeli CSOs would also be targeted by the government or nationalist groups. They should be subjected to campaigns of defamation and incitement to hatred, the effects of several laws that reduce freedom of expression and association, as well as attempts to reduce their foreign funding. Last November, it was the Israeli law "to prevent harm to the State of Israel through boycott" – known as Boycott Law – that was used to justify the expulsion of Omar Shakir for example. Mr Minister, in view of the findings of this report and given that the Palestinian territory is a partner country of Belgian Development Cooperation, will some of the recommendations thus made be considered by your administration both in its bilateral and multilateral action? In this context, how can Belgian support for Palestinian and Israeli CSOs be guaranteed? How does Belgium position itself on this subject within the European framework and within the United Nations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u27	Minister, my question is on the same subject. I would add that one of the elements highlighted in this report is that a link is made between the reduction of civic space in Palestine and Israel with a comprehensive campaign in Israel, Europe and the United States that uses two techniques: on the one hand, to assimilate criticisms of gross human rights violations committed by Israel with anti-Semitism and on the other hand, to make unfounded accusations of links with terrorism against Palestinian CSOs. Minister, have you read this report and the recommendations it contains? Does this affect your strategy of supporting Palestinian territory partners? If so, how? How do you intend, in this context, to ensure the sustainability of Belgian support for Palestinian CSOs? Are Palestinian CSOs supported by Belgian official development assistance victims of these disinformation and intimidation campaigns? If so, are you planning to provide legal support to local partner organisations affected by these campaigns?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u28	Dear colleague, the report referred to was drafted by 11.11.11, the umbrella organisation of Flemish NGOs involved in the North-South movement. This dome is subsidized by the federal government, among other things, to carry out political reflection and awareness-raising. The recommendations made in the report will therefore be integrated into the thinking of my administration, both bilaterally and multilaterally. Israeli civil society is very diverse and active, as is Palestinian civil society. Freedom of expression and a vibrant civil society guarantee a democratic and open society. Regrettably, there is increasing pressure on NGOs from the authorities, including legislation. This is a concern shared by the European Union and several of our European partners. Belgium, like other Member States, will therefore continue to support Israeli civil society and Palestinian civil society organisations, including by continuing to fund Belgian NGOs that have established partnerships with these organisations. Our support for Palestinian and Israeli civil society organisations is also expressed through regular dialogue, which we have with them, both in Brussels and in Jerusalem and in Tel Aviv. Moreover, it has been sufficiently demonstrated in recent years, by reliable sources, and by personalities of the European Union or the Member States of the European Union, that the allegations made by NGO Monitor are unfounded and therefore unacceptable. It is therefore not logical to go into these detailed allegations. In addition, if funds were allocated to legal support, they would therefore no longer be available to the beneficiaries themselves. Of course, Belgium defends this position in the Council of the European Union and in the Security Council. In its address to the Security Council in April 2019, during the debate on the situation in the Middle East, Belgium called for the dynamism and plurality of civil society and expressed its concern at hostile actions and policies against it, whether in Israel or Palestine. We reiterated these concerns during the expulsion of Mr. Omar Shakir last November. Together with our European partners, we called on the Israeli Government to reverse its decision to revoke Mr Omar Shakir's work visa and to allow human rights defenders to carry out their legitimate activities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u29	Minister, it is no secret that the regional context is changing in a worrying way. Moreover, we discussed it some ten days ago in plenary. I call on you to step up your vigilance in the field of human rights in the Palestinian territories and in Israel. It may be appropriate to include the preservation of an enabling environment for Israeli civil society organisations (CSOs) as one of the priority objectives of the forthcoming EU Human Rights and Democracy Country Strategy for Israel. Secondly, you could encourage the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to produce regular reports on the reduction of the civic space suffered by CSOs and discuss the conclusions at the sessions of the UN Human Rights Council. This would maintain the pressure and, in any case, continue to beat the iron while it is hot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u30	Minister, Mr. Ben Achour has once again stressed the appalling Palestinian situation. Unfortunately, everything suggests that she's going to get worse. The European Union and Belgium – notably through your firm and DGD – are looking at the phenomenon of shrinking places, which you are following closely. The support strategy of Belgian CSOs will be influenced in many countries and, first and foremost, in Palestine. In any case, I would be very interested in the continuation of the work undertaken in this area by DGD as well as in the advocacy that you could develop internationally on the Palestinian situation. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u31	Mr President, Minister, you will recall that on 25 November, Human Rights Watch (HRW) released a report on BIO's financial support to Feronia. In that document, HRW claimed that Feronia and its subsidiary in the Democratic Republic of the Congo exposed their workers to hazardous pesticides, disposed of industrial waste in watercourses and engaged in abusive employment practices. Furthermore, in April 2019, a CNCD report had already expressed concern about the situation. In addition, similar reports have been published. On December 17, 2019, I was asking you, here, about this. At the time, you highlighted several projects developed on site: new housing, drilling or renovation of wells to provide potable water, or restoration of medical or school facilities. Regarding HRW's revelations, you announced that BIO had asked Feronia to provide a short-term action plan to address the issues raised in the report. An independent audit is also conducted each year. Minister, has Feronia provided this short-term action plan? Has it been transmitted to you? What are the solutions advocated in this plan? What about the company's next annual audit? When will it be published? Have you been able to read the financial audit to be submitted to Feronia at the end of January? If so, what are the conclusions? I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we attended a meeting, some two weeks ago, in which my colleague from the Ecolo Group was participating. On that occasion, we were informed that a financial audit of the viability of its on-site action had been specifically commissioned by the company. That is why I would like to know whether you have read the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 3 February 2020, Feronia presented its Action Plan 2020 at a presentation of its ESG policy in The Hague. This action plan provides for concrete short-term measures to address the findings of the HRW report. According to BIO, it reconciles HRW's recommendations with credit providers. Here I am thinking in particular of the construction – partially completed – of showers and storage rooms for pesticides, and the supply of personal protective equipment. Until everything was in place, Feronia also stopped any use of phytophosphate products. On the other hand, the report was not sent to me personally because of the confidentiality obligations related to the business status of the company, in particular its listing on the stock exchange. PwC has just started work on the accounting closing and the annual audit of Feronia's 2019 financial year. We don't know when it's going to be published. In DRC, this type of work is carried out in a difficult environment to obtain reliable data. In general, the process takes at least six months. This report will not be published publicly because of the reasons mentioned. The financial audit carried out by Deloitte was actually forwarded to Feronia at the end of January. Its content, on the other hand, falls under commercial secrecy. According to the information received by BIO, this audit report does not mention any major financial problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u33	Minister, I take note of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u34	Minister, as you know, in order to be accredited, the ACNGs must have an effective system of control of the organisation, which is commonly referred to as screening. Following the 2016 screening, several CSOs were denied accreditation. Four of them then decided to appeal to the Council of State, which annulled your decision. A new screening procedure was then established, without any real consultation with the sector, it should be stressed. You again refused accreditation of some of them. The Council of State was again seized by some organizations, one of which again won in July 2019. A new screening exercise is planned for this year 2020. My questions are as follows. Can you tell us how you have taken into account all the comments made by the Council of State in the new screening methodology to be applied this year? In order to ensure a screening procedure in accordance with the rules in force and to avoid, in particular, new procedures in the Council of State? Can you explain to us the methodology that will be used to examine all areas of management capacity of the organizations and whether, in accordance with the request for transparency required by the Council of State, these elements have been passed on to the organisations concerned? Finally, can you provide us with a list of organizations that submitted a file to your firm on December 31, 2019? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u35	As far as your first question is concerned, the original methodology will be updated in spring 2020, taking due account of all judgments deemed admissible by the Council of State. To this end, the Administration is working closely with the Legal Service to ensure that these adjustments are in full compliance with legislation and regulations and to avoid future recourse to the Council of State. As far as your second question is concerned, the appropriate methodology is not yet available. The administration will adjust the original methodology during the spring of 2020 according to all the comments made by the Council of State. In accordance with the transparency requirement, this adapted methodology will then be communicated to the sector before the start of the new screening cycle. With regard to your third question, seven organisations have introduced a file, but I cannot provide their data unless the organisations themselves give their explicit permission.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u36	Minister, thank you very much for this information. As a reminder, screening is not a contest and we hope that this process will be serene and will not necessarily seek to filter and reduce the number of ACNGs present. I must not, of course, remind you of the binding aspect of this exercise. I personally lived it in 2016 and I see exactly what it's about. It is somewhat damaging to note that certain obligations go beyond regulation. We can indeed hope that the 2020 process will at least be as transparent as possible. This transparency is precisely one of the criteria for analysing the management system, one of the effective criteria for controlling the organisation. We hope that this will be the case in the dialogue with you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u37	The purpose of screening is to ensure that the organizations we fund – even if they are non-governmental organisations, they are financially dependent on the government – have the management capacity to manage public money. We must not lose sight of the fact that this is public money. Therefore, it is normal for them to demonstrate sufficient management capacity. According to the overall conclusion of the previous screening, they are, on average, quite good. Indeed, out of about 100 organisations screened, 80 of them were considered fit to manage. The aim is to avoid funding too many organizations, with the result that funding is too small for some of them, since we are working with a closed envelope. Comparison with other countries tells us that we are financing many organizations in total. It is not necessarily unhealthy to work with many parties, as long as they cooperate. That is why we have encouraged many countries to provide a common analysis and try to find complementarities in how to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u38	Minister, thank you for highlighting the good management of the ACNG and the richness and diversity that it represents for civil society. Belgium can be proud of this. That is why it is not necessary for managerial exercises to dry up the diversity of the visions of development, which constitute a great wealth for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic105x.u39	Questions Nos 55003226C and 55003226C Ben Achour and Mr Cogolati's No. 55003241C are transformed into written questions.
