ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u1	Questions Nos. 55001831C by Ms. Yoleen Van Camp and 55001842C by Mr. Patrick Prévot are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u2	Minister, as you know, the General Union of Nurses of Belgium (UGIB) brings together 43 professional organisations from the three regions of the country. It covers all aspects of nursing training and practice and represents 140,000 professionals active in our country. Its role is therefore essential for the profession. It is up to us that the UGIB is currently in total uncertainty as to its operation for this year. The subsidy has not yet been paid. The UGIB is therefore facing funding problems. She sent you a letter, but at the time of writing, she had always received no answer. Minister, I was in contact with the UGIB a few hours ago. She confirms that INAMI has certified her that there would be funding for 2020. Can you confirm that? How much will it cost? Will the UGIB have to wait until a government is formed to achieve the realization of these means necessary for the proper functioning, knowing that this has consequences for the salaries of those currently engaged and therefore for the proper functioning of the institution, on the motivation and on the means available? On the other hand, this situation creates doubt.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u3	Mr Rigot, the Council of Ministers set the health care budget for 2020, on 22 November 2019, on a proposal from the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health. Funding for the General Union of Nurses of Belgium (UGIB) for the year 2020 is provided for in this budget. The amount is based on the amount granted in 2019, plus the usual indexation. The Health Care Service will present, in the coming weeks, a draft royal decree for the approval of the Insurance Committee to fix the financing of the General Union of Nurses of Belgium for 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u4	It is more than time for this order to take effect since we are already in February. Every day lost without funding can have consequences for the UGIB. Two years ago, she was forced to anticipate by advancing the funding pending the necessary funding. That's a problem. I do not understand the delay from the moment we know that we must reproduce a measure in continuity. Funds must arrive each year at the same time, whether current or not. I also regret that we have moved from multi-annual funds to annual funds. A few years ago, they were spanning four years, then we went to two years and now we operate on an annual basis. It is really essential to be able to give a clear signal to this institution and to give it the opportunity to work on a long-term basis for the benefit of all nurses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u5	Madam Minister, our system of health care is highly regarded, but we still have to make a painful observation, which was confirmed by a study by the European Commission and the OECD: the health gap between rich and poor in Belgium is among the largest in Europe. I have already said that Belgian health care is generally good. We have a high life expectancy. But the lowest educated men and women are expected to live five years shorter than the most educated. The explanation for this can be found inter alia in the exposure to so-called risk factors. This also has to do with accessibility to care. Although almost every Belgian, luckily but, is covered by compulsory health insurance, people in the lowest income quintile, the 20% with the lowest incomes, are much more likely not to go to a doctor because of the cost, distance or waiting times. But mostly because of the cost. In 2017, this was the case for around 7% of that income group, compared with only 0.1 % of Belgians in the highest income quintile. The difference in unmet medical needs between the poorest and the richest compatriots in Belgium is the greatest of all Western European countries. It is also well above the European average. This is true for health care in general, but for dental care the difference is much greater: 11 percent of Belgians from the lowest income groups had an unmet need for dental care in 2017, compared to 0.4% from the highest income. I am now addressing you specifically with regard to dental care: 11% of the lowest income groups compared with 0.4% of the high income, which is unworthy of a welfare state. You know as well as I do that more and more dentists are not in touch and that there has been a need for a long time to make dental care more financially accessible. That need is widely recognised, including by you. How do you view this need for more accessible dental care, and how do you deal with it in your policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u6	Mr Bertels, access to affordable quality-driven healthcare is indeed an important and essential task for the government. The right to health protection and medical assistance in the event of illness is a fundamental right of every citizen. As you know, in the previous legislature, we have taken various measures aimed at ensuring quality, affordable and accessible health care for all citizens of this country, adapted to the evolving needs of the patient, think of chronic and older patients, and this is in keeping with the principles of free choice of the patient and of diagnostic and therapeutic freedom of the provider. Belgian healthcare is not free, but the patient's contribution is low. In the case of a serious condition, an expensive intervention or treatment is almost entirely reimbursed. These are special benefits in kind in the nomenclature. I have made efforts both in terms of financial accessibility and in terms of the availability of qualified staff, waiting times and geographical accessibility of quality care. For socio-economically weak patients, all social safety nets were maintained and even improved. Think of the preferred arrangement. Facilitating the third party payment scheme and the computerisation of invoicing is also an important step forward. Nevertheless, I read in the press all sorts of figures about a lack of access to care in Belgium, making an amalgamation of costs. Is it about too high personal stock for care? Is it about supplements? Is it about cost for vitamins? Or rather about the too low wages or high other bills for example electricity or rent? In the performance report of the Belgian health system, the KCE-report 313, we see the following important findings. Accessibility is guaranteed by universal health insurance, the existence of social safety nets, the maximum invoicing, an increased allowance and the preferential scheme. The patient's own expenses have fallen. This amounts to 16%. This is below the average compared to other European Member States. In 2004 this was 18.2% and in 2013 17.5%. This is also below the average compared to other European countries, where this is 17.7%. The patient's own health payment has fallen to 15.9 % in 2016. You'll find it in Health at a Glance. There is also some concern. The proportion of families with deferred healthcare for financial reasons is 2.2 %, which is higher than in other European countries. Almost the entire population is covered by compulsory general health insurance. Approximately 1 % is not insured. These are persons whose administrative and or financial conditions are not met. If we look at the Brussels Region, it is around 2%. This delay in health care for financial reasons, particularly among low-skilled citizens and therefore a low socio-economic profile, must indeed be given special attention. This attention should come not only from the health minister, but from all the ministers and governments in this country. A health gap between rich and poor is solved not only by the reimbursement of medical care, but above all by an improvement in training and employment, through affordable living and so on. There are indeed a number of specific problems relating to access to dental care. The nomenclature of dentistry is complex and there are many different rates. This does not always make it clear to the public what concerns will be given and what this will cost him or her. In addition, there is the fear of the dental visit and the uncertainty about the cost of the care. Health objectives have been agreed in the Dentomut agreement 2017-2018, including improving the number of dental visits, especially for preventive dental care. As you know, this preventive dental care is also free for children up to the age of 18 years. Despite these measures, part of the population continues to postpone dental care and not enough children go to the dentist. The Dentomut has not yet managed to find measures to solve this problem. Granting more budget to the sector is not the miracle formula. The dental care sector does not fully use the partial objective given. There is therefore room for an increase in dental visits, especially as regards preventive and basic care. When we installed the oral care process, we saw a temporary increase in the dental visit. Unfortunately, this is not actually the case for children and there are great regional differences.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u7	Mr President, Minister, I am pleased that you yourself say that financially accessible and qualitative health care is a fundamental right. In this respect, you will find an absolute supporter in us. With regard to the financial accessibility of health care and the third-party payment scheme, you rightly pointed out that there are still gaps in this. I assume you still want to do some work on that. You indicated that there was a delay in some of the population, for financial reasons. We have to deal with that. Ghent University has carried out several studies on this subject. This will enable us to learn how to avoid or at least reduce this delay. I agree with you that there is an important task for you, but that Health should also be applied in All Policies. However, we must continue to pay attention to it in health insurance. Thirdly, with regard to dental care, we still have a hard and long way to go. It is a pity that we are not able to improve financial accessibility. There is a Dentomut agreement, but the initiatives contained in the proposal of the Insurance Committee, which was not approved by the Minister, contain a few more possibilities. We will have to continue to work on improving access to dental care in general, especially for children. For teeth it usually starts with the children and there are now large gaps.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u8	As you know, it was World AIDS Day on 1 December 2019 and there will be another one on 1 December 2020. We now have a few questions about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u9	Madam Minister, in 2018 the number of HIV diagnoses decreased by 2% compared to 2017. That is, of course, positive, but by no means a reason for euphoria. The number of diagnoses remains high and seems to extend to groups other than those traditionally affected. Sensoa therefore advocates a new HIV plan 2020-2025. The previous plan ended at the end of 2019. According to Sensoa, combination prevention is the key. This includes sensitisation of condom use and PrEP, encouraging rapid post-risk test and immediate treatment in case of positive diagnosis. In concrete terms, this would mean investing in prevention, including an accessible and accessible STD and HIV testing policy. Other issues include investing in quality and multidisciplinary HIV care, combating HIV-related discrimination and removing barriers that hinder access to PrEP. I am thinking of costs and waiting times. Madam Secretary, is there already a new HIV plan in the docks? Have you carried out any preparatory work to this end, despite the expiry of the term of office? What has happened to that? Has there been any consultation with Sensoa? Did you get any results from that? Will the recommendations of Sensoa be taken into account in a possible new plan? In view of the accession of a new government, how do you see the transition going?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u10	Madam Minister, my question is on the same subject and in particular on the HIV patients themselves. Sensoa's note made it clear that there are problems with the follow-up of HIV patients. The survey shows that one in five of the long-term diagnosed patients develops depression. These patients also feel that they do not receive sufficient psychological assistance. The most surprising finding for me is that patients indicate that they are being discriminated against by the care providers. That's definitely a working point. Madam Secretary, are you aware of these findings? Every day more than two patients hear the verdict that they are seropositive. Can you guarantee sufficient psychological guidance in the publication and experience of that diagnosis? The prevalence of depression in long-term seropositive singles is 1 in 5, quite a high number. Are guidelines drawn up specifically to draw attention to this finding and do you think that there is sufficient psychological guidance for those patients? It is unacceptable that seropositive patients should be discriminated against. Do you have any reports of that? Have you provided a plan of action on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u11	Mr President, Mrs Jiroflée and Mrs Depooster, as you know, we have implemented the HIV plan and incorporated it into the health policy of the federal and regional authorities over the last five years. In recent years, the HIV plan has served as a guide to a number of important achievements. The measures implemented are also of a structural nature. Indeed, a draft new HIV plan to cover the period 2020-2025, taking into account recent developments in the HIV domain, has been under way for several months now. This will be rebuilt around the pillars of prevention, screening and diagnosis, care and quality of life. The positive Council we have set up makes a transversal contribution to these pillars. The working groups attached to the different pillars have identified a number of priorities and actions. In a first phase, they were submitted to and tested by the field organisations and other stakeholders. In a subsequent phase, the proposed priorities and actions, in particular those relating to prevention and screening, will be discussed with the regional authorities. Finally, UNAIDS Liaison Office Brussels will also be consulted, in particular with a view to harmonising the proposed priorities with international health objectives. Preparations for the new HIV plan are coordinated by the HIV monitoring committee. That committee, in accordance with Action 54 of the current HIV plan established by the Interministerial Health Conference of 24 February 2014, is a permanent structure for consultation, monitoring and advice. The members of the Monitoring Committee represent the diversity of actors in the HIV domain. Sensoa is also part of that monitoring committee. Combination prevention is the conceptual guide to the current and the new HIV plan. As soon as that plan is complete, I will receive it. Mrs Depoorter, in the previous legislature, we have focused on the legalisation of the medicalized test and on the self-test, on the pre-exposure prophylaxis, better known as PrEP, on abolishing the thresholds for access to HIV inhibitors, i.e. we are paying back seropositive patients immediately, and, of course, on psychological guidance in the context of the reform of the convention on HIV reference centres. Each of those 11 centres should have clinical psychologists recognised under the law of 10 July 2016. They are responsible for guidance, regardless of whether it concerns people who opt for PrEP, who have just been diagnosed or who have been diagnosed with long-term survivors. The centres concerned will be evaluated on the results achieved. In order to combat HIV stigma, the convening centres referred to in Article 4 (2) of the Convention have undertaken that the HIV reference centre will also provide assistance in the fight against any stigmatisation and discrimination related to the disease and that it will support patients in this sense. We have achieved good results through the implementation of all UNAIDS recommendations. The positive Council played a major role in this. There is now an optimal consultation between all associations on the ground, including Sensoa. I think it worked well in the previous legislature. The results are already good, but every new patient is too many. There are fewer and fewer new infected patients, but every infected patient is one too many. If this plan continues in the next five years, I think we will be on the right track.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u12	Madam Minister, I hear you say the words 'permanent' and'structural' about the monitoring committee. I assume that this is a structural and permanent consultation that continues over legislative hours. If you could confirm that again, that would be very kind. I am somewhat reassured by your words, but we are mainly concerned about the noticeable expansions to groups other than the traditional groups in society, which we all know. Indeed, HIV-related discrimination is a concern that we are concerned about. We will follow the dossier further and thank you for the state of play you have given us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u13	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is indeed a good thing that results have been achieved and that progress has been made on this issue, especially with regard to the PrEP approach. We see a sharp increase in accessibility. In your answer on psychological guidance, you note that good results have already been achieved. I would continue to follow them very closely, because it is a problem which is said to be still there. With regard to the conflicted centres and the possible discrimination against healthcare providers, I am convinced that everything is in order in those convening centres. An HIV patient should also be able to go to the general practitioner for a cough and be received by that general practitioner in the same way as another patient. There is still work to be done in this area. Finally, HIV has become a chronic disease, while in the 1980s it meant someone's death sentence. Today, people with HIV live on a fairly normal basis. They are well cared for. I'm worried about those depressions, though. "Chronic" means for a long time. If these depressions are not treated correctly, we can expect another problem. I invite you to work out and evaluate this aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u14	Mr President, Mrs Jiroflée, I would like to answer your supplementary question. Structural also means simply in terms of the way in which we work, with the positive Council, which will indeed continue to exist. Linking back to all those involved in the field will also continue. That's all documented. For example, we have also made funding for sex workers structural. In the past, this funding was committed from year to year and every two years thereafter. That always posed a problem. We have made a great deal of efforts in this area. As far as the reference centres are concerned, we are sticking to them because they have the necessary expertise and psychological guidance. Mrs. Depooster, I've also known HIV-positive people in my practice. I have to tell you that they're all still alive, even though I've stopped for a long time. However, some people who came to me first asked if I was actually willing to treat an HIV-positive patient. Then each time it had to be searched for a dentist or a physicist who was willing to treat them. Those people know from stories of their circle of acquaintances that they are sometimes refused as patients. That's something that really can't be done at all. Of course, they are very careful to ask if they can become patients somewhere. So one must give them some self-confidence and find out which treatment providers are open to it. However, this discrimination is still experienced in the field. Not everyone is lucky enough to get to someone immediately where they are welcome. That is, of course, unacceptable. The fact that they are chronic patients also weighs heavily because the medication for the common age disorders that everyone is dealing with often interferes with their other medications. Even if they have to undergo an intervention, that is a lot of hassle, especially because one has to take account of their reduced immunity. These people are really chronically ill, even though it is not always visible. Due to their long life expectancy, this problem often interferes with other diseases and ailments. That's something new we didn't see before. When I was in college, the life expectancy of HIV-positive patients was very low. So this problem was less dealt with. Now one must be alert to their particular vulnerability.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u15	Mrs Gijbels, the limitations on activities by beauty specialists are motivated by concerns about quality and safety, both for the citizen and for the beauty specialists themselves. People's confidence in beauty salons presupposes that everyone knows and respects their limits. Beauty specialists must respect both the legal provisions and the due diligence criterion for any liability. Certain techniques seem easy to apply, but are sometimes dangerous because of risk factors in the patient. Indeed, more medical knowledge and therefore possibly a doctor is needed to identify, assess and deal with certain complications in good time. In other countries it has been demonstrated which dramas can lead to certain aesthetic interventions and applications of techniques. Our country therefore has restrictive legislation, mainly based on security considerations. I will give you several articles that show where we take the protection of physical integrity into account in our legislation. Non-doctors must also always take account of these extremely important articles, in addition to their possible civil liability. There is also a law regulating the qualifications required to carry out interventions of non-healing aesthetic medicine and aesthetic surgery and to regulate advertising and information relating to such interventions. Let me give you the example of laser treatments. Epilation techniques are excluded from the application of that law, but invasive techniques, such as laser type 3 or 4, will not be carried out by beauty specialists. We also have recommendations from the High Health Council, which states that laser and IPL devices to remove tattoos, reach the dye in the depths of the dermis and can cause serious damage, such as burns, permanent pigment disorders, scars and eye damage. The Supreme Council of Doctors-Specialists and GPs referred to earlier opinions of the Royal Academy of Medicine, in which IPL and laser treatments are considered medical interventions. The evolution of beauty techniques and equipment is moving very fast, creating new risks, while certain interventions can now be considered safer. For example, as regards peeling, a distinction must be made between superficial and deep peeling. Treatments with IPL, i.e. intense pulsed light, or with led are also characterized by a different intensity and are thus accompanied by a completely different type of risk profile. This should be followed up by experts who can act in an advisory capacity, where certain regulatory adaptations or facilitations are identified or possible. In October 2019 the Hoge Raad of doctors-specialists and general practitioners decided to set up an expert group to follow up on the subject. It may be considered whether or not that initiative may be complementary or an alternative to the Council for Medical Aesthetics, which is to be established, as announced in Article 23 of the Aesthetic Medicine Act. We must therefore ensure that our legislation is compatible with the new techniques used in beauty treatments by beauty specialists, where the name is sometimes somewhat misleading.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u16	Is there any way to get an overview?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u17	I have given my answer in two minutes to answer more questions, but I will provide you with the data. We'll forward that. The answer is more extensive, but I have resumed it a little to allow more colleagues to ask questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u18	If colleagues then also make an effort to stay within the two-minute speaking time, things are progressing well.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u19	Mr Patrick Prévot is retained in his commune of Soignies and asks for the postponement of his questions on our agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u20	Mr.President, Madam Minister, in 2016, you refused to recognize psychomotorism as a paramedical profession. Today I am again called upon by the Belgian Professional Union of Francophone Psychomotricians (UPBPF), which underlines the importance of their mission. It points to being denied as a professional organisation. The profession exists formally in various sectors, including neuropaediatry, which sends patients back to psychomotorists. They therefore do not understand that the realities of the French-speaking terrain are not taken into consideration. Minister, why did you refuse to recognize this profession? In fact, it is very complementary to other interventions on the ground and brings real added value to the multidisciplinary vision. This profession also exists as such in France and Luxembourg, our close neighbours, with whom we share the profile of a paramedical profession. Moreover, it appears that such care, if implemented early, is less expensive than long-term therapies and would contribute to the realization of savings in curative care (health care, specialized schools, institutions, etc.).). Minister, what do you think? In your opinion, could this recognition be reassessed in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u21	Mr President, Mr Rigot, I have always taken into account the repeated opinions of the Federal Council of Paramedical Professions. This has given me two opinions and I have always taken the position not to recognize psychomotricians as a new profession of health care, since these opinions were really negative. The first opinion concerning the inclusion of psychomotorism in the list of paramedical professions was negative and had been forwarded to my predecessor, Mrs Onkelinx. This is Opinion No 3 of 2013. Subsequently, a request for further opinion was sent to the Council and, on 22 September 2016, the second opinion was also ratified by the Federal Council for Paramedical Professions. This is Opinion No 1 of 2016. This was again a negative opinion on the recognition of psychomotorism as a new profession of care. The Board notes that psychomotorism is an integral part of the professional skills of logopedes, occupational therapists, orthoptists and physiotherapists. Psychomotority interventions that are currently being performed as part of therapies are part of the health care exercise. In Belgium, in the absence of legal recognition as health professionals under the Act of 10 May 2015 relating to the exercise of health professions, it is prohibited to carry out acts falling within the scope of the art of healing. However, this does not prevent psychomotricians from exercising their profession in Belgium, as long as they do not exercise the art of healing or acts reserved for a health care profession. The non-therapeutic practice of psychomotorism to improve the psycho-educational development of healthy people, thus not subject to medical prescription, is not regulated by the Federal Public Health Authority and can be exercised by a psychomotrician without being a health professional. Yes, in some countries, such as France, the choice has been made to bring together all psychomotor skills to make them a full-fledged discipline and to entrust it to a professional who can act both for therapeutic and development or well-being objectives, almost always on medical prescription. In other countries, such as Belgium, it has been decided to integrate these techniques into the training and benefits allowed to certain health professionals - as regards the therapeutic component subject to medical prescription - and to leave the choice of regulating the non-therapeutic component to an authority other than that of Health and, therefore, not to subject it to medical prescription. Examining the potential needs of new care professions and creating them if necessary is a federal jurisdiction. I am of the opinion that there is no need to create a new health profession in this area. Currently, the application of psychomotor skills to improve a patient's health is subject to medical prescription and is legally reserved for physiotherapists and possibly occupational therapists, orthoptists or logopedes. There is no demonstrated interest in public health to recognize and add an umpteenth health professional to apply these techniques to patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u22	Madam Minister, I must say that I am baffled by your answer when you mention the fact that there is no interest! There is at least one that is evidenced by a number of services that direct children especially to psychomotorists: the interest of the patient. You state that this does not prevent practice. That's for sure! But this prevents access to some, if only at the financial level. This can also lead to the impossibility of benefiting from the benefits. It's a risk of loss of service too. It must not be denied, Madam Minister, that psychomotorism plays an essential role in understanding and working on psychological and emotional suffering. Psychomotority, in my view, is more important than ever in services such as childhood, disability and mental health. To recognize it, even if for you it does not fundamentally change things, in our view it is motivating and perhaps also simply thanking.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u23	Joined Questions No 55001968C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin, No 55001973C by Mr Patrick Prévot and No 55001988C by Mr Eric Thiébaut are postponed, since none of them are present.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u24	Mr President, if none of the three members concerned are present on this question, it becomes moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u25	Mr. Prévot had requested that his own be postponed. The Regulations state that a member has the right to defer his or her question once.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u26	Yes, I know! But if the subject is of such importance that three questions are asked, then it is necessary to be here. They're always the same...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u27	I will not comment on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u28	That is not the case with Mrs. Fonck, since she is still present.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u29	Quite often, let's say.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u30	Quite often, yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u31	Thank you for the good newsletter, Minister, that's what it is! Sometimes I have to split up to go to another commission. You will see, Madam Minister, that this is going to happen again quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u32	Mrs Fonck, in answer to your question, I can inform you of the following. As you can see, the coordinated law of May 10, 2015, referred to above, allows for the prescription of physiotherapy sessions in electronic form or by telefax, which is therefore regular in the light of public health requirements. However, the regulations on compulsory health care insurance provide that the prescription of such care must be attached to the certificate of care provided when the latter is passed on to the insurer. This is a condition of reimbursement under compulsory health care insurance. Invoicing for this category of health care providers is still in paper form, and the prescription accompanying the invoice must also take this form. The print on paper of an email has a simple copy value – not original – and therefore cannot be used in this context. Reimbursement requirements are therefore more stringent than those relating to public health. As you know, the electronic prescription of medicines has been mandatory, in the strict sense of the term, since 1 January last. This component of the 2013-2018 e-Health Action Plan has been largely accomplished. An Action Plan 2019-2021 adds a goal, namely the extension of the system to non-medical requirements. In this case, this is also the case for physiotherapists and logopeds. The work required to achieve this objective is currently being carried out in the presence of all relevant actors. A sector-by-sector deployment schedule should be proposed later this year, which will align the reimbursement requirements with those for public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u33	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, if we want to move forward on e-health, we need to align and facilitate administrative procedures for physiotherapists but also, as you said, for logopeds. I therefore look forward to this evaluation work, bearing in mind that I am already advocating for taking into account the small concerns arising from electronic prescriptions for medicinal products, which still exist today. I hope that the transitional provision by INAMI will make it possible to settle matters. I hope, in any case, that before the end of 2020 an adjustment can be made in order to reduce administrative procedures, which would be favourable to physiotherapists, mutuals and patients, provided, of course, that this does not lead to situations of fraud. But it is true that beacons can be set up to avoid this kind of drift.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u34	Madam Minister, the draft law on the granting of a lump sum to persons suffering from congenital malformations resulting from the taking of medicines containing thalidomide by the mother during pregnancy was adopted in the Chamber on 25 April 2019 and submitted to the King for ratification. Thus, the law was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 16 May 2019. How are the victims informed of this law? Do you know how many victims there are in our country? How many victims have already applied? How many relatives of deceased victims have already applied? How many applications were declared positive? How many were declared negative and what was the reason for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u35	Mrs Sneppe, the information has been distributed mainly by the various victim associations, with which we had close contacts. Most sickness funds have also published information on the reimbursement procedure, both through their papers and through their electronic means of communication. Given its specific role in the processing of applications, the Auxiliary Cash for Sickness and Invalidity Insurance on its website has provided a separate space for the treatment of this theme. This institution also mainly sent a personal letter by electronic means to persons who had previously made themselves known via different channels. It was about 40 people. There has been no official census of the number of deaths, but on the basis of the available information, their number was estimated at 35 to 40 persons. 98 files have been filed. More information was requested for five files. Eleven parents or survivors of deceased victims submitted an application because they also claimed compensation. Thirty-two victims' files and three survivors' files have already been declared positive. There have been 69 refusals, 61 refusals for people who wrongly thought they were victims and 8 refusals from next of kin. The reason for the refusal is that the applicants presented a clinical picture that does not correspond to that of a victim of thalidomide as shown in the literature.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u36	Madam Minister, do you expect further requests to be made or do you think that this dossier has already been closed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u37	It's hard to say. We know that there were also victims who did not apply because they were not members of the associations concerned or simply did not want to do so. It's about older people. The exposure to thalidomide took place around 1958, early 1960s. Some say they don't need it anymore. If there are any more casualties, the Auxiliary Cash Office will handle their file.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u38	Madam Secretary, Bilzen in Limburg discovered at the end of October a drug lab intended to produce the dangerous drug crystal meth. This would be the third time that such a lab has been found in Belgium. Mid-March of this year a lab was discovered in Hasselt and early June in Wuustwezel. The chemical drug is extremely harmful to health and highly addictive. Also, such a drug lab is a very high security risk for the neighborhood in which it is located because of the explosion risk. Madam Secretary, are the drug labs on the rise for crystal meth? Is active work being done on tracking such drug labs? At the moment, the counter is on three labs. Have any more drug labs been discovered? Have any fatalities been caused by the intake of crystal meth? What is your plan of action to combat this very dangerous drug? Will the government launch a awareness campaign?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u39	Mrs Samyn, for your questions on the number of drug labs and their detection, I would refer you to the Ministers of the Interior and Justice. The general mortality register does not allow a distinction to be made between the substances underlying the reported deaths. By alternative reporting methods such as the Early Warning System on Drugs, there are so far no reported deaths related to the use of methamphetamine or crystal meth in Belgium. Based on the results of the most recent national health survey, but also on the analysis of the wastewater, the use of methamphetamine is still a rare phenomenon in Belgium. As you know, in the waste water, we find mainly cocaine derivatives. Also for the treatment applications in Belgium through the Treatment Demand Indicator, the figures remain very low. In 2018, methamphetamine was reported for 0.53 % of treatment episodes. In only 0.13 % of cases, crystal meth was identified as the main problematic substance. In 2015, that was 0.05%. Prevention and awareness campaigns are, of course, still appropriate and are the competence of the Communities and the Regions. We are also trying with the former Health Institute to warn at parties, after the exams, at music festivals and to be aware of the latest drugs that are being distributed there. I believe this will remain an eternal battle.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u40	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply. Sensitisation is indeed very important. Crystal meth is not only highly addictive but it causes, like many drugs, serious health problems including memory loss, aggressiveness and psychotic behavior. There is also a high risk of severe heart and brain damage. In any case, I hope that every effort will be made to combat the potential advance of this drug.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u41	Question No 55002022C by Mrs Florence Reuter becomes moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u42	Mrs Fonck, in the framework of the consultation model on the day-care posts of general practitioners, several bodies are active, in particular the inter-administrative "guard" cell and the support platform for the day-care posts of general practitioners. The Inter-Administrative Unit is a partnership with the Public Health FPS, the INAMI, the Strategic Unit, the "guard" coordinators and the 1733. This inter-administrative unit defines the strategic guidelines and ensures that they are fully developed. The mission of the support platform for the guard posts of the general practitioners is to accompany the implementation of the concept notes on the guards and the 1733 presented in the framework of the task force of 2 February 2018. As far as the main stakeholders are concerned, the support platform for guard stations is made up of three representatives of the medical doctor generalist's bench, three representatives of the National Emergency Medical Relief Council and three representatives of mutualities. The two administrations concerned (SPF and INAMI) also participate in the platform as well as the "guard" coordinators and the coordinators 1733. The strategic unit also takes part and general practitioners are therefore regularly heard in the context of the reform of childcare services. We have taken note of the remarks made by some general practitioners and we take them into account in the operationalization of the reform. It is important that the patient occupy a central position in this file. The purpose of the permanence system for general practitioners is to ensure that patients can consult a general practitioner whenever necessary at any time. The Quality Act establishes that general practitioners must organize these permanences by means of an agreement for the functional cooperation of approved general practitioners. In this way, we want to ensure that no patient is excluded. We are working on a uniform and clear system of general medical care posts and on cooperation agreements between general practitioners' duty stations. Thus, patients always know where to go and no longer have to look for which general practitioner is on duty and where to practice. This unique organizational model has important advantages for the general practitioners themselves. They'll have to do fewer night guards. It's better for work-life balance. They can count, during the guard, on a driver per network. The administration is grouped. In addition to a single organizational model, we also have harmonized and transparent funding. Until recently, child care funding was very complex, but with the new clear funding rules, each child care position receives the necessary financial security. The Royal Decree will enter into force at the same time as the Law on the Quality of Practice of Health Care, i.e. 1 July 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u43	Minister, at the beginning, you told me a lot of things. What interests me is to know the status of the discussions with regard to the draft royal decree. As you know, general practitioners have responded in a cross-cutting manner. Article 23 of the law passed at the time provided, in effect, for the freedom of functional cooperation with the aim of organizing medical permanence. In fact, your draft royal decree obliges us to be part of the system of cooperation of the guard stations, even though there are now well-functioning devices, which have been set up by the circles and where the patient is truly at the heart of the process. Your device, your draft royal decree also obliges to found an additional asbl for cooperation, even if there was already an asbl for the guard post. In fact, the costs are doubled, rather than focusing this budget on the patient. You say there's a better balance with privacy. At the same time, while circles functioned very well in daycare positions, distances will be much greater. What you may win on one side, you lose on the other. Beyond the elements of substance I have just mentioned, please keep the door open to consult the general practitioners on this draft royal decree. I think it can evolve to allow more freedom on the organisation while maintaining the course and objectives of public health organisation for patients. Let me insist, for the general practitioners as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u44	The fifteenth report of the Federal Mediation Service "Patient's Rights" observed a 13.7% increase in complaints from 2017 to 2018. The practitioners who received the most attention were dentists, at 45%. This can range from poor performance of technical care, lack of information on the cost of care to inappropriate behaviour or a problem with access to a copy of the file. One of the seven priority recommendations of the report is the urgent establishment of a dental complaint management body. This initiative is also supported by the French-speaking Belgian Dental Association, which states this in its 2019 memorandum. On Monday, December 9, 2019, at the annual presentation of the activity report, the need for compliance was an important focus. The question arose of the lack of sanctions applied when legislation was not complied with. Created since 1945 in France, the National Order of Dental Surgeons (ONCD) represents the profession with the public authorities. As such, it may be seized of general problems and of any project concerning the profession. In concrete terms, this French body does not find contact with us, which poses a serious problem, particularly in the context of the mobility of practitioners. Some dentists disqualified from the order in France Some dentists disqualified from the order in France come to practice in Belgium for example, and we do not have any authority to relay information, which allows them to practice without problems in our country. Minister, what is your reaction to this increase in complaints? Are you considering remedying the lack of supervision of the dental profession by a regulatory body, in order to integrate mediation, monitoring and sanctioning tasks? What about an independent ethics body that could deal with complaints in the field of health care in a cross-cutting manner? How is the arrival of foreign practitioners in the context of European mobility monitored in order to ensure the protection of public health?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u45	Mr President, Minister, it is well known that the annual reports of the federal ombudsmen's "patient rights" point again every year to a proportionately significant number of patients' complaints about dentists. The 2018 Annual Report confirms this situation. After all, the complaints about dentistry that came in in 2018 represent almost 45% of the total number of complaints from patients at the service. As has been pointed out on several occasions, this situation can be partly explained by the limited number of dental complaint treatment authorities. In this sense, the federal ombudsmen's "patient rights" have been recommending for 15 years the establishment of an order of dentists, a body which contributes to ensuring respect for the patient, which has a transparent effect and which aims to provide preventive guidance on the attitudes and practices of professionals. Madam Secretary, how do you feel about the idea of establishing an order of dentists? If the federal ombudsmen have been recommending this for 15 years, why hasn't this been done? Do you have any idea what the dentists think of that? Have you ever sat with the dentists' associations on this matter? If so, what was the result? Of the complaints that enter the federal ombud service, 45% are about dentistry. How many complaints is this about exactly and what is the ratio per region?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u46	Dear colleagues, I have indeed read the 2018 Annual Report of the Federal Mediation Service "Patient Rights". This had already been communicated to me in April 2019. According to the mediation service concerned, it is difficult to target the cause of the increase in the number of patient complaints received to 1,184 in 2018, 143 more than in 2017. These figures are to be put in perspective with the 2.55 million hospitalizations. Of these 1,184 complaints, 477 related to the direct jurisdiction of the Federal Mediation Service "Patient Rights". One of the explanations may be that the patient's rights are becoming more and more known, as well as the ability to complain to a mediator. With regard to the follow-up of the statistics and recommendations of the Federal Mediation Service "Patient Rights", it is difficult to promise measures during this period of day-to-day government. I hope that the law on the quality of the service of 22 April 2019, which will come into force in 2021, will bring results in terms of optimisation of the quality of care and in terms of the prevention of complaints. It includes, among other things, that by setting up a new monitoring committee, provided for by this law, the patient may have an additional alternative to lodge a complaint. Pursuant to Article 2 2° of that law, it also applies to the profession of dental. The law also provides for the establishment of a federal supervisory committee with the task of supervising, firstly, the physical and psychological fitness of health care professionals and, secondly, compliance by health care professionals with the provisions of this law and its implementing decisions. Finally, the patient's right to challenge a mediation function falls under federal jurisdiction. The way in which hospital mediation services are organised now falls within the competence of the federated entities. I have said on several occasions that I am not opposed to dialogue with representatives of the federated entities in this area. At the end of the previous legislature, it was decided, at an interdepartmental conference, to include the mediation function on the agenda and to submit the issue to a working group at that conference. This working group can also address this issue of increasing the number of complaints. Finally, Mrs Sneppe, I would like to remind you that at the start of the new mandate of the Committee on Patient Rights, everything was done to ensure that the profession of dentist would also be represented. The purpose of this measure was, inter alia, to consider, where necessary, the relationship between dental and patient. In short, with regard to the introduction of the order of dentists, it seems more appropriate to give priority to the implementation of the quality law of 22 April 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u47	Madam Minister, I thank you for your clarification, particularly for your willingness to meet with representatives of the federated entities and for the creation of a working group to address the issue of complaints. The initiative is excellent. On the other hand, with regard to the question of the creation of a Dentists' Order, you are sweeping it away. I imagine that our current business situation is not unrelated to thinking. I think it is necessary to create a reference body. In this regard, you have not answered part of my question about the French dentists who settle in our territory. They are sometimes deprived of their status as a practitioner at home. When they arrive at our house, there are no receptacles, no organs to check their quality. They practice at home sometimes by causing a lot of damage. We've had a few cases. It seems to me that the setting up of an organ would be necessary, whether it is a Dentists' Order or an organ that comes close to it, but the matter will have to be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u48	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. The teeth are very important, as they are part of the face and therefore immediately stand out. Something wrong with the teeth can have very serious consequences for the patient in question. That is why I hope that this law will enter into force quickly and that something will be done quickly. I also support my colleague's plea for a reference body to which people with specific complaints about dentistry can address themselves. That body must follow up the complaints and reprimand the dental services in question and call upon them. I therefore hope that something will be done soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u49	Question No 55002111C by Mr Malik Ben Achour is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u50	Mr. Chair, Minister, you recently passed legislation that organizes clinical networking between hospitals. This includes management and representation bodies composed of hospital managers and doctors. Minister, what will be the role of nurses in the network's management structures? Why has not a specific place been dedicated to them in view of their importance for the patients they are at bedside?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u51	Mr President, Mr Rigot, it will soon be a year since the legislation on hospital networks was approved since its vote took place on Valentine's Day. It was planned at Saint Nicholas, but this was not possible due to the fall of the government. This reform is considerable for all parties concerned. I fully recognize the leading role of nurses in care, particularly in hospitals. Indeed, what would a hospital without nurses be? But that is not what we are talking about here. The primary mission of a hospital network is to establish the medical strategy by analogy with what hospital legislation imposes on hospital structures, namely that strategic medical decisions must be taken in a concerted manner by the administration and the Medical Council. This same consultation is required in the legislation on hospital networks. Patient care is explicitly the responsibility of individual hospitals. In this context, the director of the nursing department remains responsible for the organisational and operational functioning of his department. The situation does not change with the setting up of networks. I would, of course, be the first to welcome harmonization between hospitals at the level of nursing departments. This harmonisation is also necessary to ensure continuity of care within the network. But we will not legislate on how this should be done because this decision belongs to them. A nursing advisory board could also be organized at the network level. The defence of interests within it represents something else, which is a matter of labour law. In this area, all employees are on an equal footing. No particular occupational group, such as nurses, is treated differently from others. However, I would like to point out that some expertise in the health sector is required in the management bodies of the network, which may include doctors, but also nurses and other health care professionals. They are expected to be independent in decision-making for the benefit of patients in the region or the network. Using nursing management expertise will certainly have a significant impact on organizationally thought medical decision-making.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u52	Madam Minister, first of all, I am pleased to hear the proposals you are making, particularly with regard to an advisory board that could include nurses. Indeed, it is not a matter here of being dogmatic by limiting them to such a structure for them to be heard. It is primarily a question of considering that those who are the most numerous at the bedside of patients are actually being listened to. In order for this not to happen to the Saint-Glinglin, but perhaps to the Saint-Didier – patron of the nurses – a boost from the legislator seems necessary to me. It is therefore not necessary to wait for such bodies to be set up, given that the network is in the process of being developed, but to try to encourage the establishment of such a structure by legal means. In this way, managers will be more encouraged to listen to white blouses, as – I hope – you will not fail to do in the coming weeks. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u53	Madam Secretary, doctors-specialists are an essential link in our healthcare system. They are usually consulted after a referral by the GP, when a specialized approach is required. In order to gain the desired level of knowledge and skills in a specialist field, intensive and often long-term training is needed. This training takes place for the most part through internships in hospitals, in which the specialist doctor participates in training in the workplace and is taught by the internship teacher about the necessary skills. The combination of learning and working means that many hours are performed. The training puts a lot of pressure on the doctor-specialist in particular. There would therefore be a substantial failure of doctors-specialists in training. In addition, the training as a specialist doctor is based on a federal and a regional part. As a doctor, a specialist in training is covered by health care, which is federal matter. As a specialist in training, the doctor is subject to education, which is a Community competence. The management of the status of doctor-specialist in training at two levels therefore does not make the situation any easier. I have a number of questions about this. Firstly, what is the number of doctors in training who quit during training? How are these figures kept? Secondly, how is the flow of Community figures to the federal level? Does Public Health receive Community figures? Why is that the case or not? Thirdly, what initiatives will you take to reduce the drop-out from training as a specialist doctor?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u54	Mrs. Gijbels, I'll give you the figures. It is the excerpt from the cadastre until 12 December 2019 on the evolution of the number of voluntary discontinuations in internships for hospital medicine specialties. So that is without general medicine and non-curative specialties, such as the occupational physicians. We can see that the figures are still not very good. We note that for the internships started in 2018, nine trainees in training have so far ceased their internships, corresponding to 0.6% of the number of internships started in 2018. As you can see, these figures are fluctuating, but they've been falling for the last five years. The Communities are responsible for approving and validating the internship plans of the doctors-specialists in training. After all, the training plan is an instrument that should lead to recognition. My competence in this area is therefore non-existent and I have had to ask for these figures from the Communities. Those figures shall be kept by the Communities, in eCAD, in the framework of the management of the traineeship plans. The data are shared between the federal level and the Länder as part of a joint application for the register of recognised healthcare professionals. The land register shall be supplemented by the different partners according to their competence and shall be managed at federal level under the Protocol Agreement of 19 October 2015. As for your question about the drop-out, in 2017, the Green Paper entitled "Towards an integrated solution for internship capacity, internship funding and quality assurance" was presented to the Supreme Council of Doctors-Specialists and GPs. It came as a result of the increased influx into the professional internship following the double cohort. I can't tell you how many questions I've been asked about the double cohort. In order to meet this, we have prepared the Green Paper. I think this was a good thing. This double cohort was born in 2018, when the PhD students of the seven- and six-year basic training were received. Currently, on the basis of data from the FPS and the Communities, funding is granted to internships who have one ASO or more in training. That scheme shall apply for 2016 to 2018 for internships in general hospitals. From 2019 onwards, the scheme will also apply to internships in university hospitals. This was made possible by the addition of the resources of the university part of the budget of financial resources, B9, intended for training. I note that the budget for the training of doctors-specialists has more than doubled since the implementation of the Green Paper. New concepts for evaluating the quality of traineeships are being developed for the further implementation of the Green Paper. This will probably require new legislation. This is currently being prepared by the experts of the FOD. The ASOs also ask for a mediation function for problems during the internship. That is a legitimate question that is being considered. I would also ask the National Joint Committee on Medicine and Hospitals to give an opinion on a national generic training agreement with agreements on the remuneration of the ASO. That agreement may be declared legally binding. Finally, there are useful contacts with the Minister's Office responsible for employment to identify and remedy the problems arising in the context of the registration of working time and the sometimes difficult requirements of certain internship services regarding the availability of services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u55	Madam Minister, at first glance, the number of out-of-work trainees may not be so bad, but there are also figures about the high number of burn-outs and the high number of hours worked by trainees, about the lack of job satisfaction and motivation that they are still getting out of work. We must follow that very closely, because these people are, of course, in daily contact with patients, where the empathic capacity remains very important. It is therefore very welcome to follow the quality of the traineeships and to introduce a mediation function.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u56	Madam Secretary, dental care has already come up for discussion today. I'm talking about a part here, the orthodontics. Undoubtedly, you have taken note of Solidaris's large-scale study carried out in Wallonia. This shows that one in two young people between 10 and 15 years of age on their own initiative or that of the parents has the intention to start orthodontics. Eventually, one in five doesn't take the treatment. This is mainly the case for children from lower-income families. Its causes can be diverse. This may be the duration of the treatment, which will soon take several months or years. There is also the cost of treatment. On average, this is 1,700 euros, but this can be even higher and up to twice as much, depending on the device to be used or prescribed. Compulsory health insurance is already included, with a maximum of 800 euros. A little enviable finding is that patients with supplementary dental insurance pay even more de facto. In addition, very few orthodontists have convenitioned. If they are not conditioned, which applies to nine out of ten orthodontists, they can charge supplements, no matter what they usually do. In his recommendations, Solidaris asks for a better reimbursement of orthodontics for medical treatment and to distinguish between medical treatments and aesthetic interventions, as the Knowledge Centre once recommended in a report. Moreover, I think it is right to ask for a framework for the cost of equipment, whereby one can see a price comparison by type, supplemented by a maximum amount, so that one can make a better choice and know in advance what the choice implies in terms of financial intervention. That is therefore a plea for a mandatory offer with a treatment plan, so that the patient can anticipate the costs. Madam Secretary, what do you think of Solidaris' recommendations to keep the costs of orthodontics affordable and in advance more priceable for, mostly, the parents? How will you ensure that more orthodontists, such as more dentists in general, are reconvened, which will bring them back to full compliance with the convention rates?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u57	Mr President, Madam Minister, a study by Solidaris regrets that if one in three children, aged between 10 and 15, begin orthodontic treatment, one in five children will not pursue it and this will not result in the installation of a device. The study also concludes that this problem arises mainly in disadvantaged families. Another problem is the very high rate of deconcentrated orthodontists (94%). This is why Solidaris advocates for better pricing, better reimbursement and a mandatory and standardised quotation. Minister, what do you think of the recommendations of Solidaris mutuality? In your opinion, what is the reason for the very low rate of dentist conventionation? What do you intend to do to improve this rate? Have you taken any action yet? Is there a control framework for conventions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u58	Colleagues, in the press release on Solidaris' study on the cost of orthodontic treatment, two conclusions emerge, which should be examined in more detail. On the one hand, not all children who start orthodontic treatment receive an orthodontic device. On the other hand, the average cost varies. These are rather simplistic statements. Not all children really need a device at the end of the exam in order to start an orthodontic treatment, for example because the anomaly is rather aesthetic in nature. The fact that the cost varies is obvious when it is known that the anomalies can vary greatly, as can the duration of treatment. The sickness insurance does not, in fact, reimburse the whole of the treatment. Most orthodontists did not accede to the tariff agreement. All this has a historical origin. As far as the nomenclature of dental care is concerned, there were only dentists. They have shaped the agreement and the nomenclature. Then there was the recognition of specialties, including orthodontics. That's a recent phenomenon. When I was young, that did not exist, but my children also enjoyed it, although "partners" is a great word. The agreement 2017-2018, point 4, last paragraph, included that a working group would make proposals by the end of 2017 to evaluate the reimbursement mechanism for orthodontics and to examine whether a differentiation in reimbursement was possible, depending on the severity of the dental defect, with a better reimbursement for the serious deviations. The same agreement also stated that a mandatory price estimate would be made before treatment began. I note that the National Committee on Dental Medical Funds left that dead letter and did not actually do anything about it. In the Belgian consultation model, the proposals for the refund and adjustment of the nomenclature come from the consultative bodies. Of course, it is not easy to find a mechanism of differentiated reimbursement according to the severity of the deviation; several of them have bitten their teeth. Some insurance institutions, for example, did not apply the index or treatment for the payment of their additional intervention in orthodontics. They had to come back quickly, because their members did not understand why they withdrew more from one child and less from the other. Some anomalies were not found to be very bad, for example a cross bite, while the parents did mind. Eventually they decided to pay everyone a fixed amount, even though there is a difference in treatments, which can be more expensive and long-term. This also has to do with growth, for example. Boys are more expensive, for example, because that jaw changes more during puberty. That is not discrimination, but it is inherent to growth and gender. We have not got out of it completely, and we have decided to cut off the discussions and pay a lump sum. I am sorry that the agreement of the National Committee on Dental and Medical Funds remained a dead letter, because there is indeed a great need in this respect. After all, we now see that more and more dental abnormalities can be treated orthodontically. If one had too big teeth and too small a mouth years ago, precious premolars were drawn. Now a solution is being sought in another way, while maintaining those teeth. Of course, that is better for the children, who have to use their teeth for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u59	Madam Secretary, orthodontics is a recognized specialty. If one says A, one should also say B and provide for normal reimbursement rates for orthodontics. That way all children can enjoy orthodontics. After all, none of us want health care at different speeds. In orthodontics, that phenomenon already exists. We have to do something about that. I regret, along with you, that the Dentomut's penultimate agreement on orthodontics remained dead letter. You can't hide behind the consultation model. I am the last person to challenge the consultation model, but in the healthcare sector, that consultation works in the context of a tripartite. The government is therefore part of that consultation model. I would therefore ask you, in the context of that tripartite, which plays in almost all the organs of the RIZIV, to step up efforts to repay orthodontics for medical treatment. You need to make sure that orthodontics are accessible to everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u60	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am surprised that you are questioning the results of this study. It is obvious that orthodontic treatments have a very high cost to families and often do not use them for this reason. Society is changing and it seems to me normal for more and more people to have access to care to have a correct dentition. A better refund seems to me to be an option. Your idea of following a criterion of severity to better pay back will lead to a lot of debate because it is a rather abstract notion. I believe that the criteria for reimbursement must be reviewed in order to be able to start treatment at an early age. But better reimbursement means better price control because orthodontic devices are overly expensive. For example, a call for tenders could also be used. Finally, with regard to the fact that the agreement has remained a dead letter, it is also your responsibility to take this in hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u61	Mr President, I raised my question just before the holidays and wondered whether it was appropriate to talk about alcohol and alcohol advertising. Meanwhile it is full tournée minérale and it is convenient that we had to wait. At least in February, everyone agrees that alcohol can cause serious damage to our health. However, we are confronted everywhere with advertising and discounts on alcoholic drinks: in shops, service stations, by the road. Cafés sometimes offer substantial discounts, for example in the form of a happy hour, which encourage excessive alcohol consumption. The debate on alcohol marketing is fueled by conflicting interests. On the one hand, there are clear recommendations from the High Health Council to limit the quantity and frequency of alcohol consumption. Scientific BELSPO study showed a positive relationship between exposure to alcohol advertising and initiation age for alcohol consumption, the amount and frequency of alcohol consumption in young people and recurrent behaviour in persons recovering from alcohol addiction. On the other hand, there are the economic interests of the alcohol, catering and marketing sectors. You have tried to reconcile both interests in a covenant on advertising and marketing of alcoholic beverages. However, researchers consider that the Jury for Ethics, the proposed self-regulatory mechanism, does not adequately protect the importance of public health. Are you in favour of introducing a ban on alcohol advertising, similar to the ban on tobacco products? How do you see that? What discounts do you think would be allowed or not allowed? How do you see this in the context of general public health, and specifically targeted at young people? With what policy objectives do you want to reduce alcohol consumption among adolescents, the 18- to 25-year-olds in particular, and by extension also the adult population? It is often said that there is no basis for these policy objectives to take real action. How do you work on that support that we will need to achieve these policy objectives?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u62	Mrs Creemers, as you know, there have already been several attempts in the previous legislature to take measures with the various ministers of the Community governments to prevent alcohol consumption and to prevent alcohol abuse. Even before I took office, there were attempts to reach a common policy with them that combats alcohol abuse. That was not possible for several reasons. I have already answered many questions about this. But I have always focused on my own powers in this matter. As far as I am concerned, the same issue is always at stake. There must be a responsible use of alcohol. This is a matter of correct information and a strong commitment to prevention. However, I do not believe in dialoguing any alcohol consumption, because most people actually handle it correctly. It is the problematic consumption of alcohol that we need to detect and address in time. Diabolication does not contribute to the desired support for certain behavioural changes. I believe that the reform of the Jury for Ethical Practice deserves a chance. For example, the FPS Public Health will be invited when complaints about alcohol advertising are discussed. It also helps to pass on advertising on television and radio to the Jury for Ethics Practice. It is by understanding each other better that the application of the alcohol agreement can only improve. I tell you that this will continue to be a challenge in the next legislature. I believe that not only alcohol consumption, but also drug and tobacco consumption are poorly regulated. You know my opinion on that. I think it is a great loss of energy and effort that such an important area has become so fragmented by all the state reforms. I see Mrs Merckx nodding. It is very unfortunate that it was thought to achieve better results in the field by classifying it in this way. I just don't get where they got it. But it is what it is. You know that it is my proposal to bring all this to one level. That should be the federal level. We are also in charge of early detection. I've put liaison officers in the emergency wards. A broken wrist may be due to the shoes or the floor, but it may also be that one has drunk one piece in the collar. Young people with alcohol intoxication are also introduced. People at music festivals are sometimes just out of the world because of alcohol. This may be occasional use, but some use is frequent. Then there's already a problem. It may then take another ten years to experience this as a real problem at work, in the family, among the acquaintances. I do not think that every human being who once drinks a glass should be diabolized and nailed to shame like a great alcoholic. I think we really need to deal with that in a different way. I have trouble with people who say that every drop is too much. I know people who have grown a hundred years or older and now and then have a drop of drink. Those were mostly women. They have never had problematic alcohol consumption. Sometimes very young people can be seen to develop problematic uses. I think it is a shame that this important domain has been so fragmented.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u63	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I think we agree that fragmentation needs to be addressed. Nevertheless, I think there are still opportunities for you at the federal level. I refer to the fact that last week our Committee on Health unanimously approved a ban on tobacco advertising. Without diabolicalizing, we can look at alcohol in a similar way. Especially young people are encouraged by happy hours to double what they pay for. I believe that we have opportunities in this respect within the federal competence that we are currently abandoning. Perhaps we should put our ideas on this in a resolution or a legislative proposal? We're definitely gonna work on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u64	Mr. Speaker, Madam Minister, you will recall that we had a number of discussions on this issue in the previous Parliament. I have spoken personally on several occasions. Finally, progress was made on this issue so that children with an IQ of less than 86 are no longer penalized. These children are increasingly enrolled in regular education. And the fact that they could not, like others, benefit, regardless of a particular approach, from the reimbursement of logopedia benefits was a problem. This is particularly the case for autistic children. As you know, the law of May 8, 2019 changes the coverage of logopedia services. It was therefore necessary to adopt a royal decree on multidisciplinary research in connection with the Commission de convention logopedes-bodies insurers. Madam Minister, today I come back to the subject because it is a point of concern for the children concerned. In doing so, could you inform us about the implementation of this law? Has the Commission de convention logopédes-organismes insurrectionaires already addressed the issue? In particular, multidisciplinary research on the issue of rules for the cumulation of monodisciplinary logopedia benefits with multidisciplinary rehabilitation for children whose IQ is less than 86 has started or not started? If so, what are the modalities of this research? If not, may I urge you to make the necessary arrangements for it to begin?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u65	Madam Minister, my colleague Mrs Fonck has already touched on the subject that we are going to address right now. There is an injustice, an inequality in our system of care regarding the various reimbursements of logopedia sessions between children who have an IQ greater than 86 and children who cannot pass this test. This is a problem of reimbursement, in particular. We find ourselves a little in the eternal history of the egg and the chicken. These children, who are particularly vulnerable, need logopedia to increase their chances of passing the IQ test. But it is precisely this test of IQ, which they fail to succeed, that would allow them to access the reimbursement of the logopedia. Minister, Ms.Fonck mentioned a few moments ago the legislative context you know, which dates back to early 2019. What about the research that was to be initiated? Could the IQ criterion be revised to finally give all these children access to the care they need? Logopedia will only improve their well-being and social inclusion tomorrow. Are you considering a short-term amendment of the legislation if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u66	Colleagues, the Commission de convention logopédes-organismes insurers has indeed been informed of the law of 8 May 2019 amending the taking over of the services of logopédie and its scope. The Commission has not yet concluded on how to implement this law. It found that additional funding is not provided by the government for 2020. The Commission will continue to consult with multidisciplinary actors and the scientific community. For the time being, it is negotiating a new agreement to ensure patients' access to logopedic treatment, and tariff security. It is obvious that we continue to follow this issue closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u67	Minister, this is not short and good. It's short and brief! What can I tell you? If it is only that, in the end, not moving forward on this issue will, in my view, be much more expensive. In fact, among them, there are autistic children who are not necessarily followed in a multidisciplinary centre, who are integrated into mainstream education and who cannot benefit from a reimbursement in logopedia. These children are treated as different children. In terms of social justice, social equity and access to health care, this is problematic. On the other hand, as regards the success of their academic career and their social integration, they are losing. So we are all losers. I would therefore like, Madam Minister, to insist heavily on you so that we can move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u68	Minister, I hear that this is moving forward, but we don't know how to set a deadline. There is no budgetary response to the situation today, even if we keep an eye on it. I do think it's a little short. You say you're careful. We are all aware, I hope, of this real injustice, which leads to situations of precariousness for the most vulnerable children who are in fact at risk of irreversible damage in the future. It is a persistent discrimination that even runs counter to article 3 of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. The best interests of the child are evident in this situation and, more than ever, we must act now, Madam Minister, otherwise it will be too late for a whole generation that you are going to sacrifice. We expect action more than reflection. We have given you legal texts to achieve this. Routine or no current business, budget or no budget, we now expect actions and, if necessary, we can carry them out with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u69	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns paliperidone. The RIZIV proposed the top 25 of the active elements of the expenditure in the outpatient sector of medical care insurance in 2018. What amazes me very much is the increase in prescribing paliperidone, an atypical antipsychotic prescribed for the treatment of schizophrenia or schizo-affective disorders. It's in tenth place. In 2018, 15,366 patients were treated with paliperidone. I have a number of questions on the subject. Firstly, over the last three years, I have recorded an average annual increase of 8% per year in the net amount spent on paliperidone treatment. What do you think is the explanation for the increase, despite the fact that there is also a generic, Invega, which automatically results in a fall in prices? Second, in 2018, 15,366 patients were treated with paliperidone. Can you tell me the evolution of the number of patients treated over the three-year period, since the generic has entered the market? Thirdly, can I receive an overview of the age distribution of the patients being treated with the medicine?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u70	Mr President, Mrs Depoter, it is a history. Indeed, since the introduction of chlorpromazine in 1952 antipsychotics have been an important part of the symptomatic treatment of psychotic disorders. In clinical practice, relapsed psychosis often follows after a patient with antipsychotic discontinuation. Many people find it difficult to follow long-term prescribed medical treatment. In people with psychotic disorder, long-term use of medication is often complicated by a low level of disease awareness and cognitive impairment. More than one in three people with psychosis stop taking the recommended antipsychotic after four weeks of treatment or stop taking the recommended dose. Following any recurrent psychosis, there is a tendency for the recovery period to last longer, there may be more cognitive deterioration and there is evidence that antipsychotics are less effective in reducing psychotic symptoms in some people. In the longer term, this can lead to worse symptomatic, social and physical outcomes. Prevention of recurrent psychosis is therefore an important goal in the treatment of psychotic disorders. For paliperidone, the significant increase in expenditure is a direct consequence of the increase in the use of that antipsychotic medicinal product. The 2016 MORSE report shows that the number of patients remains stable over the period 2013-2016, but the number of defined daily doses increases slightly. Total expenditure on antipsychotics decreased by 12.5 % in 2016, which can be explained by the application of the reference refund system for aripiprazole, which was the largest expenditure item in that drug class for that saving measure. However, these savings conceal an increase in expenditure linked to a growing consumption of paliperidone. Since the reference cluster was opened in April 2019, we should also soon see a decrease in the expenditure for paliperidone. This will have to be demonstrated by a subsequent MORSE report. Then I have for you a table of the evolution of the number of patients treated, classified by age, for the period 2015-2018. The source of the data is Farmanet's database. There you can see which patients use this product the most. You can see that the largest group is between 30 and 51 years old.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u71	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. It confirms my concern about recurrent psychosis in society. This is a problem which we must look very closely at. The age of patients 30 to 51 years of age.............................................................................................................................................................................. We need to look at the causes of this prevalence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u72	Madam Secretary, the Human Body Material Act determines the definition of biobank. Universities and research labs indicate that the interpretation of the human body material law leads to discussion. At present, the research laboratories have to report all human material in a comprehensive interpretation of the law, even if it has been mutated repeatedly and barely has a link to the original DNA. Firstly, are you aware of the problem? Secondly, is it true that there is a gentleman's agreement on the interpretation of the law? Thirdly, Flanders is a knowledge region that is committed to research and development. An amendment of the law is therefore necessary. Will your cabinet take initiatives for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u73	Mrs Depoorter, we are aware of the problems you mentioned. It has been established on several occasions, including in the framework of the Working Group on the Preparation of the Compensatory Biobanks, an interpretative working document which has been developed in cooperation with the sector. It was indeed stated that any type of derived material, such as cell lines or extracted materials, should be recorded in a biobank. The representatives of the academic sector and the pharmaceutical industry have repeatedly argued that this would not be feasible. In order to solve the problem, a legislative amendment was prepared. However, as a result of the fall of the government, the draft law was unable to be implemented. We could have had a number of points put forward here as a proposal, but it really is a far-reaching bill, and that could not be implemented. Members of the Chamber then submitted the relevant amending provisions as a legislative proposal, both during the previous legislature and this one. Those provisions are the result of extensive consultations with the actors concerned, in particular the academic institutions and the pharmaceutical industry. A more flexible regime would be introduced for artificial materials, such as cell lines, and extracted material, in so far as they are not used for genetic research. You can find those billings back. As the health risk is minimal, inspections on the collections of extracted material or artificial material are given the lowest priority pending the above-mentioned legislative amendment, which will eventually be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u74	Madam Minister, I have not yet seen these legislative proposals as a priority, but I will certainly look them up and follow them up. The N-VA Group is certainly inclined to support such proposals. We will, of course, study them first, but we believe that it is absolutely necessary in a region of knowledge such as Flanders to take initiatives to this end.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u75	Question No 55002219C by Mr Bertels is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u76	Madam Minister, I tabled this question on 19 December and the following day the royal decree was published in the Belgian Moniteur as part of the Maribel Social Funds for 2019. Maribel Social Funds are responsible for the execution of the White Blouse Fund. The main questions today are how the budgetary framework will be sustained (since we are now in 2020), how these funds will be allocated to ensure that it is effective and efficient in relation to the reality on the ground. If I may insist, it is because we need both more staff at the patient's bedside, but also to work on the attractiveness of the nursing profession. As I have always said: a fund to commit is not enough given the major shortages on the ground, as hospitals are not able to commit. Will there be solutions negotiated with actors on the ground? Will you be open and in line with how the social partners will work on budget allocations under the Maribel social funds?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u77	Madam Minister, my question concerns the concrete implementation of the 2019 Health Care Staff Fund. In the meantime, of course, this matter has already evolved, because you have sent a note to the Social Maribel Fund. It provided an explanation of how the funds were allocated. However, we hear from the actors in the field that restrictive criteria have been applied to the allocation of these funds. There was a great deal of concern on the subject, and new consultations are being called for in order to make the best use of these resources. Will you follow up on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u78	Colleagues, at the end of November 2019, our assembly approved the White Blouse Fund Bill by a large majority. The political agreement we reached with a large majority was very clear as regards its scope. This includes both the private and public hospital sector and home nursing. The approved legislation clearly mentions this and is very transparent in this regard. Medical homes are therefore not concerned. The White Blouse Fund falls within the purview of the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment. It was not obvious to assign in the short term the correct White Blouse Fund resources to whom it was entitled. In order for the Public Health FPS to transfer these resources to the Management Committee of the Joint Committee 330 and to the Management Committee of the Public Sector Social Maribel Fund, a Technical Budget Implementation Order was adopted and signed by the Head of State on 20 December 2019. This implementing decree establishes the distribution between the Management Committee of the Joint Committee 330 and the Public Sector Social Maribel Fund, based on the staff employed in 2017 expressed in full-time equivalents within the sectors concerned, as provided for in the Act of 9 December 2019 establishing a White Blouse Fund. On 11 January 2020, the Management Committee of Joint Committee 330 received an amount of EUR 42 million, while the Management Committee of the Public Sector Social Maribel Fund received an amount of EUR 16.8 million. In consultation with the Minister for Work, an information note was sent on the use of the resources of the Health Care Staff Fund. There must be more people around the patient. It also set out, inter alia, how the audit should be carried out. There was further consultation with the social partners within the management committee of the Maribel funds, which also includes a government commissioner. EUR 8 million is also provided for self-employed home care. There has already been consultation with the various stakeholders on how this amount can best be used. However, this has not yet been completed because there are quite a number of differences of opinion. Above all, we want more people in home care. Some people had misunderstood this and thought that the money could be used differently, for example to increase support, telematics premiums and so on. This is possible in a subsequent phase, when it comes to making the profession more attractive. Here, however, it was intended to get more nurses to the patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u79	Minister, thank you for your answers. The first objective, of course, is to increase the number of nurses at the patient's bedside, since we have a shortage problem. We are witnessing a kind of vicious circle: on the one hand, we cannot engage; and on the other, because we do not make the profession more attractive, we do not have more nurses available in the labour market. That is why I believe it is essential to take a two-track approach: to work on the number of caregivers at the patient's bedside and, at the same time, on the aspect of attractiveness. This applies to both hospitals and home care. In order to be able to provide balanced answers, essential steps must be taken through consultation. I would like to insist on that. Finally, as we are already in February, it is important to sustain this fund this year. It belongs to you, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u80	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am pleased to learn that the money has reached the various Maribel funds. For the rest, we expect them to be more structurally sustainable. As such, it seems to me that the medical home sector has been forgotten. Nursing is also provided. This component should therefore be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u81	Mr President, I seem to have tabled the question twice. After the stories of Pia, Victor and Valentina there are also stories of parents with a child with XLH (X-linked hypophosphatemia). They also raise the alarm about the Burosumab or Crysvita product, which is already being repaid in several European Member States, while in our country this is not yet the case. There would be negotiations on Crysvita at the moment. Can you provide more information on this? How many patients are there in our country diagnosed with XLH? Are there patients who have access to burosumab via compassionate use or a medical-need program? In a European study on patient WAIT indicators, our country does not score well with regard to the accessibility of orphan medicinal products. Are you going to take steps to do that? Are you prepared to provide a partial budget in the budget for patients with orphan diseases?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u82	Thank you for your question. As regards burosumab, the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products confirms that no emergency medical programme exists at present. For the WAIT indicator, the time between the granting of the licence and the application for reimbursement is also taken into account for Belgium. This also depends on the company's strategic decision to wait for the file to be submitted, on the lead time of the refund procedure, which is legally 180 calendar days, and on the interruptions in the decision-making process, at the company's request. So the company can ask for some kind of time-out in the negotiations and then the procedure is suspended. Neither the RIZIV nor myself as Minister of Health can suspend the proceedings. If it is suspended, it is always at the company's request. As far as the lead times are concerned, I have already introduced, where possible, faster administrative procedures, with a decision-making boom to facilitate access to new indications. I also work together in Beneluxa to do all the preparatory work for the granting of a permit. That's why I installed the creation of an International Horizon Scanning Initiative. At present, in determining the pharmaceutical budget, the following elements are taken into account: the budgetary margin due to legal price reductions, the market evolution of the medicines already reimbursed and an assessment of innovative medicines entering the market. There is therefore no use of a partial budget for a therapeutic indication, even for orphan diseases. The budget is the collective responsibility of the sector, with any overruns also being recovered from the sector on the basis of the existing clawback regulation. A partial budget would mean that collective responsibility would disappear. What would happen if the partial budget were insufficient? I therefore have no plans for partial budgets in the pharmaceutical budget, not even for orphan medicinal products. However, we have already made a catching-up effort for the reimbursement of orphan medicinal products in this legislature: around 30 new refunds have been added. After all, there was an incredible stand still, when I ended up in the department in 2014. At that time, no available drug had been dealt with by reimbursement for a very long time, so to speak, because of a lack of resources and the fact that they are often expensive medicines for not always a large number of patients, even though there are always enough to be important. A great deal has been done in the field of orphan medicinal products. In order to be able to negotiate better, we have also established Beneluxa, in which we already work with five countries. There are many more countries in the Horizon Scanning Initiative. I can only say that these efforts must continue. You know that science and technology are evolving so quickly that new orphan medicines are always on the market.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u83	Madam Minister, I have not heard your answer to the question on the medical need programme. Are there any patients in a medical need program?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u84	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic107x.u85	Efforts have been made with regard to the rest. For our group, Beneluxa was allowed to go a little further, with even more cooperation and more negotiations. I think we have really missed a chance there, but that can of course always be changed. One of the major problems in the context of orphan medicinal products seems to me to be the time we are losing. You said 180 days. You mentioned the company's withdrawal from her question. Very often there are other studies and there are already other products in the pipeline. I think we really need to think about an early access to certain medicines. How can we get them from the EEA to the patient faster? How can we reduce the time span between the FDA, after an orphan medicine has been approved, and the EEA? So how can we live up to the early access in Belgium? We are really lagging behind other states, which have already introduced it. I am not saying that there has been no work, there has certainly been a catch-up, but we still have a lot of challenges ahead of us. We must be very alert to this and ensure that patients are able to get this medication faster than pay for performance, possibly after a year or three years.
