ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u1	This meeting was originally scheduled for this morning but it could not continue because the Minister's presence was required on the National Security Council. The Conference of Presidents decided to split the committee meeting into two parts: the resolutions on the agenda will now be discussed at tomorrow's sitting at 11 a.m., the topical and topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u2	Mr President, Minister, as a reminder, the federal government ordered 15 million fabric masks via the Luxembourg company Avrox. While you have justified the choice of a European, Luxembourgish company, for the sake of speed, it must be noted that the order has fallen behind and that a large part of the masks have still not been distributed. Minister, how many masks have been distributed to date by Avrox? Can you give us more details about deliveries in the coming days and weeks? How will these masks be distributed? Can you clarify the late fines in the contract with Avrox? To date, how many fines would already be imposed, given the delays already noted?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u3	Mr Minister, Mr Freilich has already asked a number of questions about the award and procedure. He will be asking a number of further questions about this later. On the delivery, distribution and the possible role of pharmacists in this story, colleagues Van Camp and Depoorter will be asking questions later. However, we would all like to know exactly what the status of the mission is. How many of the masks ordered have already been delivered and how will the distribution go? What role will pharmacists possibly play in this? What role do you expect regional and local authorities to play in this story?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u4	Mr President, Minister, my questions concern the distribution of masks ordered from Avrox, among our citizens. This would have been negotiated with the pharmacist associations APB and OPHACO and there would be an agreement. Mr Minister, what is this agreement about? What are the modalities? Is the distribution initially addressed to certain risk groups, or directly to the entire population? Will the pharmacists be reimbursed for the distribution? Are those masks here yet? From when can the distribution be started via the pharmacies? As the mouth masks are distributed through the pharmacies, they must meet certain minimum quality requirements. I have heard that Avrox has sent samples, but since the delivery is being delayed, I wonder if the delivery will also be tested further, so that the pharmacists are sure of the quality of the masks they distribute. How come the deal was closed first and the masks were tested after? That should normally be different, I believe. On 22 April an agreement was reached with the pharmacists on the distribution of surgical mouth masks. For what reasons did that agreement not go through? Why, for the distribution of the community masks, do you now fall back on the pharmacist corps?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u5	Mr President, my question was referred to Minister Goffin because several ministers are responsible for the masks. I had originally addressed the question to the ministers De Block and De Backer but I was referred to the ministers Goffin and None. Meanwhile, I was informed that Minister Geens referred my question back to Minister De Backer. I hope that Minister Goffin will now be able to give me an answer and that I will no longer be sent from the cabinet to the wall. Mr Minister, my question is very simple. Why hasn't the government considered providing our population with face shields to protect against the virus? Maybe you still want to do that? An article has recently been published in a respected scientific journal that shows that this is a better alternative. The price is also lower. I am not talking about medical face shields but about a simple model that is available at the same price as a mouth mask. They are sometimes even cheaper because for an ordinary fabric mouth mask, which you have chosen and which I have still not found on my bus, one has to calculate the substance as well as the manufacture and the filters while people have to wash them. A face shield can be disinfected and is therefore much more durable. A face shield also offers more protection, especially for laymen who do not know how to work with a mouth mask. After all, a face shield covers the entire face, preventing people from touching their eyes. That is how they themselves and the others are better protected. Are you still considering suddenly choosing face shields so that the population is properly protected? After all, you have not yet been able to fulfil your promise about the fabric masks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u6	Mr Minister, I have already asked you about the market that your ministry has put in order to supply the 18 million masks in fabric to the Belgians, an intervention in which I particularly welcomed the expertise and speed of your administration. However, I deplored a number of points, including the fact that this market was not passed faster via Defence. Perhaps the government would have been more inspired to trust him earlier. As far as the practical and political aspects of this huge market are concerned today, it would appear that while delivery was due to take place on 24 May, out of the 18 million, only 4.5 million masks were received in time. Even if the Luxembourg company responsible for delivering the rest will have to pay compensation per day of delay, this market highlights legitimate criticisms of the Belgian industry. Thus, in the press, the Essenscia and Fedustria federations consider this delay to be a "lack of respect" for the Belgian industrial expertise because the strict deadline was a decisive argument in the evaluation of tenders. We can understand them. Even if you are not responsible, the selected company was unable to deliver the masks on time. So I understand all our Belgian entrepreneurs who could have delivered you at least the same amount. The companies also point out that "many Belgian textile, clothing and plastics companies feel ridiculed", which is obviously a pity. Finally, since the last committee, additional questions have yet to be asked about the profile of the selected Luxembourg company. Minister, can we take stock of this issue since my previous questions, particularly in terms of timing and cost to the state? As a follow-up, what can be done, given that this is a framework agreement that other public authorities could use? Could better account be taken of Belgian production capacity? What is your reaction to the news in the press about the selected Luxembourg company? We saw a beautiful villa but no one wanted to answer. I don't know either. Once all of the masks have arrived and stored at the Barracks of Puie, will Defence's own capabilities be mobilized for distribution? I've already told you of my fears if it was distributed through pharmacies. What is the role of the municipalities? You are now planning a delivery for June 9. Will that always be the case? Will this be done through pharmacies? Are you going to inform all stakeholders quickly? Thank you for all your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u7	Mr President, I should like to point out that I will have to be absent and will therefore not be here for the rest. Minister, at our last committees, I also had the opportunity to ask you about the mission that you had been assigned in this mask order. I will quickly expose to you my fears that remain today. Indeed, we were aware of the delays. I would like you to inform us of the justification for these. Can you confirm how many masks have been delivered to date by Avrox? Like my colleagues, I would like you to take stock of the distribution. You talked about pharmacies. This track seems to be coming to fruition today. I had also told you of my fears about this lead. I would like to know if pharmacies will be used to carry out this mission. In this method of distribution to the population, do you envisage logistical support from Defence or even provincial command or civil defence? These are the points that I would like to see clarified. Do you intend to play a role at the local and regional levels? Can you reassure us about the deadlines, given the delays we are experiencing today? I heard about the June 9th date. Is this date confirmed? Can we respond transparently again, as you have done in previous weeks, by providing us with the most accurate answers possible so that we can continue to understand the issues, the ins and outs of this issue? I thank you already for the answers you can give us and for carrying out this difficult issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u8	Minister, according to my information, many of these masks have not yet arrived. They may be destined for the Carabinieri of Offenbach, who arrive when the battle is over. If the information of my colleague from Ecolo-Groen is correct, it may arrive after 9 June. What about delivery times? How many masks have been delivered? How many will be in the next few days? Will we have the entire order? In addition, penalties had been provided for late delivery. Where are we? How much will this firm have to pay? Have any requests for penalties already been addressed to the supplier? When do they have to be paid? What is your assessment of the quality of these masks, in particular compliance with the specifications? Finally, many alternatives were found in Belgium to have masks. Who will benefit from these masks? Who will you prefer in the distribution?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u9	Minister, I may have to read your answers in the report, because I have legislative work in another committee. There has been a delay in the delivery of mouth masks ordered from Avrox. What financial impact has this had on the firm concerned so far? The tender shall contain penalty clauses. How much is the fine so far? How many mouth masks have arrived in Belgium so far? Were these tested? Has the package that has already arrived already been distributed? How should this division be done? Has the Court of Auditors given a ruling on this dossier? All tenders were requested. Can you formally confirm that the registered Belgian firms did not have all the qualifications necessary to obtain the award? Can you go into more detail about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u10	Mr Minister, I would like to return to the questions I asked you in plenary last week. A number of Belgian firms took part in this award. They received an answer that their offer did not meet, for example because there were no references. Can you give me more information on this? Did you ask for an internal investigation yourself? Is this an administrative error by the people who had to look at the offers? If so, what are we going to do about it? If it's not an administrative error, why did this happen at different firms? I don't mean to catch you as a minister or to take down the Defense Department, but to point out that there are a lot of coincidences here. I understand that, if there are so many coincidences in a file, I have questions. Is it a coincidence that the award went to a completely unknown firm? I think that's a strange thing. A second coincidence, Avrox had the highest price of all. There were several firms that had a lower price. Is it by chance that several firms which have given a reference were subsequently told that they did not provide a reference? All these coincidences together give the impression that something isn't right. Anyone can win the Lotto, but the chance of winning the Lotto twice or three times is quite nonexistent. That's why I've asked the Court of Auditors to have access. You referred to this last week here in Parliament. I hope that we will now have clarity and answer quickly and that we will be able to ensure that the masks reach everyone as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u11	Mr President, Minister, I come straight from another committee. Two of my colleagues had also submitted questions, but are present in another committee and cannot be here. I'll be very brief. A great deal has already been said and we are particularly interested in the answers. I questioned you last week in the plenary about the state of play. I would like to have a current state of affairs today. What is the current state of affairs with regard to the supply of mouth masks and, above all, with regard to those of the firm Avrox which did not meet at that time? What are the financial consequences of this? Did the firm communicate about the reason for the delay? Is there any clarity about that? What's their explanation for that? What is the consequence of the distribution of the mouth masks and the organisation of that distribution? When do you plan to start doing that? Maybe it's time to think about that distribution and its use. Maybe that can happen some other way. Perhaps the mouth masks can be used in a different way later, because I think they will be available very late. Finally, I hope you will also comment on the link with the Cairo Amman Bank, on which my colleague Mr Crombez had put a question, and on the statement by Mr Philippe De Koster of the Financial Information Processing Cell, on which my colleague Mr Bertels had put a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u12	Mr President, Minister, I apologise for commuting between the Committee on External Relations and this committee, which makes me late. But since you cannot be accused of punctuality today, Minister, I hope you will forgive me. I will stop asking some of my questions because you have already done your best to answer them in plenary last Thursday. However, you did not answer a number of questions at the time or is new, so I will ask them. Firstly, there is my question which dates back to 21 May and to which I have still not received an answer. Will you invoke the clauses in the agreement that allow us to claim damages for late delivery? Just like in plenary, I want to know everything about that conscious claim for damages. Has it already been communicated to Avrox? What is the amount of compensation claimed? Is there any response from Avrox on this? The question of one million, as I said last Thursday, is whether you consider it realistic that we can claim even one euro or demand a company with a particularly low social capacity. In connection with the same supplier, I asked you last Thursday whether there was a background check on that company. I understand that this was not the case. Has an investigation been initiated or are you planning to do so since last Thursday? If not, what are your reasons for this? If so, who is responsible for the investigation? With regard to the framework contract, I would like to know whether you will exhaust all the possibilities provided for in it. What are your arguments for this? Given the fact that I am very politely expressing myself about one of the suppliers, are you considering placing an order with the same company when the quantities are exhausted, or will you be looking for another potential supplier? In the latter case, will you use the same procedure that led to the current supplier, or will you initiate a new procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u13	All the questioners have spoken. The Rules of Procedure provide that, in a topical debate, Members who have not tabled a question may express their views once, either before or after the Minister's reply. Anyone else asking for the floor? [[No.]] Minister, I give you the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for half an hour late. The National Security Council has extended a little. Many issues are indeed on the agenda. It is with great pleasure that I present myself again to you to answer it. Since your questions about the acquisition of fabric oral masks are often similar, I will first provide an update to date. I shall then deal with the more specific questions put by the various Members. At the Defence Committee held on May 13, 2020, I explained to you the process that Defence was taking in order to reach the award of the contract for the acquisition of fabric masks to Tweeds & Cottons and Avrox. Mrs Van Camp, the contract concerned the purchase of textile masks for the population, as requested by the government on 27 April. I cannot give you an answer to your question as to why no face shields have been purchased. That's not my responsibility. As a reminder, Defense ordered 18 million masks, not 50 million as is sometimes claimed. All these masks have to be delivered to Peutie according to the contract. The company Tweeds & Cotton respected the contractual delivery deadline and delivered 1 million masks on Sunday 17 May and 2 million masks on Sunday 24 May. As foreseen in the ledger, the masks were checked after delivery. Samples were taken that were delivered to two laboratories for inspection. The masks are all consistent. The company Avrox delivered 6,724,000 masks and did not respect the contractual delivery period. Samples of these masks were also taken and 267,000 masks were found to be non-compliant. The firm Avrox will do the necessary. The following deliveries of Avrox are scheduled for Thursday 4 June, Saturday 6 June and Sunday 7 June for the following quantities: The quantities are 4 100 000, 1 930 000 and 2 513 000. Compliance tests usually take a two-day period. The delay in delivery by Avrox is mainly due to the late placing of the order by Avrox because, she tells us, she waited for the results of laboratory tests of the samples before placing her order. As you know, the contract provides for fines and a penalty for late delivery. The exact amount of these late fines and penalty is calculated after delivery and at the time of payment of the invoice. To date, all things remaining equal, it can be estimated, depending on whether there will be a penalty or not. I will communicate this specific amount to you with all the usage reserves when the final deliveries have arrived. If the penalty were to be imposed on the basis of the flight plan communicated to us, the penalty and fines package would amount to just over EUR 5 million. But I repeat, it is subject to the actual timetable, and on the basis of the one announced at the moment. This amount will be deducted from the amount payable to the firm. I heard we were going to get money from a company that has very low capital. There is therefore no question of this. You have to be very clear. The amounts due will be deducted from the invoices that will be sent to us. Under no circumstances should Defence ask the firm to pay the amount due. It is an amount that is deducted from the amount of the invoice. This is an important element, which I would like to stress. The delay in delivery does not affect the distribution of masks to the population. The Department of Defense has looked at various possibilities for the distribution of the masks. The only way to distribute them correctly was through the pharmacists. After all, they are the ideal channel in terms of hygiene and to inform people about the use of the masks. The agreements were drawn up last week. The pharmacists and distributors will be reimbursed for this distribution. Defense will supply the major distributors. In turn, they are responsible for the distribution of the masks to the pharmacists, as they do for medicines. At the request of the Public Health Office, masks will be distributed by age group, giving priority to the older population. The distribution to the population planned for mid-June, 15 June to be precise, will be registered by pharmacists. The public will be informed about this. After the distribution, the excess masks will be returned to the government in reverse. In response to Mrs Moscufo, who is not present, the cost of the market for this distribution amounts to EUR 1,365,000, to be distributed between pharmacists and distributors. Mr Bertels, Mr Creyelman, Mr Crombez, Monsieur Bayet, you all had more specific questions about the insinuations in the press about the Luxembourg firm and its administrators. According to the legislation on public contracts, a purchasing service is obliged to examine a number of exclusion grounds, which has also happened. This is the case for the purposes of Articles 67, 68 and 69 of the Law of 17 June 2016. One of the mandatory grounds for exclusion under Article 67 is money laundering and financing. Article 68 deals more specifically with the grounds for exclusion in relation to tax and social debt. Both companies have fulfilled these legal conditions. As far as the persons quoted in the press are concerned, their criminal record was requested. This is blank, which also applies to the firm. I have no reason to launch an investigation. I did not submit an application to the anti-money laundering cell, nor to the Security of the State, nor to the General Intelligence and Security Service. If you would like to know whether an investigation is under way in the anti-money laundering cell or the State's Security, please contact them as they do not fall within my jurisdiction. In any event, no investigation is ongoing with ADIV. As far as the bank whose name has been published in the press is concerned, I have had contact with the Ambassador in Jordan to obtain information on the bank's reputation. I can confirm it's a respected bank. So I see no reason, Mr. Bayet, to believe in the allegations in the press. Mr De Vriendt, you would like more information on the investigation initiated by the Court of Auditors. I can confirm that the Court of Auditors has requested all the offers and that the Defence Staff have delivered them, in a proper manner. Control by the Court of Auditors is still ongoing. I am sure that the Court of Auditors will inform you and your colleagues in good time about the progress of the procurement procedure and that it will make known any shortcomings in the file. Mr. Bayet, Mr. Freilich, Mr. Creyelman, you are interested in following the framework contract after the delivery of the first order. The objective of the framework contract was to be able to respond to a possible new wave of the VOCID-19. The framework agreement that was concluded with Tweeds & Cottons and Avrox will remain in place even after the last delivery, a priori until 31 December 2020, with the possibility of an extension of one year. I remind you that Tweeds & Cottons is a Belgian company that has had the masks produced in China and Vietnam and not in Belgium. To my knowledge, there is no production available in Belgium for such a quantity. It was also not necessary to stop the contract as all masks will be delivered, although it is late. Moreover, it was not possible to reach the requested quantities with the previous firms, even before the end of next week. Additional orders may be placed under this contract if the Council of Ministers or the Prime Ministers of the Communities and the Regions so decides.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for taking the trouble of making a fairly comprehensive assessment of the situation. And thank you for scrupulously answering the questions I asked you; I do not, of course, prejudge the questions asked by my colleagues. I heard that if we were to stop today, the amount would be 5 million deductions from the amount of the invoice, in terms of penalties for Avrox. I understand that and I hope that these penalties will be applied for. For the rest, we can only deplore the delay in these deliveries. Nevertheless, I understand that the pharmacists' option has been chosen by the government. I believe that this option can hold the road if the sector is able to support it. As this decision has been taken in consultation with the sector, I am sure so. We will not fail to follow any other adventures as part of this order of masks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is regrettable that not half of all the masks that Avrox had to deliver have been delivered at the moment. We even hear that some masks aren't consistent. We hope that the timing you are giving today can be maintained. For the further distribution of the masks, it was chosen to work through the pharmacists. I think this is a good proposal because of the quality that pharmacists can deliver. I am curious to see how communication to citizens will be further addressed. I hope that a final system will be developed. In any case, this deserves further follow-up. It is also logical that pharmacists should be reimbursed for this. I am also pleased that this is not being put back into the responsibilities of the local authorities. The municipal authorities have already suffered a lot throughout the corona crisis. They've had to take on a lot of logistics. In my opinion, the fact that this is not included is a good thing. Did I understand correctly, Minister, that Defence will continue to be responsible for the distribution to pharmacists? This means that the responsibility of the Defense Department is increasing. First, it was said that Defense was responsible until delivery in Peutie. I think I understand that responsibility goes even further now? I wonder what responsibilities the Defense Department still has to assume.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u17	Mr Minister, it is a little unusual that 10% of deliveries do not appear to be in conformity. I think this is a serious figure: at 2.7 million there are 267 000 mouth masks that do not meet the conditions. I advise you to check the following orders carefully, in such a way that our people get a community mask and not a patch with which they think they are safe. What remains special in this story is that Minister De Backer already had contacts at the end of March with an East Flemish firm that produces mouth masks itself, but that that case has somehow jumped off. At that time, apparently, they were able to deliver up to 12 million masks, but those calls were stopped. That might be a missed opportunity. Nevertheless, I continue to find it hallucinating that a company is chosen to be a PO Box company and does not deliver on time. Now you say that the government must pay less because it has not been delivered in time. In addition, non-compliant materials are also supplied. Of course, I agree with you on the distribution through pharmacists, but I would also like to nuance it. You say the pharmacists will be reimbursed, but that's only for expenses. If we convert it, the pharmacists get 8 cents per mouth mask to distribute the masks among their patients, to register them, to give individual pharmaceutical advice and to follow up on whether the patients wear the masks properly. In my view, 8 cents is not a fee, but an expense note. I am therefore very grateful to my colleagues for doing so in the interests of public health. It is absolutely a missed chance for the government that in April the deal with the major stores did not go through, so you could have offered every citizen three surgical mouth masks with individual pharmaceutical advice for 1.65 euros. By the end of April, at the first stages of the exit, people would have been protected. It's not like that now. My colleagues take responsibility, they will ensure that the mouth masks reach the patients. However, I must give you something, Minister, about which you must speak with your colleagues. I already talked to Minister De Block about it yesterday. In the next phase, we need vaccination. I hope that all of you in the government will appreciate the professionalism of the pharmacists.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u18	Mr President, I would just like to say that Mrs Depoorter says that 10% of the masks are not in conformity. In fact, it is only 3.9 %. That is an important element that everyone must know.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u19	Mr President, Minister, I am a satisfied man for the following reason. Unless I am mistaken, you have answered virtually all my questions without reservation. First of all, I remember from your answers that you will effectively invoke the penalty clauses for the sanctions and that you have no scruples to apply them. At the moment, it amounts to about EUR 5 million, with some reservations, if I have understood correctly. Secondly, I am relieved that you will charge the amount on the invoice that will be paid and that you will not wait until you have paid the invoice, to afterwards try to recover a portion. To see our pennies once again, that is a much more intelligent approach. Finally, I am somewhat sorry that you have not carried out or will not have carried out an investigation. After all, you must look at this investigation on two sides. An investigation is not only an opportunity for the maledited opposition to prove your wrong or your faults. It is also an opportunity for you to remove all possible suspicions expressed in the media. Finally, Minister, there is one point I would like to make. You speak of a bank with a reputation that, to put it in your language, is impeccable. I suspect that Israel has a different view on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, although it is not an answer. That's why I said earlier in the chat what a silly saga this is becoming. You're all supposed to be competent for the mouth masks, but when we ask questions, suddenly no one is competent. I asked a simple question. Has the meeting of the National Security Council asked why face shields were not considered? I think it is clear, after all the speeches made by my fellow Members, that you have made mouth masks of these substances a soup. Maybe it would be interesting if one of you took responsibility. I have always submitted my questions correctly. I'm gonna ask Secretary De Block a question. He's referring to Minister De Backer. Minister De Backer refers to Minister Geens. Minister Geens refers again to Minister De Backer. And now you're referring to all your other colleagues. I can conclude that no one is authorized and no one is responsible for the mouth masks. Looks like it. Because again, the last time I checked, there were still none on the bus. I wonder why we pay taxes and why six of you are competent for something as important as the protection of our people, while the result is totally lacking. I really don't think that's possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u21	Minister, first of all, allow me to apologize to you. In times of containment, parliamentarians are called upon to attend several meetings at the same time by videoconference. So I couldn't hear the whole of your answer that seemed to me long and complete. So I'll take the time to read it. However, I have heard that you prefer the path of pharmacists, which I believe is a good thing. Indeed, we have been able to count on them since the beginning of the crisis. So it's good to put them in the spotlight. I hope that you will organize this at best by taking the time so as not to end up, on the first day, facing chaos in all pharmacies with people who do not know where to go and whether they can actually receive a mask or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u22	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive review. I would also like to thank you for having answered all my questions with precision. We finally opt for the pharmacy channel, which is a good thing. However, I continue to have concerns about communication and organization on the ground. I count on you, of course, to ensure that this is done in the most effective way and in compliance with the rules in terms of distancing and hygiene. As has already been said, care must also be taken not to overburden the already busy local authorities. As my colleague has said, Defence's responsibility seems to have been broadened. I see no problem because, in my opinion, it has the logistical and personnel capabilities. Furthermore, it is important that it can help in this kind of context. As has already been mentioned on several occasions here, this is a matter of assistance to the Nation. Thank you, once again, for your current situation and your always very precise answers. I look forward to hearing from you about the implementation of this distribution that should take place in the coming days, hoping it will be organized effectively and proactively.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your very complete and honest answer. This mask saga is not very glorious for our country. We're not the only ones, but I have to say we've been strong. Three different ministers have worked on this, each time with very serious difficulties. I didn't understand exactly what age range these masks were going to be for. On April 27, we were talking about children, and we know today that they are no longer concerned with the recommendation of wearing the mask. The budget of EUR 1 360 000 which will be allocated to pharmacies seems to me to be really inadequate. I ask you to reconsider this decision, Minister. Eight cents per mask, with the administration, the seriousness and the time it takes, is not enough. There must be substantial compensation for pharmacists. They have been on the front line throughout this epidemic, and the budgetary effort must be commensurate with the effort we are going to ask them to do. Then I will retain this amount of at least EUR 5 million in penalties, if the masks arrive on the dates you mentioned. That's good news for the Treasury, but I think they'll be very late. Perhaps they will still be useful in the event of a resurgence of the epidemic next winter. I hope that we will then have the stocks and opportunities to see coming in the coming months. However, we can only deplore this discrepancy between the seriousness of the epidemic and the fact that these masks only arrive now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u24	Minister, I understand from your attitude that you have something to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u25	Mr President, I would like to reply very briefly to Mr Dallemagne on something on which I may not have been sufficiently specific. The distribution will be done in a very orderly system by age category, to avoid an influx too large initially. We are putting in place a process, a communication to allow our citizens to pick up their masks in pharmacies, in the best possible conditions. So there is a system related to the age of people with days that will be defined initially. Then, of course, people will be able to come, regardless of their age. Mr Dallemagne, as you mentioned, the Defence received this mission on 27 April 2020. It's early June. I must point out to you the work done by the Defence Services to complete this contract. Let me remind you that, finally, six weeks later, we will have 18 million masks. I think the feat is also important to report, especially the work done by the defence services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u26	Mr Minister, I would like to come back to the point about which you said that you checked information on the Cairo Amman bank at the embassy in Jordan. You'll have to check in Israel. I understand that there were objections or that the bank might be blacklisted. Anyway, that's a detail. The most important thing I learned today is that there were 6.7 million masks delivered by Avrox. A little less than 4% of them are not in conformity. That's a lot of them. At the other company Tweeds & Cottons everything appears to be consistent. This 4% percentage is likely to have been obtained by carrying out a number of samples. This means that there may be more masks that are not in conformity. That is why I am asking for a very clear check to be made on a large number of masks, how many of them are not in conformity. I have the numbers here that Avrox gave me at the award. They reported that they could deliver 22.9 million pieces by week. By week 23 they can deliver 25.5 million masks. Right now, we're at less than 6.7 million. It's very clear to me. We're dealing here with liars and impostors. How can we say that a total of 49.5 million masks can be delivered on today's date if we see that we are currently making 6.7 million. I'm just finding that we've got a good bite. They're laughing at us and you, Minister. That is why I would like to introduce the following. Stop the award on today's day. With the 200 000 masks that have been rejected, we have 6.5 million masks from Avrox. Then there are the 3 million of Tweeds & Cottons. That brings the total to 9.5 million. Today there are 11 million Belgians, of whom at least 1 million are under 12 years of age who do not need a mask, and a very large number of others who will never come to pick up the masks. So I find that there are enough masks today to beg to the people who need them. I find Avrox is laughing with you and us. Every week it's something else. First, the masks would arrive in time. Then it would be a week later. Then an extra week later. What will it be next week? Of course, you signed a contract and you can't easily get out of it, I understand that. It is not so much my intention here to attack you personally and make life difficult for you. I want to help and have a very nice idea for that. Avrox had to deposit a deposit of 5%, to be paid within 30 days. Tomorrow is 30 days after the award. Last month there were 31 days. If it turns out that the deposit is not yet in place, I suppose it is, I understand that from previous committees, then you also have an element to stop the contract today. You can say to Avrox: thank you, but we don't need masks anymore. What you then achieve is that, if you need extra masks, you can negotiate with Belgian firms. The most important thing is that this is also a saving for the Belgian taxpayer. Again, we already have 9.5 million masks in Belgium today. That's what I'm asking you to do. I hope this is possible. I would like to be constructive and to assist you as closely as possible. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u27	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we must be a little harsh on this supplier. It may be that he supplied a number of goods too late, with the calculation of the penalty clause in mind and the hope of getting out of it. Suppose a mouth mask costs two euros and 10 million have to be delivered. Then the turnover is 20 million euros. If three euros are now requested for a mouth mask, the turnover is thirty million euros. That is EUR 10 million more than the current price. The supplier states that he will be late anyway, with a fine of EUR 5 million. He can deduct this fine from his turnover. This creates an excess profit of five million euros. It is good that the penalty clause is immediately withheld from billing, but I would still be strict. I might not, as some colleagues suggest, stop everything, but let everything be delivered and at some point enter into discussion with this supplier. Then it should be asked whether the supplier knew in advance that he was not going to deliver on time. This has indeed treated other Belgian producers unfairly, who may have been a piece of justice when the demand came and are therefore eliminated. Maybe it can't be proven, but we still have to go to some kind of deal with this supplier. A serious concession must be sought from the supplier for what is happening here. There is also a lesson to be learned here about how to arm yourself against people who are not in good faith. I feel that this could be an example of this. The supplier seems to have used a particular purchasing clause in a certain way to make quick profit. I would advise the army's legal advisers to be very strict in this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u28	The Minister is available until 5.30 p.m. This means that we can ask a number of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u29	Mr President, my question is in the context of NATO. Minister, as you know, I am also trying to deal with the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Those meetings are all digital, too. It's more fun through physical encounters, but it's what it is. Many initiatives are also being developed within NATO, in which NATO ambassadors come together to develop details of military operation plans. NATO will also purchase more personal protective equipment and medicines for the alliance through a support and purchasing agency. In the long term, she will develop a Pandemic Response Contingency Plan. My questions are as follows. First, Defence is active within the government's COVID-19 task force and uses the NATO Supply and Procurement Agency (NSPA) for the first time. What order was it? How do you assess the cooperation? Secondly, can you give more information on NATO's new plans and their objectives? Will the focus be on building up stocks or more own production capacity within the alliance? Thirdly, how do you see the national strategy for the purchase of resources and the creation of strategic stocks fit within the larger NATO framework? Will she be subordinate to the alliance's plans? Will certain demands be made on our country, similar to military rescue plans? Fourthly, NATO intends to extend its role as a major central player in virus management, partly in competition with the European Union, which also wants to play a greater coordinating role. How can we help to streamline the coherence between the plans of the various organisations? The pandemic exposes the strategic dependence of the alliance of countries such as China or Vietnam on the supply of medical supplies. What proposals are contained in NATO's plans to improve and, of course, shorten supply chains, as well as to reduce China's dependence during and after the crisis? Minister, the latter is of course very important geopolitical and military. I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u30	Mr Francken, in recent weeks, NSPA has purchased over 18 tonnes of protective equipment for several NATO Member States as part of the fight against the spread of the corona virus. The orders launched by Belgium through the NSPA concern FFP2 masks, surgical masks, face shields, gloves, aprons and fans. Cooperation will only be able to be assessed when all goods have been delivered in accordance with the required requirements. At the last meeting of Foreign and Defence Ministers, the impact of COVID-19 was discussed and recommendations from NATO members on improving resilience and a better plan for addressing pandemics, with greater protection for critical industries and business continuity plans, to be prepared against the July ministerial meeting. In the context of a possible second wave of contagion, an action plan was drawn up at the request of the Foreign Ministers. It is currently being examined by the Member States to also offer it for approval at the July meeting. The construction of strategic stocks is a responsibility of the FPS Public Health. Only afterwards can a registration be studied in a broader NATO approach. NATO coordinates the comprehensive approach to the crisis, working with various international organisations, including the European Union. So there is already an increased interaction with the European Union. The allies also agree that good coordination and greater cooperation between the two organisations are necessary to combat the pandemic. Coordination between NATO and the EU is not new. There are structures that allow consultation in different areas. Belgium is in favour of increased NATO-EU cooperation and supports the initiatives taken in this area. In the field of medical supply chains, NATO has already strengthened its framework in 2019. The Civil Emergency Planning Committee is currently carrying out an evaluation, taking into account what we have already learned from this crisis. It should be completed by the summer. At the Belgian level, the National Crisis Centre will bring together the various federal and regional stakeholders and implement, on the basis of the NATO framework, the necessary improvements that should lead to greater strategic independence of countries such as China.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u31	Mr President, I am in parallel with a debate on Brussels Airlines in the Committee on Finance and Budget. It's worth it. Thank you, Minister. I understand that we are fully participating in NATO's tender and have therefore also ordered face shields and FFP2 masks and the like. An evaluation is still to be carried out. We are also participating in the Pandemic Readiness Plan, which is coordinated by the National Security Council and the Crisis Centre together with Defence, I understand from your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u32	Minister, between 18 and 27 October the seventh Military World Games took place in Wuhan, China. About 10,000 athletes from 109 countries participated in these Olympic games for the military. Our Defence also signed with 51 athletes and a support team, which resulted in three medals for the delegation and a 28th place in the country classification. A fine achievement, which would normally pass unnoticed earlier, was it not that Wuhan would become known as the epicentre of the COVID-19 outbreak a few months later and scientists placed the earliest possible starting point of the pandemic already on 6 October. Feed enough for online conspiracy theories, which even Chinese diplomats venture upon, but which, after statements by French and Italian participants about their illness during and after the games, is more faithful. In order to separate fact and fiction, I would like to ask the following questions, Minister. Did the Belgian participants develop similar disease symptoms during or in the weeks following their visit to the military games in Wuhan? Is it possible to find traces of infection now and, if so, has the Belgian delegation been tested for COVID-19 or have serological tests already been carried out? Has there been a similar investigation of their athletes in NATO's participating countries? If so, are there any signs of infections during the games?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u33	Mr President, Minister, as Mr Francken's introduction has shown, this suggests that the virus was already occurring much earlier than the Chinese government would later admit. That's why I'm happy to ask you the following questions. Firstly, how many Belgian soldiers participated in these games? Secondly, did they develop COOVID-19 related complaints during or after participation? Thirdly, has there been an investigation into this? If so, in what context did this happen? National or NATO? Fourthly, how did our NATO partners deal with this? Could you give me a little more explanation about that? Did they run any tests? Did she know about contagion?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, none of the 71 members of the Belgian delegation showed worrying symptoms during their stay in Wuhan from 13 to 29 October 2019 or in the weeks following their return. Three members of the Belgian delegation announced last week that they might have had symptoms of COOVID-19 after this issue appeared in the press. They were tested, but the result was negative. Probably had another viral infection. Other countries such as Sweden, France and Spain are now also conducting an internal investigation, as soldiers reported that they had flu symptoms. In Italy, a military athlete claims to have been infected in Wuhan. Defence has put the question to NATO partners, but so far no link can be established between soldiers with flu symptoms and their whereabouts in Wuhan.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. That's obvious. We will await the latest investigations, but so far that is a false alarm. All the better.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Where there is smoke, there is fire, according to a Flemish saying. I am not so easily reassured when it comes to the communication of the Chinese People's Republic. I do, of course, believe that NATO has carried out research and that, fortunately, little or no COOVID-19-related complaints have been identified. We can only speak with justice if we ask for an international investigation into the root cause of the virus. There may be irregularities in the future, a list of which already exists.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u37	Minister, it has been a busy week at European level. On 12 May there was a conference on the implications of COOVID-19 for security and defence. The following day there was a meeting of the European Union Military Committee. The agenda included streamlining the exchange of information and assessing the impact on Common Security and Defence Policy operations. After all, the crisis has also had an impact on the solidarity, response capacity, preparedness and capabilities of European defence. However, the main task of Ministers would be to take stock of the strategic implications for European security and defence. There is a justified concern that, in parallel with the 2008 financial crisis, substantial savings in the defence budgets of the Member States will again follow. Mr Minister, my question dates from 10 May. Unfortunately, we got some negative messages in the press. What views did you take to the exercise on the strategic balance? Where do you see major EU work areas in maintaining or strengthening its post-COVID-19 security position? Do you think that there should be a revision or revision of PESCO and other European programmes in response to the corona crisis, to see where additional reinforcement is needed and what the ripple effects of savings in the defence budget of the Member States could be? Before the crisis, the EDF was partly the child of the account in the proposals of the multiannual financial framework for 2021-2027. Now that the EU is planning its long-term strategy from the crisis with an MFF adjustment, defence risks once again not being on the priority list. Will you insist on a stronger European position with space for defence in its budgets after the crisis? NATO Secretary General Stoltenberg is also taking part in the debates. Since the crisis, NATO and the EU have been trying to play their role in coordinating the common response, always for the time being in coordination and complementarity. Do you feel a tension between the EU and NATO when it comes to combating pandemics? Which organisation do you think should take the leading role in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u38	At the meeting of the European Council of Foreign and Defence Ministers on 12 May, the strategic impact of the COOVID-19 pandemic in the field of security and defence was discussed. Five important points were raised. Firstly, the importance of drawing the necessary lessons from the crisis was discussed in order to increase our resilience so that we can better deal with future pandemics and other civil crises. Secondly, the need to follow up the security impact of the crisis in the countries and regions of particular interest to the European Union was discussed. Thirdly, the need to have the appropriate military structure at European level, which our EU military mission can manage in such a crisis environment, came on the table. Fourthly, the need to address the crisis in an integrated way was addressed, with military capabilities supporting civilian crisis management. Fifth, the need to tackle such a world crisis was considered in close cooperation with partners. The COOVID-19 crisis may lead to a new package of capacitor needs for our armed forces. This could lead to more cooperation projects, for example in a PESCO framework. The budgetary impact of COVID-19 will also be felt at European level. It is important that the current momentum of more common European cooperation, including in the case of projects in the security domain, is maintained and that the budgetary resources committed are made available, inter alia, to EDF. The COOVID-19 crisis creates additional opportunities for enhanced EU-NATO cooperation to support the civilian crisis. Both organisations have a specific approach in the current crisis. Coordination between the two organisations is progressing well. For the integrated management of a civil crisis in Europe, it is clear that the European Union has a very wide range of instruments to tackle such a crisis multidimensionally.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u39	Thank you for clarifying our position, Minister. Since the end of the Cold War, there has always been a decline in defence budgets. Each crisis led to the re-emergence of defence money. I'm holding my heart. I also refer to the communication after the European meetings on the reduction of budgets for European defence projects. So we have to be on our guard. I hope that the current crisis will not turn defence into the child of the account again and that defence will not be spared again. We are in any case in favour of continuing to invest heavily in defence. We have left with a catch-up operation in the area of capabilities. I hope that, despite the crisis, we will be able to work on this in the next few years, including the financial crisis that we are facing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u40	Minister, with the decreasing trend in the number of COVID-19 victims and hospitalisations, the focus of the deployment of Defence also changes somewhat towards keeping support capacity and aftercare ready. Foreign and domestic missions continue to be at the best of their ability, with, of course, the restrictions imposed by the fight against the virus. The weekly review that Defence provides Parliament with answers to most of our questions. In the meantime, we have received reports on the basis of the report of 5 May 2020. Firstly, what capacity does the DOD intend to maintain or strengthen in the coming weeks and months with a view to a second wave of the virus? Secondly, the emphasis is placed on teleworking. Military personnel must maintain their physical readiness at home. Training is given by computer. Should the staff provide proof of these trainings via Tracking or Strava or something like that or through participation in courses? Is that monitored by the Department of Defense? Thirdly, a permanent cell is established within the Defence Operations Centre for everything related to COVID-19, such as sick people, support and measures. Who's gonna direct the cell? In addition to gathering information, does the cell also have a steering capacity within the organisation? Fourthly, rotations of foreign missions are carried out as well as possible according to the original schedule. At the request of the United Nations, NATO and the European Union, the upcoming detachment for departure to the deployment area had to be placed under insulation for a period. What are the costs of organising that hotel isolation for the Defense Department? How does this quarantine affect the decompression planned for military personnel returning from a development, for example, from Mali? Finally, and fifthly, 15 residential care centres are currently being supported. In the meantime, of course, these figures have evolved. The contract has been terminated for 16 other centres. Seventy centers received an evaluation visit from the DOD's medical units. Minister, do you see a more permanent role for Defence during the further duration of the pandemic, or will it be taken over by Health itself? Sixthly, this question has not really been given in advance, but it refers to the debate just now on the use of Defence for the further spread of the mouth masks. It may be useful to consider this further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u41	Mr President, Defence is always ready for tasks of help to the nation, while at the same time continuing its operational tasks and trying to safeguard its expeditional capacity. The favourable evolution of the situation allows the ongoing assignments of aid to the nation to be phased out. As has recently been shown again, capacity reactivation can happen quickly, always at the request of the government and within the possibilities. Every soldier is responsible for maintaining his basic condition permanently. Staff shall not provide evidence of physical training during the period of telework. The annual assessment of the basic condition will in principle be carried out in the military environment by 15 December 2020, if the security situation permits. There is no tracking of physical training because this could involve a security incident. The so-called e-Learning is followed. Forms with physical presence within Defense will be restarted and gradually launched from May 18th. Within the Defence Operations Centre, a permanent cell was established for the follow-up to this crisis. The Corona Coordination and Information Centre is controlled by the understaff Chief of Operation and Training. This cell centralises all information and coordinates all COVID-19-related activities. The additional costs for the Defense Department, linked to the isolation at hotel and lodging, are on site. A decompensation axis is not systematically organised and is planned on the basis of needs. The decompensation axis for military returning from Mali, scheduled for the end of March, was abolished due to the COOVID conditions. The decompensation axis is currently replaced by an individual follow-up after return from an operating area. Psychosocial support is therefore still provided, but adapted to the special circumstances. Support for residential care centres will be terminated a priori on 7 June. The medical component is necessary to support the operations and will resume its core tasks as soon as possible. Of course, this capacity also remains available to the nation, if this need arises.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for the detail. The corona crisis affects society as a whole, including the Defense Department. I would like to use this forum once again to pay tribute to all the boys and girls of Defense for the important role they have played and are still playing in the fight against the coronavirus. We have just debated the role of defence in the face masks. Our opinion on this is without prejudice to the appreciation of the N-VA for the important work done daily by the boys and girls of Defense on the ground. I would also like to thank you once again for the overview that we receive every week so that we have a good idea of what Defence is doing in the fight against the corona virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u43	Mr. Secretary, you had to leave at 5:30 p.m. Can we take a few more questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u44	Mr President, my questions are still on the agenda, but I can live perfectly with them if they are converted into written questions and the answer can be added to the report today. Otherwise, we will continue to hold committee meetings here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u45	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Francken's 55006669C was converted into a written question. Mr Francken, your question No. 55006670C was merged with question No. 55006501C by Mr Mahdi. I'll see if he agrees to turn them into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u46	Mr President, I do not like to be difficult, but I would prefer to keep this question as an oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u47	Debates of the European Parliament 55006670C by Mr Francken and 55006501C by Mr Mahdi will be held at a forthcoming meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u48	Mr President, can I read the answer to the converted question in the report?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u49	Yes, the Minister is committed to that. Debates of the European Parliament 55006033C and 55006039C by Mrs Chanson will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u50	Mr President, my questions are as follows: 55006028C and 55006029C may be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u51	Mr President, oral questions are converted into written questions. I assume they will be answered by the services, but they will not be included in this report. That would be a precedent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u52	No, the answer will be given to the Member concerned. It shall not be added to the report. You are right, Mrs Ponthier. I'm recapitulating. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55006028C and 55006029C by Mr Freilich, 55006033C and 55006039C by Mrs Chanson and 55006669C by Mr Francken are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u53	Mr Minister, the American aircraft manufacturer Pratt & Whitney would have informed his partners that there may be a health problem in the use of his engines, after toxic residues of chromium 6 have been found, possibly caused by high combustion temperatures. The manufacturer will carry out further research into the potential source and intensity of pollution. After receiving the message, the Dutch Air Force temporarily stopped the maintenance work and now resumed it with additional security measures. Did the DOD get a similar message from the firm? Multiple DOD devices, such as F-16 and C-130, use those engines. Do you know which models may pose a risk? Does the DOD take any additional protective measures? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u54	Mr Buysrogge, Defence was informed in mid-April 2020 of the findings made by the company Pratt & Whitney regarding the possible formation of chromium 6 residue in very specific parts of the engines of the F-16. The C-130 has no Pratt & Whitney engines. The aircraft Falcon 7X is equipped with Pratt & Whitney engines, but Defence is not responsible for its maintenance. Only Safran, the manufacturer of the NH90 engines, received similar information. All units concerned were immediately informed of the findings. All necessary protective measures, such as the wearing of personal protection, were clarified in the case of work in potentially contaminated areas. Defence is in contact with manufacturers to correctly monitor the results of the further analyses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic195x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for the clear answer.
