ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u1	Welcome to everyone. Before starting the session, I would like to make a small reminder, because there is confusion about oral questions and written questions. I think it is appropriate, both for the minister and for our members, to clarify things so that there is no misunderstanding. There are oral questions and there are written questions. I start with the basics: we don't deal with the questions written here. These are written questions, which are answered in writing within a certain period of time (five days or a month, I don't know anymore). Here we are talking about oral questions. To address them, there are only four solutions. First of all, the member is present and asks the question. The minister is then obliged to reply, very long or very briefly, it is his choice. Second, the member may request that the matter be deferred. He can do that once. Of course, it is automatically postponed if we do not reach the end of the list. Third, if the member is absent and the question is not asked, the question becomes irrelevant and will therefore never be answered. In the fourth case, the member may request that his or her oral question be turned into a written question. We are then in the procedure of written questions. When questions are joined or in the context of a topical debate, all questions must be dealt with in the same way. So when questions are attached, you can't ask one and postpone the other. Nor can we ask one and turn the other into a written question. Members must agree either to postpone them all or to turn them all into written questions. As soon as one of the questions is asked, the others, if not asked, become irrelevant. Sometimes the minister proposes to send the answer to an oral question in writing, Ms. De Block has often done so. That's good, but it brings us out of procedure. The report will take up only as a reply from the minister "I am sending you the answer". It is impossible for the secretariat to monitor the exchange of e-mails between the minister and members. Of course, it is always useful to have a longer or more documentation response from the firm, but then we are out of order. The secretariat still insists that I make it clear that once the question is asked, it is considered to be answered. Whether the answer is long or short, whether you are satisfied with the answer or not, it does not change it. It is considered to be answered. Is that clear to everyone? Because there was some confusion at times. Today, we have a topical debate on the flu vaccine with thirteen questions in this debate. Then there is still a long list of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u2	Mr. Secretary, you didn't have another appointment that would make you leave at 6:00?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u3	I have to stop at 6:00 at the latest, but I'm gonna miss a few things. Shall we agree to stop at 5:00?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u4	I'd have gotten some other information, but we'll stop at 17:00. We'll see how far we can get.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u5	The planning has indeed changed. These are hectic times.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that, in a topical debate, the questioners are given two minutes' speaking time. The minister's basically got five minutes, but I'm gonna make this ten minutes. Minister, if you need a little more time, you will, because there are 13 questions. After that, each member will have two minutes of reply time. A member of a political group who would not have tabled a question will also be given two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u7	Mr Minister, my first question is without object, since it was about collecting a flu vaccine from the pharmacist without prescription. At the time the information was disseminated to the public, the royal decree had not yet been published, causing a great deal of confusion for both pharmacists and general practitioners, but I understand that you have already done some work and that the royal decree was published on 5 October, for which I thank you. I have also heard that two thirds of the flu vaccines would have already been distributed. However, from discussions with pharmacists and citizens, I would point out that many vulnerable groups are unfortunately not eligible for these flu vaccines. Either they are on the waiting list, or they get very few answers on the premises, which makes them very concerned. Corona also creates extra fear. Minister, are there at present enough vaccines for all priority groups? If not, will we then start with a reservation system so that the most vulnerable could be the most eligible? Of course, I would have liked to have seen that happen a lot earlier. How binding do you see the advice on priority groups to the general practitioners? After all, I notice on the ground that a lot of general practitioners are laxer and also perfectly healthy young people give a prescription. How will you ensure that at-risk patients belonging to the target groups receive a vaccine as soon as possible? Are you planning any information campaigns? The peak of the flu season usually falls in the second week of January, so there is still some time for information campaigns. Is that what you're planning on doing? In what way will you do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u8	Since there are thirteen questions and speakers have two minutes per question, it seems to me advisable not to start with an introduction every time. This is how we avoid repetition. It is true that there is no obligation to use the two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u9	I'll handle my questions together. According to a KB negotiated by Mrs De Block at the last minute, flu vaccines can be collected and reimbursed at the pharmacy. Firstly, why is it based on the old pandemic law and was the measure limited in time? I have tabled a legislative proposal to allow the flu vaccine to be collected and paid back directly by the patients at risk in the pharmacy over the next few years, and to apply the scheme to the COVID-19 vaccine. I'd like to have your opinion on that. Secondly, our colleague pointed out that 2 million vaccines have been delivered. Of the million vaccines that are still on the way, most of them are still in France and England, while some of them are reported to be delivered on 5 November 2020. So the vaccines are ready. So an export ban was issued in our country. How do the neighbouring countries react to this? Have you been in contact with them? Can we be sure that the vaccines will also be exported effectively to our country? There's no certainty about that at the moment. Mr Farih said that general practitioners also prescribe the vaccine to non-risk patients. The problem is wider than that. The occupational health services do not register who they are vaccination. Do you have a visual on that? Last summer I discussed with Mrs De Block that she should impose enforceable measures so that the vaccines effectively reach the patients who are entitled to them, namely those at risk. There are 4 million patients at risk, while only 2.9 million have been ordered. How will you deal with this? How can we prevent too many people from being vaccinated who do not actually belong to a risk group?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u10	Mr Minister, the previous speakers have already mentioned that an export ban is being imposed in Belgium for the flu vaccine. Rumor has it that there would not be enough vaccines before the coming flu season. However, I had asked for this a few times, but that was always denied. Although 10% more vaccines were purchased and the previous Minister of Health maintained that there was no problem with the vaccines at all, the message of course suggests the opposite. How many flu vaccines are in stock in the end? Will that supply be enough to cover the flu season? How does the flu vaccination go compared to previous years? Is there an increasing demand for vaccinations, for example? Are there any vaccines for the flu season in spring 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u11	Mr President, I will avoid repeating what has already been said. Minister, as of October 6, 2020, 36% of available vaccines had been provided to pharmacies and 10% of their stocks had been delivered to pharmacies. Yet some pharmacies are already out of stock. So, do you have the assurance today that we will have enough influenza vaccines? Will all those at risk who wish to be vaccinated be able to do so? How does the distribution of vaccines take place between different pharmacies, when they will be restocked, and how can they be avoided? How can we ensure that occupational physicians – in particular – follow the prescription recommendations for risk groups and the sequential approach?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u12	Minister, indeed, many pharmacy clients are desperate because it is impossible for them to obtain an influenza vaccine or to be assured of getting one in the near future. Nor will I repeat my colleagues' questions. As I understand it, the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products tells us that between 2 and 3 million doses ordered would have been delivered, but only 1 million of these vaccines would have actually been delivered to patients in pharmacy. Thus, there are currently 1 million vaccines that we are unable to locate. Is that correct? According to one of the theory envisaged, these vaccines were handed over to the occupational health services, who had already vaccinated people who did not belong to the risk groups. Similarly, according to the Apache website, some football clubs would have vaccines for their players, i.e. healthy people. Several similar testimonies come back to pharmacists. Moreover, why did you or your predecessor order 2.9 million vaccines? In your opinion, is this number not insufficient? Where does this figure come from? Indeed, if all risk groups were to be vaccinated, we would have about 4.5 million patients in Belgium. Don't you think the actual demand for vaccines has been underestimated? Finally, how do you intend to proceed today? Many general practitioners have been forced to post-vaccination sessions. Do you intend to deliver vaccines to anyone from 15 November, for example, as long as these vaccines are available? What do you intend to do so that the remaining million vaccines can actually be delivered? What do you intend to do so that as many people at risk can be vaccinated against influenza this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u13	Mr President, Minister, a lot has been said. Indeed, you have, via arrest, permitted the prescription by the pharmacists. A million doses are still to be distributed at the end of October. That being said, there are signs of shortage on the ground, particularly on the side of the officiaries. In addition, you will certainly also have been questioned by the Belgian Pharmaceutical Association, launched a few days ago, calling for a delay in the vaccination of people between the ages of 50 and 64. The problem is crucial, especially since one could have a peak of influenza at the same time as the wave of VOCID-19, which is the scenario to be avoided in order to minimize complications and hospitalizations. Mr. Minister, could you give us an update on the existing stocks and the vaccines still to be distributed on the side of the officiaries? Will the full and complete recommendations of the Supreme Council of Health be very clearly respected, that is, not only to vaccinate caregivers and people at risk, but also – and this is important because of the VOCID-19 – people living under the same roof and people at risk, as well as the 50-64 age group? Finally, on the occupational medicine side, with the administration of the vaccine at the company level, have you made sure that the recommendations of the Supreme Council of Health are respected and that the influenza vaccine is not given priority outside these categories? What is crucial is that all those who should benefit from it on the basis of the recommendations can actually be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u14	Mr President, Minister, I will not repeat what my colleagues have already said. What matters to me is to have a clear view of the state of the controls. I would like to know what can still be delivered. I would also like to receive assurances about these deliveries and to know the dates of these deliveries. On the other hand, can you tell me, minister, if after November 15, groups that are not at risk will have access to the vaccine? Will GSK, which continues to export abroad, be able to deliver additional doses if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u15	Mr President, I would like to comment on the opinion of the High Health Council. From 15 October onwards, priority would be given to vaccination of the risk groups and from 15 November onwards to the others. I get the impression that I hope my impression is wrong - that this chronology has been interpreted quite literally and that a number of companies are already ready to give vaccines to the non-risk groups from 15 November, while it was the intention to inoculate as many risk patients as possible this month. I hope you can provide us with information to prove otherwise, particularly that we are now vaccinate as many patients at risk as possible. What remains can then be used in the companies for the non-risk patients. That is how I have always understood it, but it seems as if it is interpreted chronologically by a number of companies and not as first the risk groups and what remains for the company doctors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u16	Mr President, I think that in the context of the situation, the essential thing is to obtain the answers of the Minister. To facilitate our work, I refer to the written text of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u17	Of course, Minister, I will not repeat myself. Firstly, we must constantly read and hear that there is still a substantial part of the flu vaccines that should have been delivered to our country. On the other hand, we might also have to deal with a milder flu season, because there is less transmission of other viruses thanks to the corona measures. How do you estimate the current shortage of pharmacies and how will that evolve? Secondly, I had already checked with your predecessor, Mrs De Block, about her attitude to the injection of flu vaccines by pharmacists, to relieve the burden on the doctors and not to allow at-risk patients to roam in two places. She then referred to an opinion of the Academy of Medicine, which had yet to be studied. How do you feel about that idea? Do you know what direction it might go?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u18	Mr Minister, we know that Belgium has ordered three million doses of influenza vaccine and so far only one third of these three million doses have been delivered to pharmacies. I'm not hiding from you that I'm being arrested every day by people who can't find them anymore, who are looking for them all over the drugstores. It is clear that phasing exists to avoid shortage for the most at risk patients, but it is a big problem. So my questions are as follows. Could you give me an overview of the orders placed by the Belgian State, since the demand is exploding? When will the last two thirds of the three million doses be finally available? Which companies are selected as suppliers? Can you, even if it is difficult today to guarantee anything, ensure that an influenza vaccine will be available to all the most vulnerable people who really need to be vaccinated this winter? I'm not telling you that here in the area, it's really the flu vaccine race. The Arabic phone works. People who have found one in a pharmacy inform others, who are rushing... This is really a rather special and still anxious situation. Given the health crisis we are experiencing today, this adds to the anxiety that is already very present.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u19	I thank the members for their conciseness.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u20	There is indeed a lot of unrest in pharmacists or in people who want to reserve the vaccine at the pharmacist's. I also notice this in my own environment. That unrest is being reinforced by both of them. My services say that the situation is actually under control, as far as the final result we want to achieve is concerned. Nevertheless, there is a lot of unrest. I shall first give the figures that have been asked. There are three companies involved: GSK, Milan and Sanofi. They together made available 2 964 854 vaccines, rounded off 2 965,000 vaccines. The question is, is this enough? We can make a comparison with an estimate of the number of people who received a flu vaccine in 2018. That estimate was made by the Knowledge Centre. This has been considered by the target groups that the High Health Council has now identified for categories A and B, for this vaccination wave, in 2018. Then it was a group of 2 159 941 people, rounded up 2 160 000. When comparing the available quantity of 2 960,000 vaccines with the 2018 calculation, i.e. 2 160 000 people from the corresponding group that received the vaccine, this means that we can increase the vaccination rate by 37%. We can do much more than in 2018. I do know that there is more sensitisation today and a safety margin needs to be taken. That is why it is said that the 2 960 000 vaccines should suffice. Personally, I think the tension is coming because the deliveries are coming in reasonably well. People are told by the pharmacist that the vaccines have not yet arrived. It creates uncertainty. Mrs Reuter pointed out that people often go to another pharmacist. As a result, the pressure becomes twice as great and one finds themselves in a vicious circle of fear and uncertainty, both in the pharmacists and in the people. For a state of affairs on what has already been delivered, I give a number of figures. According to the figures of 12 October, 1,937,718 vaccines have already arrived at the marketing authorisation holders Sanofi, Mylan and GSK. So 65% has arrived. Many of them have already been distributed to wholesalers, distributors and pharmacists, namely 1,652.000 vaccines. Of the total number of vaccines provided, 56% has already been distributed to wholesalers, distributors and pharmacists. What remains of the companies and has not yet arrived at the wholesalers, distributors and pharmacists is not so much, about 8% of the total quantity. The FAGG continues to follow that up. It is planned that the contract will be fully honoured and that approximately 1,000,000 doses will still have to be sent to the licence holders. Mrs Farih was kind enough to say that her question has already been answered. The decision to remove the vaccine directly has been taken. Mrs Depoorter has asked why this is not always done, if it is such a good idea. That is a sensible question, and I do not immediately have an answer to it. The previous government has arranged this for this wave, ad hoc. We can indeed ask ourselves whether this is open to generalisation. We will undoubtedly ask ourselves this question when the COOVID-19 vaccine is available. We hope, of course, that the population will be massively inoculated. Mrs Depoorter, you also mentioned the problem of export restrictions that could occur in France. That would be completely against European regulation. I'm assuming this isn't gonna happen. This is completely contrary to the basic rules governing the European internal market. In my preparation I find nothing about that, but that is my spontaneous reaction to what you say. Of course, that is not possible at all. Then we will immediately go to the European Commission and charge France with the infringement. What has happened, in my opinion, is that people were sensitized to go to the pharmacist, where they are told that it is not all there yet. They may go to another pharmacist if they are uneasy. The pharmacists are also worried about whether the delivery will come. We have no indication that this will not be the case. If the initial assessment of the available quantity is correct, this should ultimately be done well and there is no reason to be fundamentally concerned. Questions have been asked about the companies. I'll read you the answer. The answer I received from the Agency is quite precise. Indeed, the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products or FAGG received signals from pharmacists that certain companies do not comply with the phased vaccination. It is often rumors that are rarely supported by concrete evidence. The Inspection shall take the complaints seriously and shall also take samples to verify the correct application of the recommendations for the phased approach for the elements for which the Inspection is responsible, namely delivery by pharmacists. On the basis of the answer I have received, no concrete findings have yet been made in this respect. As you know, vaccines intended for occupational medicine vaccination must be delivered by a pharmacist on the basis of a group prescription and a nomination list. The group requirement shall be recorded in the regulatory register. The current legislation does not provide for registration in the name of the patient. That's where the difficulty lies. I see Mrs. Depoorter nodding. So it is a difficulty, but it is not a simple matter either. The FAGG examines the possibilities of adapting the regulations for the next flu vaccination campaign. I repeat that in my written preparation a confirmation of the FAGG is also found. 1.9 million vaccines have already been delivered; 1 million vaccines still have to be sent to the companies. Most will be delivered by the end of October 2020. Why aren't they here yet? They're different productions. The European principles of the internal market should guarantee that things are going well here. I will make a summary in French of some elements. I admit that, compared to other years, some of the vaccines will be delivered later. That's all the tension. They are temporary in nature. Temporary availability in pharmacies is possible, but all stakeholders are doing their utmost to ensure that vaccines reach at-risk groups as quickly as possible. As I said, the calculation of the number seems to be satisfactory. The number of vaccines provided increased by (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u21	I'm sorry to interrupt, minister, but one of our members has his microphone on. I don't see who directly, but I'm pointing it out. I'm sorry to interrupt, but there's someone we hear about, in addition to you. Mrs. Reuter, could you turn off your microphone, please? Thank you. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u22	Even with a reasonable increase in vaccine coverage among risk groups, there is currently no indication that there will not be enough influenza vaccines available for risk groups, of course, provided that all stakeholders follow the recommendation on the sequential approach. The influenza vaccination task force follows closely the situation: to organise a request to all pharmacies to identify the amount of vaccines still needed for vaccination of target audiences and to cross information with the amount of vaccines still to be distributed. Depending on the results, the Task Force will take the necessary steps to ensure access to the vaccine to target groups. I sum up: companies that vaccinate staff must provide themselves with vaccines from a pharmacy. Pharmacists have clearly been instructed to deliver only vaccines intended for vaccination in the first phase of the target group. The Federal Agency received complaints from pharmacists that some companies would not adhere to sequential vaccination. These are mostly rumours rarely supported by concrete evidence, but DG Inspection takes these complaints seriously and carries out random checks to verify the correct application of the recommendations for the sequential approach, and this, of course, at the level of its competences, i.e. the delivery by pharmacists. At present, no concrete findings have been made in this regard. Mr President, I shall conclude. I, too, find this annoying. I hear that in my surroundings, too. Unfortunateness is never good. It is a bit of a vicious circle, but on the basis of the current data we should be able to reassure both pharmacists and people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed explanation. I think you describe the situation very well. There is a great deal of fear, both in the sector and in the citizens. If we can reassure them today with the answer you have given us, we can give a good signal. I find Mrs Jiroflée's question on the administration of vaccinations by pharmacists interesting, but we have not yet received an answer. After all, our group has tabled a legislative proposal on this subject. I would have liked an answer to that, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u24	We will see if the Minister wishes to add anything else later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am not entirely reassured by those figures. You can't do that, because you weren't there yet. In order to have proper coverage of vaccination, 70% of the risk group should be vaccinated. In recent years, we were at 46.2 %. If a larger group is now defined by the Supreme Health Council for the sake of the COVID-19 pandemic, then we will not get there. A fact is that all waiting lists are large among all my colleagues, among all pharmacists. Indeed, some people are on two lists. That will be moderated, but I fear that we will be short. Next year, we really have to work on that. I asked the question about European legislation because we have experienced this with the mouth masks. At some point there was protectionism in Europe and I would not want us to see it again with flu vaccines. So I do not think it would be a bad idea to mention this if there were still inter-ministerial contacts at European level. I am very pleased to hear that by next year the FAGG will examine how we can deal with the registration of flu vaccines by the occupational health services. Whether it goes through the vaccine network or through the shared pharmaceutical dossier, it is absolutely necessary that this registration is carried out, not only to track who has been vaccinated against flu but at a later stage also for the COVID vaccine. If a patient is hospitalized, we must of course know very well whether a vaccine has been given for flu or COVID. In this way, certain diagnoses can be excluded.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for the reassuring answer. People in our area often ask if there are enough flu vaccines available, and I can now tell those people that you have reassured us. Of course, this concern on the part of the people does not come from the sky, it also has to do with the government's clumsy approach to the corona crisis. One can't blame people for being worried now, with the debacle of the masks still in the back of the head. I have another question. We read in the press that there is an export ban on flu vaccines in Belgium, but you say that this is actually against European rules. France can't do that, but we can. It's probably just me, but I don't understand. For the rest, I am satisfied with your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u27	Minister, the message you have given will indeed reassure many people who were asking questions, quite rightly. With a little bit of humor, it will be said that, in the absence of vaccines, pharmacists will be able to deliver a reassuring message to their patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u28	Minister, I am not reassured. You're saying we're planning to increase the vaccination rate. However, those who fail to obtain a vaccine are those who are vaccinated each year. Today, they have still not been able to obtain their vaccine and their pharmacist cannot calm their concerns. Do you know exactly how many vaccines were delivered to occupational medicine? As I said in the introduction, for about one million vaccines, it is not known whether they were delivered to occupational medicine or if they were eventually given to people who are not at risk. I encourage you to conduct the pharmacist survey. But there is also a need for the AFMPS to actually investigate. You're saying the testimony couldn't be verified. I think it is your duty to ensure that as many people as possible receive their vaccine. What of November 15, 2020? I didn't get an answer. Do you intend to open vaccination to other people at that time? And as my colleague has asked, why not try to order extra doses from suppliers like GSK? Personally, I am not reassured and I will not hesitate to ask you again within the next two weeks. Until then, more deliveries are expected to arrive.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answer. You therefore consider the situation to be under control. At this point, I will make a few comments. You are taking in comparison to the number of people who were vaccinated in 2018. It must be noted, however, that although Belgium ordered 2.9 million vaccines this year, it had ordered 2.6 million vaccines last year. [[So that's not much more.]] I note that several Member States of the European Union have been able to order 30% more vaccines than last year, since, in conjunction with the VOCID-19 crisis, it is crucial to have the highest possible coverage. You take a comparison point in 2018. According to OECD figures, on the basis of figures provided by Belgium, the vaccination rate was not 60%. However, we must do everything possible to achieve at least a 75% vaccination rate. In the crisis of VOCID-19, it is all the more important. Of course, we'll see what's going on. We will have the answer very quickly. In my view, the possibility of asking other Member States if we lack doses in Belgium is to be explored. Allow me to insist that the broader recommendations of the Higher Council of Health be truly respected this year. In addition, I would like to ask you, together with the Minister for Employment, to recall the recommendations to be made to the doctors at work in order to prevent people who normally do not need the vaccine from being vaccinated and others from being deprived of the vaccine.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u30	Minister, thank you for your answers. Indeed, what is happening at the moment can be seen as a bit of a life-size repetition of the VOCID-19 vaccination campaign. Like Mrs Farih, I would also be interested to know your answer with regard to vaccination in pharmacy. I will also ask you again about the supplementary order with GSK, when we see it a little clearer, within a fortnight, and that we will have a much more precise record of the state of the orders, the state of the stocks and what will have been delivered to the target people. We will do one more thing at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I really hope that you are right and that this is a vicious circle with different orders and therefore double fears, which will have to reduce day after day when the vaccines arrive in the pharmacies, especially when the extra delivery takes place at the end of October or early November 2020. In that sense, I would like to make a suggestion. Suppose delivery takes place on November 5, 2020. It'll take a few more days to get there. I propose that we stick to the priority vaccination of target groups after 15 November 2020 before we start to vaccinate massively in companies for people who are less vulnerable. It is just a suggestion, which we should perhaps bear in mind if the delivery date is 5 November 2020. I am pleased to hear from the FAGG that there are checks and samples and that the rumours that come to us are being taken seriously by the FAGG. I'm just making a warm call to keep doing that and stick with it until the last day.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u32	Minister, thank you for your partly reassuring answers, which I regret. If 65% of the total dose has been distributed, the remainder is expected to be distributed by the end of October. That's very good. It's certainly better than what I could read. Indeed, the Belgian Pharmaceutical Association had estimated that only half of the doses had been delivered. The information you have given is therefore rather positive. However, only one in three Belgians in the risk groups is not protected, although they should. It is also my responsibility that people who are not in the risk groups for which this vaccine is to be reserved are still able to obtain it. How can we organise a control on this matter and, above all, avoid this kind of situation, in particular until 15 November? On the other hand, I have not heard you comment on how the remaining doses will be delivered. What I've heard is that it's about late October. Is it a hope on your part or a commitment or will it depend on the monitoring work that is carried out by this task force, which parallels the needs of pharmacies and the doses that remain to be delivered? For the rest, I join the questions that have been raised by some of my colleagues. Today we are faced with a crisis which puts us in great difficulty, but which offers us the opportunity to draw positive lessons for the future, in particular by ensuring that pharmacists can be made competent to administer this vaccine, starting next winter, after consultation with the pharmacists who are the first to be involved. This is, in my opinion, a trail that we have to dig.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your very reassuring reply. As Mrs Farih said, you have not yet responded to the suggestion that pharmacists should also be involved in the use of vaccines. According to your predecessor, two advices had already arrived on the way, or even on the way. Of course, that's not about the current period anymore, it would be a little crazy to change the system now. However, it seems to me to be a suggestion for a next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answers, which I hope will reassure you a little. As I was telling you, and you know as well as I do, the atmosphere is anxiogenic, and that only adds to the anxiety we are currently experiencing. There are still concerns about new measures and possible re-establishment of which much is being talked about. Clearly, the most vulnerable people who are trying not to leave, and who no longer have any contact, are extremely worried and really need the smallest message to be reassured. Access to this vaccine for traditional influenza can provide some relief. It will indeed be necessary to follow the file to see if everyone can be reassured.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u35	Minister, you can add a few more. Of course, Members will have the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u36	Mr President, I am going to do that, although I am increasingly coming under pressure of time, because the corona crisis is really not standing still. I would really like to be available at 5 p.m. Several members asked a question about the role of the pharmacist in the vaccination. I am afraid to reply because I have not yet read these opinions and I do not dare to improvise on them in this committee. I would like to clarify something about France-Belgium-Europe. I do not have any written preparation for this, I speak by heart and with the reservation that I may be mistaken. However, my knowledge of European legislation says the following. Countries may block exports on the basis of public health arguments. It's okay. Furthermore, we must not block exports, because we have a single market. If companies in Belgium have lottery tickets allocated to Belgian patients, if there is a contract to deliver to Belgian patients, then we can say, on the basis of interpretation of European regulations, if we have good arguments, that they should not be carried out in parallel, that they should not disappear here. If there is production in Belgian companies of a medicine that is not intended for Belgian patients, we must not stop its export. That distinction must be made. The argument is therefore an argument of public health. That means that something is meant for, assigned to Belgian patients. In France, if we were to stop tickets intended for us, we would be in complete conflict with the internal market. You can't do that. If the French say they have lots of medicines that are predestined and necessary for French patients, they may decide that they should not be exported. You must interpret the European legal constellation in this way. I am not a lawyer, but I think that is the interpretation of the European constellation. That is why I do not think my answer is contradictory. I just wanted to clarify that. For the rest, Mr President, I shall remain silent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your additional explanation. If I remember correctly, it was all over the mouth masks and protective equipment that France stopped orders destined for the Belgian market. If this comes to an end, this can also happen with the flu vaccines. I'm not a lawyer either, so I'm not sure, but I hope you're right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u38	That concludes this topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u39	Minister, I refer to a few points in the coalition agreement. We will be able to continue the debate on this in the light of your policy paper and the discussion of the budget, but since it may last until the end of the month, before we get those documents, I would like to clarify a few things already. The first question concerns your commitment to making health care more quality and efficient. Scientific research from among others the KCE has shown time and time again that the fragmentation of competences in us is counterproductive for health care. Besides, she's costing us a lot of money. Would you like to consider the distribution of public health competences in this federal country? How do you intend to achieve efficiency gains in this respect? Prevention is a competence of the Länder. Can the Länder be given extra money so that they can make more use of prevention? Your predecessor couldn't be found for that, but perhaps you could?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u40	The coalition agreement makes it very clear that the division of powers can be improved. In the coming years, in cooperation with the regions and communities, the government will strive for more homogeneous powers and thus greater efficiency. In concrete terms, my colleagues Verlinden and Clarinval will start a democratic debate. They will also involve citizens, civil society and academia, as well as political representatives. The aim is to create a new state structure from 2024 onwards with a more homogeneous and thus more efficient division of powers, while respecting well-known principles such as subsidiarity and interpersonal solidarity. Specifically, the government agreement states that during this legislature we want to integrate legal texts on a more homogeneous division of competences in the field of health care. As far as prevention is concerned, the division of powers is clear, but you did not question it either. Preventive health care is a homogeneous package of competences, which, in its entirety, includes funding, falls within the competence of the Länder. I can only say on the basis of the case law that a government should not grant funding for matters for which it is not competent, even voluntarily. In order to transfer financial resources from the federal level to the Länder, the special financing law needs to be amended. Länder' initiatives can have a beneficial effect on the federal budget, but the opposite can also have an adverse effect. That is precisely the direct consequence of homogeneous sets of powers. So it's not that simple. In any federal country, that's what happens. On my website of the University of Amsterdam you will find a lot of studies on this phenomenon of unemployment, if you are interested. The phenomenon is known to me. In any case, we will work on the substance of a better division of powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u41	Minister, I think it is a very hopeful signal that you want to think about it. You are right to say that a worse policy by the Länder can also have a negative effect on federal budgets. In the past, I have also fought for a certain degree of accountability. For me, this is certainly negotiable pending the more homogeneous nature of the powers. Maybe you'd like to think about that. You will already find support for this with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u42	Minister, given the current data, including the increase in contamination and hospitalizations, it is clear that many medical and surgical appointments are postponed. Until recently, experts indicated that a difference with the March and April epidemic peak was that in this period, hospitals would have much more non-COVID patients in their midst than they kept hospitalized. On the other hand, you know that the danger of a failure to follow proven or potentially proven heavy pathology is very important and has serious consequences. This was said very early by health professionals six months ago. As a result, what is the status of the reception of non-COVID patients currently in our hospitals? Specifically, what assessment is it made and on the basis of what monitoring is in place of out-of-COVID hospital consultations, examinations and care? Where are we? Are there alternatives in place to follow up on these examinations and treatments in other medical infrastructures for the protection of patients, particularly in the face of chronic or heavy and emerging conditions? Finally, does the hospital allocation plan also concern non-COVID patients? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u43	I'm just going to pick up some passages from the mail sent to all the general and university hospitals last Friday, October 16. So I'm literally quoting the mail we sent. "We stress once again the fact that the allocation plan is an essential part of actions to ensure the quality of care for VOCID and non-COVID patients, but also to allocate the burden of care and the pressure on staff and institutions. It must be clear that all urgent and necessary consultations, reviews and interventions must continue. All the therapies needed for life in progress, such as chemotherapy, dialysis, etc. or the necessary rehabilitation, will also be continued. Hospitals are safe places to continue this care. VOCID care will be clearly separated from regular care. A proportional postponement of non-emergency regular care will therefore unfortunately be necessary. Like the allocation plan, this postponement is an essential part of the actions to ensure the quality of care for patients VOCID-19 and non-COVID-19, but also to prevent excessive burden of care and pressure on staff and the institution. The operationalisation of this necessary phasing out of non-emergency regular care cannot be determined centrally on a generic basis. Many local factors play an important role in this regard, such as the type of patient, the local infrastructure and the staff available. The Chief Medical Officer has a central and difficult role to play in this area. It is recommended to proceed by consensus and in consultation with the clinicians concerned, in accordance with the advice of the Higher Council of Specialist Physicians and General Practitioners. The lists of priorities drawn up by the Superior Council in collaboration with the Belgian Group of Professional Unions of Specialist Physicians (GBS-VBS) can be used as a guide to determine the clinical priorities within the hospital. These lists are available on a website. I repeat that the central approach is a generic approach. The elective programme guaranteeing urgent and necessary care will then have to be phased out in the following order: firstly, activities involving intensive care; secondly, conventional hospitalizations which do not require intensive care; surgical activities in day hospitals which do not require intensive care; non-surgical activities in day hospitals (e.g. geriatrics, psychiatry, oncology, etc.) and consultations, home hospitalization activities and mobile teams." This concludes the mail we sent last Friday to hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u44	Minister, in view of the situation, I thank you for your answer. I am fully aware that the will is to prevent the burden of hospital care. We're going through a VOCID tsunami. I therefore count on you to follow this issue closely and in the long term, so as to avoid a non-COVID tsunami when we have passed this very difficult period for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u45	Mr President, Minister, in September the High Health Council made a number of recommendations to the Belgian authorities concerning the public health consequences of being exposed to magnetic fields of electricity supply. An earlier opinion dates back to 2008. Ongoing insights show that the increased prevention of childhood leukaemia is uncertain but cannot be excluded. The Hoge Gezondheidsraad bases itself on figures from the Netherlands, because Belgium unfortunately once again excels in a lack of figures. Why is there a lack of figures in Belgium? What policy actions will result from these recommendations? Will the minority opinion of Professor Van Larebeke be taken into account and further research will be carried out? In the Netherlands, the policy starting point is to limit the annual average magnetic field in the living environment. What is the policy starting point in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u46	Mr President, Mrs Sneppe, you assume that the conclusions of the Dutch Health Council are based on statistics of childhood leukaemia in the Netherlands and you wonder why we are not doing this for Belgium. Perhaps there is a bit of a misunderstanding, because the Dutch Health Council is based on statistics from other countries, such as the United States, Japan, Italy, Denmark, the United Kingdom, because the evidence of statistics from one country alone would not be sufficient to determine the relative weak impact of magnetic fields on a relatively rare disease. That is why international statistics are compiled in a so-called meta-analysis. That's what the Dutch Health Council did. Actually, we shouldn't do that again. They did. If we do that again, we'll do the same. It's a meta-analysis of many countries. Usually advisory councils formulate their recommendations on the basis of literature reviews, but the Dutch Health Council did a meta-analysis of statistics. This council is internationally known because it works thoroughly, particularly in the field of scientific analysis in the field of electromagnetic radiation. Our Belgian High Health Council has acted differently. He has carried out a literature review and consolidated recommendations from the other advisory bodies such as the French department AFSSET, the Swedish radiation safety authority, the European SCENIHR and the Dutch Health Council. Our High Health Council therefore relies on a very broad basis. It is not entirely right that we have no figures in Belgium. We contribute to international fundamental research with exposure assessments, but also to epidemiological and experimental research. I can give you examples. These studies, together with corresponding statistics, were carried out by the Belgian BioElectronic Group, a multidisciplinary team of researchers from the universities of Liège, Ghent and Brussels and an institute from Brussels. That's about the High Health Council and the dates. I cannot answer your question as to what policy actions result from this, as I do not have the authority to do so. The recommendations of the High Health Council are particularly important in terms of spatial planning - the installation of housing, sports grounds and youth centres and the construction of new high-voltage lines - a regional competence. The normalization of exposure to magnetic fields is also a regional matter. The Regions are responsible for the quality of our living environment. I am confident that the current recommendations of the Supreme Health Council, including the minority position of Prof. Dr. Em. Nicolas van Larebeke, find the necessary feedback in the policy of the three Regions. My administration will, where necessary, adjust the information related to the use of electrical devices that may involve prolonged exposure on its website, taking into account any new elements of the High Health Council's opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u47	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I am glad that you will change this in the light of this study and that you have clarified it here. That was the point of my question. My question was also prompted by the fact that this is very topical. The offshore wind farms must be connected to the land grid in order to generate electricity. I know this is not your competence, but you could put your shoulders in any inter-ministerial cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u48	Minister, an open letter was published on 24 August asking for more research into the transmission of animal diseases to humans and vice versa. Specialists have been warning for some time about the increase in zoonoses, the closer living of animals and humans and the increasing population density, as well as the intensive cultivation of utility animals. What action will you take on this open letter, in so far as the issue raised in it falls within the federal competence? To what extent do you discuss this in consultation with your Flemish colleague, in so far as it concerns shared competences?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u49	I support this One Health approach, because it rightly recognises that human and animal health is naturally linked. It is precisely in application of that idea, a transversal approach, which was established in 2018 by Sciensano. My administration, the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment, has also integrated the principle One World, One Health into the core of its vision and the governance agreement that focuses on health and all those components. There is now no specific budget for transversal One World, One Health research projects, but many initiatives have already been taken and projects funded that fit into that vision: in the Federal Health Knowledge Centre, BELSPO, the research programme of the contract research cell of the FPS Public Health and the NEHAP unit, the National Environmental and Health Action Plan. I would also like to point out that in the context of the current health crisis within the risk assessment group COVID-19, the RAG or Risk Assessment Group, a subgroup of RAG COVID animals has been established to examine the risk assessment of COVID-19 in animals, in the context of the protection of public health. At national level, the Belgian One Health Network was also established with the support of the FPS Public Health and Sciensano, to create a discussion area that connects the diversity of citizens, scientists and politicians to operationalise an integrated approach. We also consult with the BFSA and the academic world at the contract research level of the FPS Public Health. The Inter-Ministerial Conferences on Public Health and the Environment and Health are places for consultation with the federated entities where we can have these discussions. I will examine the possibilities for strengthening this transversal scientific research axis and I will also consult with the Secretary of State for Science Policy to explore possible new avenues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am pleased that there is such a sub-group within the RAG that studies or monitors the relationship between animal and human beings and the transmission of diseases. I think we should keep this in mind together with the specialists who warn of an increase in such zoonoses, especially when we think of the origin of the corona virus that causes COOVID-19. If it were to come from such markets, there is a good chance that this will happen more often. I am very pleased with your answer and with the possible initiatives you will take.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u51	As a reminder, for an interplay, the Member will have ten minutes to speak. The Minister also gets ten minutes for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u52	Minister, the corona crisis has made it very painfully clear that the powers in our country are too fragmented. The sixth state reform did not provide homogeneous packages, so the Länder are responsible for, for example, well-being, but their funding is still largely at the federal level. The government negotiations, in which our country broke its own record, showed once again that this country has run out. I have said it many times in this House: everything is Community in this country. I'll stick with that. The Flemish Interest is not alone in this determination. More and more citizens are following us in our quest for autonomy, but interest groups are also beginning to fear the dreaded question of imposing more autonomy in these circles at least. Following the formation discussions, the Flemish Association of Doctors wanted to remind the communities of its demand to fully entrust health care to the communities. Also Zorgnet-Icuro at the mouth of Margot Cloet argues in full corona crisis for the regionalisation of health care. Lieven Annemans, Professor of Health Economics at Ghent University and VUB, wants to place the full competence for health in the regions. To supplement the list, I would also like to quote ex-Minister Geens: "Not only the architecture, also the division of powers within Belgium needs to be reviewed. The guide is the autonomy of the Länder. Indeed, the inter-state preference differences are large." That quote dates back to 5 March 2020, so not so long ago. A complete state reform with the transfer of homogeneous packages to the Länder is not at issue for the time being, unfortunately, because the procedure has not been followed, but pending this, the Flemish Interest, together with the Flemish Association of Doctors, is asking for the procedure to be prepared and the budgets to be split already. So alone Flanders and Wallonia can go the way they want to go. For example, Flanders alone can eliminate waiting lists in the rest homes, support disabled people and eliminate poverty. Only our French-speaking neighbours can take matters into their own hands and go the way they think is important. That is why I have only one question in this interplay. Will you take the necessary steps and join the cart to transfer healthcare funding to the communities? This is, of course, awaiting a constitutional change, which transfers the powers of public health fully to the communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u53	Mr President, I refer to what I said to Mrs Yoleen Van Camp's oral question. The coalition agreement clearly states that we are going to work towards a more efficient division of powers. This has been clarified in the field of public health. We are going to integrate legal texts to ensure a more homogeneous and efficient division of powers. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u54	Mr President, Minister, the grass had already been mowed away a bit. You say that you 'will work on', that is of course a very vague answer. However, you are known as a regionalist, as I read in the newspaper. I hope that you will honour that name and take part in that cart in order to find the majorities needed to finally give the communities what they are entitled to, namely homogeneous powers and also the necessary budgets. For these homogeneous powers, we must wait for a state reform, which will not be earlier than 2024. However, the adjustment of budgets can already be achieved without constitutional changes. It is not normal, for example, for the Länder to be responsible for prevention and to put a great deal of resources into it, while the federal level is reaping the benefits. A nurse in a residential care centre is paid for by Flanders. A nurse in the geriatric ward of a hospital receives a federal salary. As they perform the same tasks, they'll probably get a different wage. Here there is even discrimination between care staff in institutions that fall under different policy levels. Minister, I could continue to list all kinds of Kafkaian situations for a while, but I think it is clear that urgent work is needed on the overall regionalisation of health care. A first step in the right direction would be the transfer of the budgets needed to continue to focus on both communities. Flemish Interest hopes to be able to count on your support for this, and more support than just the vague promise that you will work on homogeneous packages. Mr President, I should like to speak on a point of order. I am tabling a motion of recommendation to reinforce this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u55	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Dominiek Sneppe and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Dominiek Sneppe and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health, - considering that the sixth state reform did not provide homogeneous sets of powers, so that the Länder were responsible for, for example, welfare, but that their funding was still largely at the federal level; - having regard to the request of the Flemish Association of Doctors to entrust health care fully to the Communities; - having regard to Zorgnet lcuro's plea for regionalisation of health care; - having regard to the pleas made by professors of health economy at Ghent University and the VUB to regionalise health care; - having regard to the rulings of a member of the then federal government on 5 March 2020 stating that the autonomy of the Länder should prevail; asks the government take the necessary steps to transfer the full financing of health care to the Communities, pending a new state reform." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Dominiek Sneppe and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Dominiek Sneppe and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, - Whereas the sixth reform of the State did not give birth to homogeneous packages of competences, for example, with the result that the federated entities are in particular competent for welfare, while its financing is still largely a federal allocation; - having regard to the request of the Vlaams Artsenverbond to entrust all health care to the Communities; - having regard to Zorgnet Icuro's plea for regionalisation of health care; - having regard to the advocacy of health economics professors at the University of Ghent and VUB for regionalisation of health care; - having regard to the declarations of 5 March 2020 of a member of the federal government acting on that date that the autonomy of the federated entities must take precedence; asks the government to undertake, pending further reform of the State, the necessary steps to transfer the financing of health care to the Communities in full." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Karin Jiroflée. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Karin Jiroflée. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u56	Mr President, can I do the same as for topical debates and refer to the text of my question?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u57	Yes, Mrs. Rohonyi.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u58	Mrs Rohonyi, the answer is simple. This is not a matter for me, but for the federated entities. The subject of the administrative overload of general practitioners is on the table of the Interdepartmental Conference. I am doing my best to alleviate the situation by all kinds of measures and, for example, by setting up a priority system for testing. The practical and material support of doctors' circles is the responsibility of the Communities. Even if it is not within my competence, the problem is extremely important to me. I am trying to contribute to a general solution, particularly in the Interministerial Conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u59	Minister, you will not be surprised to hear that I am not satisfied with this answer. I think that for too long, throughout this crisis, we have heard that institutional lasagna is an excuse to refer to other levels of power. Regardless of the breakdown of skills in our country, it is your role, Minister, to support general practitioners in the care of patients and to ensure that access to primary care is guaranteed, whether or not patients are affected by VOCID-19. That is why the ABSyM, like the College of General Medicine, has put forward a number of concrete proposals to you, Mr. Minister – and not the ministers of the federated entities –: to remove the healing certificates for teachers and employers; to ensure that workers working in call centres, school medicine centres and occupational health services can generate electronic forms themselves; and to set up a call centre capable of answering citizens' questions. In fact, Mr. De Backer, when he was in charge of tracing and competent in medical devices in the context of this crisis, had supported this idea. Instead, you yourself, Minister, have made decisions that can be understood but that have the effect of increasing the workload with this new barometer that does not satisfy general practitioners. So I think you still need to hear the appeal that is being made to you today by all these general practitioners who are absolutely not satisfied with their current workload or with this new barometer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u60	Mr Minister, recently, as part of the In Their Shoes project, I, like some other colleagues, have been offered a falsely real situation of Crohn's disease. The project proposed to experience one day as a person with a chronic disease, particularly chronic inflammatory bowel disease. It affects more than 30,000 people in our territory. In concrete terms, missions were sent to us during our daily activities via a smartphone app. These messages called for simulating situations that people with Crohn's disease face on a daily basis - a very special experience for me. This disease remains poorly known to the population. It is known that it has many very difficult consequences for the sick to live on a daily basis, in their social, professional and of course personal life. Could you therefore answer the following questions? What is the evolution of the number of patients with this disease in our country and in Europe over the last five years? What is the profile of these people - gender and age, for example? What are the accessible, new and implemented means of detecting Crohn's disease? It is known that early diagnosis leads to better treatment outcomes. What, then, are the concrete, medical and preventive actions which make it possible to establish the earliest possible diagnosis? What treatments are currently proposed for this disease? What are the scientific advances in this field in our country? What measures are being taken specifically to ensure better living conditions and access to the medicines needed to cope with the disease? On the other hand, with regard to the daily lives of patients, one specific question concerns the pass, allowing priority access to sanitary facilities. This is not binding. How can patients apply for such a pass? What is the procedure and what are the conditions for granting it? Has this health emergency card recently been evaluated? Since the entry into force of this document, have there been any exchanges with the Horeca, Public Services and Trade sector? If so, what are the conclusions to be drawn? Are you considering making this mechanism mandatory and legally binding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u61	Mr President, I would also like to thank Members for giving me a moment's speaking time and thus giving me the opportunity to combine two committees. Minister, As Mrs Taquin has already described, In Their Shoes is a project in which participants can experience what it is to live with IBD or inflammatory bonel disease or in the Dutch chronic bowel inflammation by means of an app on their phone. The participant gets a number of challenges that need to be accomplished. The word 'challenges' is very consciously chosen. For example, it's about following a certain diet or going to the toilet in time. I have had the pleasure, like other Members, of participating in the project. It really is a catchy, lifelike experience and teaches us very well what the patients in question must go through and how to organise themselves. It's not obvious, even with just one app. I didn't succeed. I've had my pants full every now and then, to put it literally and so on. Minister, in Belgium more than 30,000 patients suffer from the disease. The most well-known variant will know most of them, namely Crohn's disease, of which there are about 15,000 cases. A further 500 cases of Crohn's disease and 350 cases of ulcerative colitis are added each year. Unfortunately, the exact cause of the disease is not yet known. There is still research and research into heredity, lifestyle, intestinal bacteria and that's more. Mr Minister, my question on the basis of this real-life experience is the following. Are there any initiatives pending or are there initiatives in the broad field of health that are better or even better suited to the needs of that particular group of patients, of whom I have had the pleasure of experiencing what they are all going through? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u62	Mr President, I did also participate in the In Their Shoes challenge. My question concerns more precisely the medicines in need for patients with this disease, specifically the Questran, which has not been available in Belgium for two years now, as well as other enemas, including the Colitofalk 2 g, which is at risk of shortage. The lives of these patients are already so difficult. If, in addition, they face shortages of medicines, it becomes really very complicated. Minister, have you been in contact with stakeholders on this issue? Have you tried to find a solution for these patients with Belgian wholesalers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u63	Mr President, I have also had the opportunity to participate in In Their Shoes. I know the disease well because I myself had patients affected by it. Many things still have to be done, of course, but I would like to focus today on a problem. Because we talk a lot about VOCID, we sometimes forget a little too much about non-VOCID patients who have a chronic disease and are now in a particularly difficult situation. For these patients with Crohn's disease, ulcerative hemorrhagic rectocolitis or any other inflammatory bowel disease, there is now a major shortage of both Cholestyramine and mesalamine enemas. Some are supposedly no longer on the market, while they are still on the market in the other European countries, while others argue that bad motives are being put forward. I would like to tell you how problematic this shortage of medicines is for the daily lives of many patients. Patients who either do not have access to these drugs or have to go abroad to obtain them, or have to go through their pharmacist, who in turn orders the drugs abroad. For all of these patients, the disease is much less well controlled and the shortage of medicines has an impact on their health status and their ability to live or work. These are drugs of the greatest importance. Access to these drugs, as well as their financial accessibility, are therefore seriously undermined. I would therefore like to make this appeal so that, as an authority, you can, in collaboration with the INAMI and the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products, with relevant patient associations, as well as with wholesalers and pharmaceutical companies, bring together all the forces that really count to find solutions and ensure that, tomorrow, in Belgium, patients have new access to these medicines that are vital to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u64	Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis are indeed chronic inflammatory bowel diseases called Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD). These are chronic inflammatory diseases in the digestive system with an up-and-coming pathology. Crohn's disease can affect the entire digestive system, while in ulcerative colitis, inflammation is limited to the large intestine. The disease must be treated and monitored for a lifetime and has a major impact on the quality of life and leads to an increased risk of cancer. The symptoms are also not always specific: tiredness, diarrhoea, abdominal pain and fever. This may lead to the diagnosis being made late at times. Exact figures for Belgium are not available, but it is estimated that around 30,000 patients suffer from Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis in Belgium. In Europe it is estimated that about 3 million people live with IBD. Crohn's disease is usually diagnosed between 15 and 30 years of age. More women are affected than men. ulcerative colitis is often diagnosed earlier. The diagnosis is made on the basis of the clinical image by a coscopy with biopsy of the affected tissue and by medical imaging by NMR or CT scan. Most patients are treated with anti-inflammatory drugs, e.g. 5-ASA preparations and steroids or medications that suppress the immune system such as Azathioprine. In some cases antibiotics or biological medicines such as anti-TNF alpha are prescribed. Sometimes surgery is necessary due to the possible formation of fistulas and narrowing in the intestine. In order to optimise the quality of care and the quality of life of the patient, the follow-up of the patient in the hospitals treating IBD involves specialised multidisciplinary IBD teams, in which an IBD nurse acts as a central point of contact for the patient. Patient associations for IBD also play a major role in supporting patients for non-medical aspects. Furthermore, these patients are also eligible for all measures applicable to patients with chronic disease, such as the status of chronic disease and the maximum invoice. The toilet pass is an initiative of the patient association in collaboration with representatives of the catering industry and other self-employed organisations. This initiative is also supported by some health insurance funds. It is natural that patients should have access to a toilet when needed. A legal enforceability should not be necessary. Sensitisation, such as the action In your shoes, in which you participated, should lead to a better understanding of the situation of persons with IBD, so that the refusal of a toilet does not happen anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u65	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would of course like to stress the issue of the availability of treatments. I would also like to know whether there have been any differences between Belgium and other countries in terms of specialization in the treatment of this disease. In addition, I would like to come back to the Clothes Pass, which was created at the initiative of the patient associations. I would really like us to reflect on this binding aspect. Indeed, this should be granted without constraint. But it must be noted that, on the ground, this does not happen in this way. However, depending on what has been learned from the experience that has been conducted, the availability of toilets at any location is important if we are to contribute to the well-being of society, the work and the emotional lives of patients with this disease.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for pointing out once again the measures relating to the status of the chronically ill, the maximum invoicing and the good work done by the multidisciplinary teams in our hospitals, including for non-COVID-19 patients, as they have been doing and continue to do for a long time. I want to join the toilet pass, the pass worked out in collaboration with patients' associations, among others. Ladies and gentlemen, while we are 'experience experts', although very limited, we must make sure that the toilet pass is effectively enforceable on the ground. We must help to raise awareness so that people who have such a toilet pass can also find an accessible toilet. We must set up a campaign to raise awareness. If there is no other way, we must make this enforceable. However, we must begin to raise awareness. That always works better than forcing it directly, so it is not workable in practice either. We're moving forward. After our real life experience, we must go along with the Minister to give good care to the more than 30 000 people in our country affected by this difficult-to-wear disease.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u67	Minister, thank you for your answers. I asked very, very specific questions about the treatment of these people and for which two medicines are in short supply. I didn't get a precise answer. I guess you may not have had the answers. I will then allow myself to rest the question. Indeed, it is an overly burdensome disease that has a huge social impact. If one adds to this the insecurity about a treatment that helps to have a better quality of life, it is unbearable for these patients to know that this medication exists just in France, that it is not accessible in Belgium while solutions exist. I will repeat this request one more time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u68	Minister, I am not going to thank you either on behalf of the patients or on behalf of the caregivers. Frankly, it's good to read the medical dictionary. You are told that there are drugs that are extraordinarily important to these patients, that some of them do not have access to them, that others have financial worries because they have to pick them up abroad or go through their pharmacist who orders abroad, causing significant costs. Compared to all this, not a single word! I find this unacceptable for patients and caregivers who are razing. Frankly, the pharmaceutical companies concerned with these medicines continue to produce them and to market them in foreign countries, in Europe, but in Belgium this is not the case. For the wrong reasons, we stopped marketing them. You have to take the bull by the horns. These medicines must be accessible to all patients in need in Belgium because there is no plan B. There is no alternative for a number of them and they are drugs of the greatest importance. I don't know why you didn't answer that question. Not a single word from you! I hope it's not because you "foul"! I'm sorry for the expression, but it really shockes me for the patients involved and for the caregivers who have been mobilizing since I don't know how long to try to solve this situation. I will therefore table an inquiry with a motion of recommendation very quickly, in the coming days.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u69	Mr President, I would like to say a few words about the previous point. Mrs Fonck, during my preparation, I had not seen your question. The mistake is probably on my side.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u70	However, it was on the agenda. The document was transmitted. This issue will need to be clarified.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u71	A new question or inquiry will be welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u72	We take note of that, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u73	To allow everyone to ask their questions and move forward more quickly, I refer to my question 55009952C as filed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u74	I'm having a little trouble following. What question is it exactly?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u75	On the agenda, this is an item attached to question number 55009218C. The first item is Ms Rohonyi's, the second is Mr Prévot's and concerns the Kine sessions for IMC children.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u76	I have indeed received an answer to Mrs Rohonyi's question, which concerns the same subject, I suppose. I can answer Mrs Rohonyi if she wishes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u77	Mrs Rohonyi will certainly welcome your answer to her question, but obviously you do not have the answers to all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u78	The problem is probably from our home.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u79	Two attached questions were asked. Mr. Minister said that he had an answer to Mrs. Rohonyi's question but not to Mr. Prévot's question. I would suggest that Mr Prévot's question remain administratively unanswered and that he put it again at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u80	I will answer Mrs Rohonyi's question, hoping also to provide elements for Mr Prévot's reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u81	All right. Mr. Prévot may indicate to you the extent to which he is satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u82	Thank you for your flexibility. Therefore, in response to the question raised, I would like to provide you with the following points. The reason for this royal decree of 3 February 2019 was as follows, according to the note of the insurance committee of INAMI: "For specific benefits of a minimum duration of 60' for patients with cerebral infirmity, this adaptation aims to better meet the specific needs of these patients, both before and after their twenty-first birthday. This adaptation of the nomenclature is an execution of the physiotherapist-insurers agreement 2018-2019." The entire adjustment of the nomenclature was approved by the Insurance Committee with an estimated budgetary impact of an additional €442,500 on an annual basis. Therefore, there was no question of achieving savings or even remaining financially neutral in a closed envelope, but of meeting the needs of patients both after and before their 21st birthday. From their 21st birthday, BMI patients could no longer receive 60 minutes of benefits. The Technical Council for Kinesitherapy, on the basis of the opinions of the field service providers and experts consulted, considered it useful to give these patients the opportunity to also benefit from 60-minute benefits, as these needs persist beyond the age of 21. The Technical Council also found it useful to establish functional criteria for accessing these specific services, as is the case for all other pathological situations requiring intensive or chronic kinesotherapeutic treatments. It seemed logical, by introducing these functional criteria from the 21st anniversary of these patients, to do the same before 21 years. The Technical Council for Kinesitherapy is now evaluating the situation, in particular on the basis of reactions received from patients, providers and associations. In addition, the INAMI actuariate will soon have the first validated data on this specific service attested after the entry into force of the Royal Decree on 1 September 2019. I will examine in detail the results of this evaluation and the resulting proposals of the Technical Council, before deciding on a possible new approach to the management of these patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u83	Minister, thank you for your answer, which I am satisfied with. Indeed, it is important, one year after the implementation of this royal decree, to evaluate it and take into account the results of the latter. I am very pleased to see that you are showing an openness in this area. I understand that the argument is not budget, but that the aim is to best meet the needs of patients. However, I continue to believe that things have been done backwards by relying on the follow-up of BMI patients to the detriment of children, when it is well known that as soon as a BMI patient is cared for, at least he or she will have to be followed up in adulthood. In my view, this is a nonsense from both a medical and a budgetary point of view. In any event, I welcome your open attitude, with the aim of not limiting the reimbursement of these essential sessions for these children.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u84	Minister, although I have obviously been forgotten in your answers, I can very partially satisfy myself with the answer you gave to Mrs Rohonyi, who asked a number of identical questions. These physiotherapy sessions must, more than ever, be able to benefit IMC adults, but it seems to me incomprehensible that this should be done at the expense of IMC children. I hear your opening on the issue and I hope that it will be that way in the future. Indeed, this care must be carried out at an early age. And, as my colleague said, the earlier the pathology is treated, the more convincing the results are for the rest of the patient's life. BMI patients must be able to benefit from these essential physiotherapy sessions before and after 21 years of age.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u85	Madam, is your question well related to the recommendations of the Supreme Council with regard to matters relating to video games? Yes. Have we analysed these opinions? Yes. My services have indeed taken note of the opinion of the Supreme Council of Health of 2 July 2020. Among other things, the Conseil Supérieur recommends promoting selective prevention, early detection and support for parenting. The Council also stresses the need to distinguish between gambling and gambling. Finally, the opinion also calls for a series of measures for industry and research. This topic has already been submitted to the Health Unit of the Drugs Policy, under the previous legislature. It is they who bring together all the representatives of the ministers responsible for health. For this theme, field experts had been invited. They then indicated that there were links between the disordered kidg and gambling and gambling insurance, but that they were related to different target groups. Kidg disorder mainly affects young people and young adults. The theme of gambling and gambling has been the subject of a working group at the request of the General Drug Policy Unit, which therefore brings together representatives of ministers responsible for drug policy. This working group prepared a vision note that was approved at the 2018 Interdepartmental Conference on Drugs at the Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health. This note is available on the drug.be political site. As far as research is concerned, you refer to the request of the Financial Board, "any investigation to identify clinical aspects, etc. " Yes, research is crucial to advancing politics, but I do not plan to launch such a study in the coming months. I believe that an inter-federal approach is needed in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u86	Minister, as much for me! I wasn't aware of that note. I will consult with her as soon as possible. I will then see if it does not deserve to be updated and if it allows us to really measure the phenomenon. To measure is to know. There is a need for an inter-federal approach to the problem, but the federal government must play its role in supporting the regions in their prevention work. If this is to go through an investigation, it will go through an investigation especially since the addiction to video games is a disease recognised by the WHO. Therefore, each level of authority must assume its responsibilities in this regard. I would also like to make a call on a subject which was not the subject of my question: we must address the problem of addiction to screens and smartphones, which is getting worse because of confinement and which is likely to get worse in the coming weeks and months because of the health crisis which does not want to let us go.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u87	Mrs Rohonyi, in response to your question, I refer you to the publication of my administration on her website www.phytoweb.be which follows the analysis of this opinion of the Higher Council of Health (SHC) of September 3. The Plant Protection Products and Fertilizers (SPE) department of the SPF Public Health has examined the Council's report in detail. Is it necessary, in the light of this report, to take action? The SPE certainly appreciates the Council's contribution to the debate on glyphosate. The report contains several interesting angles. The SPE also noted the limitations inherent in the report. The Council did not itself assess the underlying scientific data. This limitation imposed by the Council is understandable. An analysis of all studies on the potential health effects of glyphosate requires much more resources than the CSS could mobilize for this report. The SPE agrees with the Council that the deadline for the approval of glyphosate must be respected, which is of course a legal obligation. If the European approval of an active substance is not renewed, authorisations for all plant protection products containing that active substance must be withdrawn in all Member States of the Union. However, EU legislation also provides for the possibility for the producer of an approved active substance to request the renewal of that approval. The SPE notes that the Council is not in favour of the continued use of glyphosate. The Council comes to this view because, in its view, all the data indicate that glyphosate is probably low carcinogenic to humans. With other toxicological properties, this is a sufficient reason for the Council to question the continued use of glyphosate. However, as noted above, the Council itself has not conducted a scientific assessment. It cannot be overemphasized that the evaluation of an application for approval of an active substance by the European Union is carried out within the framework of a strict European regulation which sets out in detail the data requirements, the methodology to be followed for the evaluation of these data and the criteria to be met by the active substance in order to be approved. Of course, it is important that the established rules are strictly respected and applied in the same way for all applicants, in order to ensure legal certainty and equal treatment for applicants, thereby avoiding legal challenges. The Commission has made no attempt, and this is perfectly understandable given the magnitude of such a task, to assess glyphosate in accordance with the current regulatory framework. The Council's opinion that the continued use of glyphosate is undesirable does not therefore constitute the conclusion of an evaluation in the light of the applicable criteria laid down in EU legislation. Therefore, the Commission's report does not contain any element that would allow the SPE to initiate, legally conclusively, a procedure for restricting or withdrawing the current authorised use. For currently authorised applications, acceptability has indeed been demonstrated under the current regulations. An application for renewal of the approval of glyphosate was submitted in December 2019. Submission of the file will follow six months later. The Commission is of the view that the entire assessment procedure following the application for renewal of approval is doomed to failure and will lead to the same impasse as today. That is why the Council believes that there is an urgent need to rethink the glyphosate problem. In this regard, the SPE wishes to make the following three remarks. Firstly, in its opinion, the Council refers to numerous scientific studies published in recent years, including studies related to toxicological aspects other than carcinogenesis. The CSS rightly stresses the potential importance of these studies, but does not evaluate them. The intention is, of course, to take these studies into account in the evaluation following the application for renewal of the approval. The conclusion of the evaluation is now unpredictable, but it is still premature to say that all this will be of no use, as the Council predicts. For the Council, the renewal of the approval of glyphosate is only possible if a plan drawn up by the competent authorities is available, after consultation with all stakeholders, regardless of the outcome of the evaluation which has not yet taken place. This is an unprecedented condition. It is not possible to subject such a substance to a procedure other than the usual procedure established by legislation or to other criteria for renewing approval such as the availability of a plan, even in the case of a substance, when a substance is the subject of controversy. As I have already pointed out, legal certainty and equal treatment are also important. This does not mean that the SPE favours the status quo. There are indeed lessons to be learned from the controversy over glyphosate. The authorities could not ignore societal concerns about the procedure for assessing glyphosate. The European institutes have analysed these concerns in depth, including broad stakeholder consultation. This exercise led to Regulation (EU) 2019/1381 of 20 June 2019 on the transparency and sustainability of the Union risk assessment in the food chain. The procedures have been adapted in order to increase transparency and to offer even more opportunities for relevant infringements, for the evaluation of all substances. Presumably, the Council did not have time to learn about the innovative aspects introduced by Regulation (EU) 2019/1381. The SPE therefore concludes that an in-depth scientific assessment of the studies submitted by the producers as well as those published in the open scientific literature should enable the authorities to establish the basis for the renewal or non-renewal of the approval of glyphosate. The Belgian position at European level falls exclusively within federal jurisdiction. It will be based on this scientific assessment. Therefore, I do not intend to consult with my regional counterparts on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u88	Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response. I understand that there is legal uncertainty at European level. But, in my opinion, we must not wait until things are clarified to take the lead. In our country, research is currently being conducted by the Agro-BioTech Faculty of ULg on viable alternatives to glyphosate, such as organic herbicides based on essential oils. In my opinion, it is really in this type of research that your government needs to invest massively. Indeed, given the carcinogenic nature of glyphosate, it is necessary to propose alternatives. This is an important public health issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u89	Mr President, this is an initial question addressed to the previous Foreign Minister, Mr Goffin, who at the time referred the matter to Minister De Block. I hope Mr Vandenbroucke can give me answers. It should be noted that between the tabling of my question and today, the National Security Council (NSC) of 23 September, which has relaxed the criterion of lasting relationship to allow separated couples to reunite. Since then, these couples have been asked to prove at least six months of common life, one year of relationship or, as before, the existence of a common child. Nevertheless, this remains a problem for some. In practice, what proportion of couples have managed to meet since the last decisions of the CNS mentioned above?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u90	I am sorry, but this is not a matter for me; it is a matter for my colleague, the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u91	As I told you, Minister Goffin referred my question to Minister De Block, which is why she landed at your house. I'll do whatever I can to interview Mrs. Wilmès. I am faced again with a ping-pong game and I regret it, without throwing the stone at you, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u92	I'm sorry, Mrs. Rohonyi. Changes in skills have taken place with the formation of the current government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u93	Mr President, Minister, in the coalition agreement I read that it is the ambition of this government to set up a comprehensive and powerful anti-tobacco policy and to strive to achieve a smoke-free generation, something that is also very strongly advocated by the alliance and against cancer. Is it too early or can you give more insight into the measures you are planning in this area to discourage smoking, rather than increasing excise duties? After all, you have already made that clear. Is there anything you can say about the increase in excise duty? Which price increase are we talking about exactly? At what time would that happen? What are your ambitions with the anti-tobacco policy, expressed in figures? By how many percent do you want to reduce the number of smokers under your flag?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u94	"Mr. Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u95	Mr President, I shall begin by answering Mrs Fonck's question before answering Mrs Van Camp. First of all, I would like to highlight the work done in this area by Mrs De Block, who preceded me, and by Parliament in recent years. Many tobacco control legislation has recently entered into force or will be in force in the coming months. I am thinking in particular of: - the prohibition of the sale of tobacco to persons under 18 years of age; - the introduction of the standardized package for cigarettes, rolling tobacco and chicha tobacco; - a ban on smoking in a vehicle in the presence of minors; - the prohibition of advertising at points of sale. In order to achieve the Tobacco-Free Generations objective announced in the government declaration, and thus to profile ourselves as one of the most active and ambitious countries in this field, it is necessary to do much more in all areas of tobacco consumption. To this end, I wish to develop a long-term strategy, involving all the competent authorities in the country. Similar steps have already been taken in other countries. The details of the measures taken still need to be discussed with the relevant actors. Given my federal jurisdiction, the following leads exist: - to strengthen the provisions on packaging and control of ingredients by applying to all tobacco products the measures already in force for cigarettes and rolling tobacco, since they present the same health risks; - reduce the number of outlets; - make tobacco packages invisible in outlets, e.g. by prohibiting automatons; - to implement all the provisions of the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, ratified by Belgium and, in particular, its Article 5.3, which aims to protect anti-smoking policies from the commercial interests of the tobacco industry; - improve monitoring; - strengthen denormalization. It is useful, for example, to ban tobacco in places where children are present in mass. They're leads. Obviously, alongside these health provisions, other federal departments will be involved. For example, the Minister of Finance is responsible for the taxation of tobacco products, but I will obviously be involved in the debate on this issue. Indeed, taxation is the single most influential measure. It will also be necessary to work in consultation with the federated entities that are responsible for prevention and withdrawal. Finally, it goes without saying that the actors involved in the fight against tobacco play a crucial role in our country in this respect. In addition to the Cancer Foundation, I am thinking in particular of the Alliance for a Tobacco Free Society and all its members who promote the concept of Tobacco Free Generations. They will, of course, be involved in the reflection and implementation of this objective. Mrs Van Camp's questions are a bit similar. How important is this? Let me reiterate that this is an important issue for me in the coalition agreement. We will give priority to the pursuit of a smoke-free generation. You're talking about an increase in excise duty. In itself, this is not enough to prevent people from starting smoking or getting a decrease in the number of smokers. We also need education and interventions, I have already mentioned a few slopes. We will include all this in the policy paper. You are already asking for details of the increase in excise duties, which price increase, but I cannot say very much about that. It is about excise duty and VAT on tobacco, and we need to clear that up even further. You also ask about the ambitions. I have already said something about this in the French part of my answer. We want to implement a plan that is integral and has an impact. We need to work with intermediate targets that can be measured, because sustainable influence on behaviour is not very easy. I will give you some elements and have already given some examples to Mrs Fonck, but we will have to discuss them in greater detail later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u96	Thank you for the answers you have already provided, but I understand that this will be further addressed in the policy paper. I will certainly respond to it at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u97	[[.]] Minister, thank you for your answer. "Generations Without Tobacco": it is a good thing that the government has taken over this name which, let us return to Caesar what belongs to Caesar, comes from the ground and from a dynamic which has been launched, in particular, by the Anti-Tobacco Alliance and by all those who work in this fight. I am a long-time activist not only to protect non-smokers, but also to help smokers get out of addiction. In the list of projects that you have issued, there are projects that I have been carrying, for the most part, for a long time. I can tell you that I will be at your side, because there are many resistance factors. I have been suffering them for years, but I hope that all parties will pull in the same direction so that they can achieve a very strong ambition. Because, of course, there has been some progress in recent years, but, it should be recalled, when we make a benchmark, Belgium was very at the forefront of the fight against tobacco, and it is less so compared to other countries that have largely caught up with us and overtaken us. We agree that much more needs to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u98	Mr President, Minister, I am referring to the government's agreement on how to deal with overconsumption. I would also like to come back to this once the policy paper has been drawn up. However, I would like to use this question to give my reflections already, so that hopefully you will take them with you in the preparation of that policy paper. In the past, attempts have often been made to address this overconsumption, but the framework conditions have not been met. For example, your predecessor has tried to focus more on home care, but the necessary budgets have never been allocated. In this way savings could be made on the days lying down, but at the same time the extra work in home care was not compensated. In this way, over time, the pilot projects had little incentive to continue, because a sector that contributes to tackling waste also relies on the additional work being carried out. I hope you will take this into account in your exercise. If we are talking about shifting budgets, the necessary resources must also be put in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u99	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, my administration and staff have not had time to prepare an answer to your question, but I will give you a very brief general reflection. Mrs Van Camp, you yourself explained your approach. I listened very carefully and found it very interesting. I do not think we differ in terms of starting points. Increasing efficiency is still extremely important, as is making an efficiency exercise. You have pointed out a number of elements, such as duration of hospital stay versus outpatient care and continuity between one and the other. That's all gonna be on the agenda. That's what you feel in the coalition agreement. I do believe that we should have a transversal approach, including in considering the use of budgetary resources. I hope you will feel that this is the inspiration in the coalition agreement. I think this is also the inspiration you have. We have been given additional resources in the healthcare budget to enable such a transition to a more efficient organisation, but I do not want to say more about this today, because I would start by talking very specifically about what that means. I say that here a little à l'improviste, but it is an idea that is still in my head, and perhaps in yours. With the experience we have gained from the corona crisis, we will have to rethink and rethink many things, including the hospital, the outpatient care and the transition between one and the other, and the role of the institutions that belong to the powers of the communities, such as housing centres, home care and home care. I do not want to improvise, but I have the feeling that we can agree on what you say as a general starting point, but I think we will have to implement it considerably later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u100	Minister, that is the answer I wanted to hear from you. I am pleased that you have listened to my reflection, shared my vision and want to take this into account in the policy paper and further policy. That's something your predecessor has gone wrong. She often had the right intentions, but the effect on the terrain remained out. When I hear you, I'm sure you'll have the right mindset. I hope it works that way this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u101	Mr Minister, I also read that you have the ambition to look at the wage supplements. As far as hospitals are concerned, this is also definitely negotiable for the N-VA. However, that exercise has already been made in the past. It is then very important to note that the fees in hospitals today almost have to be charged in order to be profitable. Especially in corona times, hospitals are having an extra hard time. Apart from that, they do not have the appropriate structural basic funding, which means that they have to charge effectively things like pay supplements almost to keep their heads above water and to provide patients with care. I would therefore like to hear from you reassuring words about the ambition to look at the pay supplements and that they will always be accompanied by the necessary compensation in terms of resources, for example for the hospital sector and in particular for the care staff. I am not talking about the funds already released by Parliament and the government for the care sector, but additional. If we really want to make the exercise of the salary supplements, it is negotiable for the N-VA, but only if they are also compensated in terms of other sources of funding for basic funding for the healthcare institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u102	I will give you a very brief answer, because I want to have access to it. The reward supplements are indeed swinging out of the pan. That's a big problem. It is also a central issue in the coalition agreement and in my agenda. It would be frivolous not to look at this in conjunction with the funding of hospitals. That's how we have to look at it, and that's what makes it difficult. I won't say much about that now either. It must be considered in connection with the need for adequate funding of hospitals. What this means in concrete terms and how it should be worked out in concrete terms, I will not improvise on that at this time. I will certainly come back to that many times in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u103	I understand that, but for me it is certainly enough that you want to make the link in this exercise, with sufficient basic funding. Those were the reassuring words I was waiting for.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u104	Mr Minister, we will deal with one more question. We understand your busy agenda, as we do Mrs De Block, but we would like to insist on making sufficient time available to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u105	Minister, I believe that you have already made a great deal of time available to us. If it's okay, we'll say it, too. With my last question, I would like to reassure you in particular with regard to the HBO 5 profile. I read in the coalition agreement that the government wants to build that profile into a full and own profile. This means that HBO 5 will compete with the Bachelor's programme. Can you clarify that already? The coalition agreement talks about a full profile. Does it mean that the HBO 5s will be given the title of nurse? That is the same title as the Bachelor's, unless their title would be upgraded. If the HBO 5 is called nurse, what about the European test? If they both retain the same title, it will of course be difficult to find a lot of motivation in the field to obtain the same title through a four-year Bachelor's programme or through an HBO 5 programme. Can you say more about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u106	I must disappoint you, because I have the same general answer. It is still early in the legislature. The basic principles for the text of the coalition agreement are clear. Many years ago I was Minister of Education and I launched HBO5 with great ambition. I thought that was extremely important, but I regret that it took a lot of time, before HBO5 was rolled out in Flanders, but that is the way it is. The idea of HBO5 was always to effectively provide between the sports of the educational ladder something that was not a bachelor, but was higher than the current secondary and post-secondary education, something in between, so. Indeed, this raises many questions concerning its specific role, its title and its European interpretation. I think that's a nice, but difficult challenge. It is very important to have enough small steps on the educational ladder, along which people can climb up. But it must be clear that the sports on the ladder are not the same: HBO5 is not a professional bachelor, that must remain clear. I assume that we will still have to have quite a lot of discussions on this with all possible actors and policy makers. I don't want to anticipate that right now. In any case, the present challenge must be met. We will probably talk about this again often in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u107	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u108	Minister, I just wanted to express my concern. I wish, of course, that the questions do not accumulate. However, we understand that you have a busy agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u109	It's a bit difficult today, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u110	Minister, we are counting on your presence next Tuesday so that we can follow up on the topicality of COVID-19, because there will be a lot to say about that, I am afraid.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u111	Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic283x.u112	Have a good night, everyone.
