ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u1	Colleagues, we are starting this afternoon's meeting with a lot of questions for Minister Muylle. We will begin with the topical debate on the handling of cancelled journeys. There are 14 questions about that. Some colleagues have tabled more than one question. I propose that the honourable Member who is speaking should put all the questions at once. We are proposing two minutes of speaking time per person. If you have more questions, try to limit speaking time to three minutes. We don't run too long like this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u2	Minister, among the consequences of the VOCID-19 crisis, many citizens have seen their package trips cancelled by tour operators. In order to protect these businesses, you made a Ministerial Order that came into force on March 20, 2020, to allow them to offer a coupon instead of a refund. On 25 March, Commissioner Reynders told you that these temporary measures did not comply with European legislation. The Commissioner stressed that "the traveller must be able to have the choice (...) be reimbursed or receive a voucher". In accordance with these remarks, you have amended the Ministerial Order dated April 3rd, stating that "the voucher which is not used by the traveller within one year of its issue is refunded upon request. The travel organiser has a six-month period for reimbursement." However, tour operators cancelled package travel starting before March 20 and issued refund invoices as a result of these cancellations, guaranteeing consumers a refund in cash at no cost "in the next few days". These invoices, sometimes issued several weeks before the publication of the Ministerial Order, contractually oblige these companies to reimburse the consumers concerned. Minister, can you confirm to me that the Ministerial Order allows travel organizers to issue vouchers for all trips cancelled due to the coronavirus crisis from the date of its publication? Can you confirm to me that those tour operators who cancelled package travel that started before March 20, 2020, and who issued reimbursement invoices as a result of these cancellations prior to the coming into force of the Ministerial Order, must honour their commitment to the consumers concerned? There is no legal basis in these ministerial orders that allows tour operators to act retroactively and circumvent their contractual commitments to their clients.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister, with the ministerial decision of 19 March, the coronavoucher was created. It suspends the compulsory reimbursement of package travel for three months and makes it possible to issue a voucher equivalent to the amount paid by the traveller for the package journey. If the voucher is not exchanged after one year, reimbursement is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u4	Mr President, I will put my questions orally because I would like to add something else. Madam Minister, we read in the press that the Belgian Government is calling on the European Commission to abandon the compulsory reimbursement of airline tickets if a flight had to be cancelled because of the corona crisis. The affected passengers would be compensated with a voucher. We have already had a lot of discussions on this in this committee. In an earlier reply, you said that you and your colleague, Mr Bellot, had taken the initiative to address this issue and to ask for clarification quickly. I understand that the Belgian Government at least wants to have certainty about the voucher system, but a refund must always be possible. That's our opinion, isn't it? A voucher is a good solution for the travel sector and for many consumers, but unfortunately not for everyone. We must ensure that we do not weaken our consumer rights with this measure. What is the Belgian Government's position? Is it true that Belgium only wants to offer a voucher and has also discussed it with Europe? In your previous reply, you said that you and your colleague, Mr Bellot, took an initiative. What initiative are we talking about? Despite the many debates, there is still a lot of uncertainty about the vouchers. For example, it is not clear to us whether costs may also be charged, which will then be deducted from the voucher. It is about administrative costs, file costs and so on. As a result, the amount of the voucher would ultimately be a lot lower than the cost of the organised journey. Finally, whoever bought his tickets via a resale site, i.e. through platforms that purchase a lot of tickets and then resell them at very low prices, has a lot of problems with the refund. One gets very little information, also about a voucher. Even that doesn't seem to work. Do you have any idea of this problem, because these consumers are threatening to fall out of the boat?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u5	Madam Minister, many Belgians had already booked a package trip for the summer holidays before the corona crisis and paid a substantial advance. They still have no clarity as to whether or not this package journey will be able to continue. The tour operators, such as TUI Belgium, have not yet cancelled the planned trips in July and August. A consumer then has three options. Firstly, the consumer can cancel his own trip and pay a cancellation fee. Secondly, he can exchange his trip for another trip, but only trips can be booked until the end of March 2021. Booking a new summer holiday for 2020-2021 is not yet possible. So this is not a solution for many families. Thirdly, the consumer can wait until a decision is made whether his journey is continuing or not. Many consumers are also concerned about this last track. A lot of travelers simply don't want to go on a trip anymore, because probably the same service will not be available. How can social distancing be guaranteed on the plane, in the pool, at the buffets and so on? At least it won't give you the same holiday feeling. Many travellers therefore wonder whether the tour operators are obliged to ensure that the quality of the trip will be equivalent to what was stated at the time of booking before the corona crisis. What rights does the consumer have if quality and service are not the same? Can there be free cancellation and exchange? What obligations should the tour operator fulfil? In addition, I had asked for a number of figures on the voucher scheme and I am looking at your response to the European recommendation. I will not go into that in detail. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u6	Madam Minister, I am not going to repeat everything that has been said by my colleagues and try to address the essentials. This is of course a subject that affects many of our citizens and concerns consumer law. That is why we are being questioned. My question has two parts, first the vouchers and the fact that tour operators view them differently. As Test-Achats has indicated, some already fragile consumers are financially affected by all the consequences of the crisis. There is the ministerial decree of 19 March and the recommendations of the European Commission, the amendment to the ministerial decree of 3 April, the statements of Commissioner Didier Reynders on 13 May, stating that our country could still "be in breach of Union law on the compulsory reimbursement of a tour operator's cancelled trip". Where are we today, minister? How do you intend to implement these recommendations of the European Commission, particularly with regard to package travel? Do you still intend to adapt the ministerial decree, which has already evolved, in order to comply as closely as possible with European legislation in this field? The second element relates to the costs sometimes charged by tour operators when requesting vouchers. Some TOs would consider that they are entitled to deduct these costs (of record, insurance) in so far as they are not part of the trip itself. Do they have the right to deduct these expenses? Can these costs be deducted from the total value of the amount already paid by the traveller? What are the costs involved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u7	I give the floor to Mrs Verhelst, who is just in time to put her question in the topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u8	Mr President, Minister, as we know, the corona crisis has a significant impact on the journeys made. In your capacity as Minister, you chose the system with the vouchers that the consumer could use. For individual airline tickets, the traveller is entitled to a full refund in case of cancellation of the flight under the European regulation. As this is a matter of European law, Belgium cannot deviate from it. You have called on the European Commission to temporarily withdraw from this refund and to allow the alternative to proceed with the voucher. For package travel, regulated by national and Belgian legislation but subject to a transposition of European directives, you decided to suspend the compulsory reimbursement. As an alternative to the refund, the traveller received the voucher. If he didn't use the voucher, he could still ask for the refund. The European Commission gave its opinion on the voucher system on 13 May. It was confirmed that consumers are always entitled to reimbursement. Member States that do not comply risk further steps. However, vouchers may be offered if voluntary and if there are guarantees of insolvency of the affected undertakings. That's the framework. I therefore have the following questions for you. Did you receive the letter from the European Commission on the issue you announced on 13 May 2020? Has there been any informal contact with your services? Is the arrangements you have made for the package travel in line with the European Commission's statements? More specifically, can the possible repayment be postponed by one year? Will you adapt the package travel scheme and develop a protective mechanism against possible insolvency? Is the Guarantee Fund all right to travel? Does this mean that passengers are entitled to a refund in case of cancellation of individual airline tickets and should not therefore accept a voucher?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your many questions. It is true that the Ministerial Decision of 19 March 2020 is in line with the Law of 21 November 2017 on the sale of package travel, linked travel arrangements and travel services. It is the organiser who commits to the implementation of the package travel agreement. It is therefore he who, when he cannot ensure the execution, decides to cancel and has obligations with regard to the traveller. It is therefore logical that he should be responsible for issuing a voucher. It is equally logical that the voucher can be used for the purchase of one of the products he offers. I did not receive any signal from the area that a traveller who received a voucher from a tour operator could not use it to make a new reservation via his travel agent. As indicated, the voucher must be used to purchase a product from the travel organizer who issued it. Under the conditions explained above, the traveller can therefore freely use the voucher for the booking of any product from the offer of the tour operator. The latter should not impose any restrictions on this use and cannot therefore require the same airline to book again. To clarify, this answer only refers to cancelled package travel. The situation is different when it comes to a voucher because of a cancelled plane ticket, seat only. There is no cover for this through insolvency insurance, such as for package travel. The voucher is the equivalent of the amounts paid by the traveller for the cancelled package trip. It therefore does not cover any other services such as additional insurance (travel assistance, baggage, cancellation) that have been purchased outside the package travel contract. This regulation is the same as that applied to the insurer that covers insolvency in the event of bankruptcy. No cost may be charged for the granting or use of the voucher. I informed European Commissioner Reynders on the day of the Ministerial Decision of 19 March 2020. There was an exchange of letters afterwards and on 15 April I informed him of the changes to the decision which I had decided on in response to his comments. I was therefore confident that the amended rules met the Commission's expectations. I will not hide my disappointment at the narrow legal position taken by the Commission in its recommendations of 13 May 2020. At all costs, I would like to avoid the sector going bankrupt collectively because of narrow legal principles which cannot take into account an exceptional situation that affects all economic sectors in the European Union and which no one could foresee. In the meantime, last Friday, I received a joint letter from the Commissioners for Consumer Affairs and Transport and this week I will give a reply to the European Commissioner. However, I remain convinced that the proposed regulation, which, in my view, protects the traveller much better in the event of a cancellation, is entirely in line with the objectives of the European directive. I hope that the Commission will take note of the arguments I have already put forward in my previous letters, which I will now supplement. I cannot, of course, anticipate the Commission's decision. On 16 April 2020, together with Mr Bellot, I sent a joint letter to the European Commissioner for Transport. In this we expressed our support for the request of a number of Member States to amend the regulation on air passenger rights in the light of the coronapandemic. However, the European Commission's recommendations on vouchers also apply to cancelled airline tickets. The Commission therefore does not seem to be aware of the problematic situation of the airlines in this area either. It is up to the Minister of Mobility to further analyse this matter and, where appropriate, to provide for measures for the sector. As regards the application of the ministerial decree which establishes the right for the tour operator to issue a voucher, this right applies to any cancellation from 20 March due to the coronavirus pandemic. The organiser also has this right for previous cancellations for which a refund had not been made as of 20 March 2020. On Monday, 25 May 2020, the sector presented to me a study to assess the impact of the corona pandemic. The various professional organisations have questioned their members. Not all travel organisations have yet responded, but according to the replies already received, a total of 100,693 vouchers were issued up to that day, amounting to EUR 174,5 million. More and more relaxations are envisaged for travel and tourism. If the restrictions are largely lifted and travel is re-enabled, it is unlikely to be necessary to maintain the voucher scheme. In my view, it is too early today to make a decision on this. In fact, the current ministerial decision runs until 19 June 2020. The European position will also play a role in this decision-making process. Other Member States, including France, the Netherlands, Spain, Portugal, Denmark, Greece, the Czech Republic and Lithuania, have indeed worked out the same arrangements and we have contacted them. We are striving for cooperation in this area, but that is not easy, because everyone is giving answers to the Commission from their own point of view. However, it would be useful to put our arguments on the table together. When a traveller has booked with a foreign tour operator, it will depend on the arrangement in the country which the correct consequences of a cancellation are. The voucher issued to travellers whose package trip was cancelled because of corona is covered by the insolvency insurance. That is so settled in my ministerial decision of 19 March 2020. If the company goes bankrupt, the insurer will refund the vouchers. Because of the extremely heavy impact of the coronavirus pandemic on the travel sector, it seems to me very unlikely that travel organizers would attribute a lot of additional benefits to the voucher. In this respect, the recommendations of the European Commission seem to me rather theoretical, but it is of course up to travel companies to judge what their commercial policy will be. As far as TUI's action is concerned, this is purely commercial action. It is obvious that the tour operator must keep to the offer that is made. There is still a great deal of uncertainty about any rules or restrictions that will be imposed, once travel becomes possible again. It may also be a good thing that the traveller waits until there is more insight into the situation. It is not the first time that I have said this: if you are making a commitment today, you should always check whether a journey can be cancelled or whether you can cover yourself by means of a refund. The basic principle remains that the organiser must carry out the package journey as agreed. The rule of force majeure where unforeseen and exceptional circumstances significantly impede the enjoyment of a package journey at the place of destination or in its surroundings shall also continue to apply. When a country first imposes a two-week quarantine period, it seems clear to me that there is a situation of force majeure which should allow the cancellation of the package journey without compensation. Travel advice is provided by the FPS Foreign Affairs. That is important, but it is not the only element to assess the situation of force majeure. For Mrs Van Bossuyt's specific questions on travel advice, I would like to refer to Mr Goffin. With regard to Mrs Van Bossuyt's question on the correct provision of information on the voucher scheme by the travel sector, I can say the following. The voucher that was not spent by the traveller within one year of issue shall be refunded on demand. The organiser shall then have a period of six months for reimbursement. This information must also be available to the consumer so that he cannot be misled about his options. To date, the Economic Inspectorate has received notifications against a dozen parcel travel providers. Most detectors contest the principle of the voucher control itself. The number of notifications of a non-compliant voucher is limited. To date, the Economic Inspectorate had to take corrective action against a single travel organisation, which immediately regulated itself. The other reports are still under investigation. In the short term, I would like to set up a task force with the SPF Economy and the professional organisations in the sector, in order to be able to give as many answers as possible to the concrete situations that will arise in the coming months. I have asked the organisations to provide the necessary information. This information for the benefit of travellers and travel companies can then be published on the SPF Economie website. The government remains in favour of the decision, because it is convinced that the measures taken today are much better protected by the traveller. Without these measures, a traveler who wants to cancel a package trip and ask for his money back would stand in line as one of the many creditors in the event of a bankruptcy of the travel agency. Then there's no cover. If he does accept the voucher scheme, he'll always be covered by the Guarantee Fund Travel. That's not unimportant. The government continues to defend this strong argument with the European Commission. Besides, I personally believe that the European Commission is blowing cold and hot at the same time. A letter insists that consumers should have the freedom of choice, but it also states that the public authorities must make every effort to make the voucher attractive and therefore acceptable. The European Commission has asked the Member States for information and several Member States have already replied. Belgium will do so today or tomorrow; the deadline is end of this week. It will probably send back a letter with additional questions depending on its position. In any case, Belgium continues to support its decision, which, by the way, has been discussed in very intense contacts with the travel sector. Hopefully, the Commission is convinced of the arguments put forward by Belgium, because the scheme offers the best protection both for the sector and for the traveller himself.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u10	Minister, thank you for your response, which, as often, was very detailed. In any case, I received an answer to my questions. I also understand, because this is not the first time that I have asked you about this issue, that it is still subject to change over time and also as you interact with the European Commission. I will therefore not fail to dissect your long answer in order to look for the elements that related to my question but also to the questions of colleagues, because it was indeed very interesting to be able to take stock of the situation. Madam Minister, I will come back to you in a few weeks, after your forthcoming discussions with the European Commission, to see how this theme has evolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u11	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I agree with you that the travel sector is one of the sectors very badly affected by the corona crisis and that it can use all the support, but I have not received any answers to a number of questions. Or else I didn't hear the answer. Among other things, it's about the plane tickets. In the tourism package with recommendations published by the European Commission last week, the Commission proposes the introduction of a voucher system for airline tickets, including insolvency cover. That is new, because until now it has only been for package travel, but the Commission is now recommending that we do the same for airline tickets. Unless I haven't heard, you haven't said that our government will provide a system of vouchers for airline tickets with insolvency cover. What I have not heard is whether you will follow the Commission's recommendations on vouchers, for example on the validity period, but also on the transferability of those vouchers. The Commission has said that the voucher must be transferable to another person. Finally, you did not answer my question about tour operators who charge consumers additional file costs when they receive such a voucher. We have been informed that different tour operators charge administrative costs to consumers for other things, because they believe that they are, in the strict sense of the word, separate from the journey, which I do not think is correct. I would like to have an answer to these questions, which I have indeed asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u12	Mrs Van Bossuyt, I will give the floor to the Minister later, but I would like to point out from her facial expression that she did answer those questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u13	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your comprehensive reply. I too think there is a question that I have not received an answer to, so I will try it through the reply. Your answer was, of course, very long and detailed, so maybe we didn't get it all. I was wondering whether the voucher could be charged costs, which could then be deducted from the voucher. Secondly, what about customers who bought tickets via a resale site? As an example, I was named the website kiwi.nl. The Belgian kiwi.be may be linked to that Dutch platform. Belgian consumers also seem to be buying massive airline tickets via such platforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u14	Kiwi.nl is the parent company of kiwi.be. For purchases via the Internet one always looks at the parent company in the country of origin, so here it is covered by Dutch law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u15	The consumer must therefore be consulted there to exercise his rights. Thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u16	The Minister has promised to be disciplined and to give the still missing answers in the end. I give the floor to the other Members to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u17	Madam Secretary, I will not claim that I have not heard some things. I've heard a lot, and that makes me happy. The most important thing I have heard is that you have decided that consumers and the travel sector should be as protected as possible. That is the main message for me and I am very grateful for it. I also think it is very important that you push your voice even harder at European level, which makes it not a legal game, but an economically fair game, defending the interests of both businesses and consumers, just as we do at this committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u18	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive explanation. Together with you, I am convinced that the Belgian voucher scheme is a good arrangement that protects the traveller better in case of cancellation. I hope that the European Commission will continue to support you in this. If the restrictions are lifted, the voucher scheme is no longer necessary, because then you can travel again. Nevertheless, I am in favour of continued good protection for consumers. The people have booked a trip and they only want to travel under the agreed conditions. If that is not possible, then there must be the possibility to cancel or exchange the trip free of charge. People should be able to travel with peace of mind and determination. If the journey goes differently than the one booked, the traveller should certainly not suffer from it and then the journey should be exchanged free of charge for a new summer trip next year. I would like to hear you confirm once again that the scheme is intended to be effective in this way. You have answered the many questions in detail, but the situation can change from day to day. That is why I propose that a FAQ be published on the website of the FPS Economy, so that travellers can go there. I myself have already called our tour operator, and I sometimes get the feeling that they are being sent a little from the cabinet to the wall. Apparently, it is very difficult to obtain clear information as a consumer. You bring us a lot of information here, you are very transparent. I hope that this can also be done for consumers, because they have every right to do so. Thank you again for your detailed explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u19	Minister, thank you for your full answers. As far as vouchers are concerned, you recalled that there may be a guarantee in the event of bankruptcy, but consumers in difficulty still prefer to obtain liquidity. This is an important subject because it affects a number of our fellow citizens financially. You have cited other countries, including France, the Netherlands and Spain. Will a joint response be envisaged in relation to the European Commission? Will the measures that you are advocating here through royal decrees be found in these countries or does each one do as he pleases? Finally, it seems to me that you did not reply with regard to the additional costs associated with the voucher. Can fees be deducted by tour operators on vouchers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u20	Mr Van Lommel has asked to intervene in the topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u21	Mr President, Minister, it is of course a difficult balance. On the one hand, the consumer, who wants his money back and, on the other hand, has the travel organisation which is not at present having an easy time and does not want its cash flow to be compromised. Above all, we must ensure that we do not get into any legal problems and that this remains watertight in the coming period. If consumers collectively ring the bell, perhaps we can start dancing on a weak cord. I did not put a question on this this time, because if I took my question back from March, I could submit it back in its entirety. I then questioned you about the statements made by Commissioner Didier Reynders on whether or not to require that travel cheque. I believe that today's debate on the substance has been similar and I understand that we need to protect this sector as much as possible today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u22	Mr President, I think I have a small problem, because my answer was partly in French. My French probably won't be that easy to comprehend. I think it's a little hard to write. It says literally: "The voucher represents the equivalent of the amounts paid by the traveller for the cancelled package travel." If you have made a reservation for a trip of 2,000 euros, you will have a voucher of 2,000 euros at no other cost. So we will actually get 2,000 euros back. It is therefore not appropriate to charge any costs. If you know files that charge charges, you must immediately pass this on to the FPS Economy hotline, because this cannot be done. What one does not have to give back in the travel cheque are the items that one ordered extra on the trip, such as cancellation insurance, travel assistance, extra luggage. These are things that have been paid to a third party. However, charges for administrative handling should not be charged. For example, if you opt for the voucher, you should not charge EUR 50 for the administrative handling. Mrs. Van Bossuyt, you had a question about the plane tickets. This is a competence of Minister Bellot, but that is also my concern from the point of view of consumer affairs. If plane tickets are booked separately from a package trip, they must be reimbursed in accordance with European legislation. However, we all know that all European airlines, Brussels Airlines, Lufthansa, KLM, Air France, Ryanair, give vouchers to consumers. I hope that the European Commission is as clear to the airlines as it is to the Member States. There is also no insolvency insurance. We can't take loose plane tickets to the Guarantee Fund Travel. Nor is it possible to set up such a system now for things that have happened in the past. I suspect you're at home in insurance law, Mrs. Van Bossuyt. That is not obvious, because there is no more risk. The damage's already been done. One could possibly do this in the future. The Guarantee Fund Travel is, of course, also a sector fund. The government is not a party to this but facilitates. However, it is being fed by the sector. The sector is therefore free to make agreements on this matter today. However, Mrs Van Bossuyt, I am looking at the situation today, both in the aviation sector and in the travel sector. There will be questions about that later. I had a call with the travel sector on Monday. I'm looking at the losses and the revenue losses they've suffered. After all, it is not just about private travel but also about business travel. The sector is still expecting a very heavy impact, perhaps even for a very long period, but certainly until April 2021, on the bookings that are currently underway. There is therefore not much room for a guarantee fund to be provided today. What I am convinced of is that the government will have to take additional measures for the travel sector. Mrs Depraetere, you have stated that this is the website of the parent company, kiwi.nl. I didn't know it. We were wondering what you were talking about. I also know that ticket auctions exist, which can also be offered on overnight stays. However, these are Dutch websites. It is therefore the Dutch legislation that applies to it. Mrs Dierick, Members must be aware of current and future legislation. After all, it is pointed out that people should be able to rebook in a carefree manner next summer. However, we must be very careful. From a certain period, there will no longer be a situation of force majeure. Suppose Europe allows travel from 15, 19, 20 or 21 June 2020, for example, in the Schengen countries. I've had some contacts over the past two weeks in another dossier with Lufthansa. It will be looked at there to restart European flights from 15 June 2020. If, from a given point of view, the travel advice can be retraced to those countries, the travel advice will also be linked to them, this means that there is no longer a situation of force majeure. In that case, the voucher or voucher must no longer be given as it is given today. Then there is no longer a corona situation of force majeure and one is actually in the normal situation, in which, for example, a package trip can always be cancelled. One can choose to offer a voucher system, but that depends on whether we extend our regulations. If we do not renew them, the consumer is entitled to a refund. Of course, he may also have to pay compensation. That's the arrangement that's in place today. I also see, Mrs Dierick, that various tour operators, such as TUI and others, have already decided to offer for all July and August trips the opportunity to rebook at another time or to give a travel cheque for another time. If the journey would be more expensive in the future, they would even want to pay some of that extra cost, but these are purely commercial actions from the travel sector which are actually outside the force majeure situation that we know today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u23	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I think that may have answered all the questions, in Dutch and French.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u24	Madam Minister, agriculture and food security are at risk from the global corona crisis, even here in Belgium. The World Food Organisation, the World Health Organisation and the World Trade Organisation have recently raised the alarm about this. They called on governments to ensure that the food chain is not disturbed by measures against the spread of the corona virus. There are several problems. In Europe, harvests and the food industry are under threat, because migrant workers cannot travel freely and border formalities delay freight transport. However, the internal market is a major driver of our prosperity and must therefore be protected as far as possible. We also see hamster behavior among citizens and countries, which are massively building up their own food supplies. This reduces their exports, which can quickly lead to shortages on the world market. Demand is rising while supply is stalling. We therefore believe it is necessary, on the basis of forecasts, to ensure that precautions are taken and that any remedial measures are taken in order to ensure food security. Firstly, can we assess the impact of the corona crisis on domestic food production and Belgian agriculture in particular? If so, what are the estimates? Secondly, to what extent is security of supply and food? Do you foresee necessary interventions? What about cooperation with the Länder? What about cooperation at European level? Thirdly, do we have instruments to ensure that, in the event of a decline in food security, a certain strategic production is retained as a priority for our own consumption? Are there any criteria for determining when to do so? Finally, do you have an insight into the impact of the corona crisis on exports? In which sectors do you see the most problems? Do you plan necessary interventions there? What about cooperation with the Länder and cooperation at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u25	Mrs Gijbels, the Economic Risk Management Group (ERMG) was mandated by the Prime Minister's Chancery to manage the economic and macroeconomic risk associated with the COVID-19 crisis. At ERMG, the Business Continuity Task Force was established, led by Piet Vanthemsche. This task force carried out an end-to-end survey of the Belgian food chain between the end of March and the beginning of April. The survey shows that there are a number of concerns in the Belgian agri-food sector, such as staffing and personal protective equipment. However, there are no blocking problems caused by the corona crisis. Security of supply and food security are therefore not at risk. The review is updated every 14 days by the Business Continuity Task Force. I can confirm that workers who are temporarily unemployed due to force majeure due to corona can be employed in agriculture, horticulture and forestry. They retain 75% of their unemployment benefit. They can also work as temporary workers in one of these three sectors. That possibility runs until the end of May. The Council of Ministers will be presented with a view to extending the arrangements. If exceptional circumstances or events endanger or may jeopardise the proper functioning of the economy in whole or in part, I, as Minister for Economic Affairs, can take measures. Article 18 of the Economic Law Code allows me to prohibit, regulate or control, inter alia, the production and preparation of certain products. However, that is premature. As I have already said, the monitoring of the Business Continuity Task Force shows that there are no problems with food security and supply. A number of sectors of food production are more dependent on exports than others. These include the fruit, vegetables and milk sectors. It is too early at the moment to get a complete picture of the actual impact on these sectors in terms of exports. This also depends on the measures taken by importing countries in the context of the reduction of the lockdown. I will ask ERMG and the Business Continuity Task Force to follow up on the issue and, where necessary, to make proposals. Further information is available from the Länder, which, as you pointed out, are responsible for agriculture. They are also represented in ERMG. Together with Mr Ducarme, who is Federally responsible for Agriculture, they are looking at what can be done further at European level. We will also continue to raise the issue in the Competitiveness Council (COMPET) when it is on the European agenda. For more sector-specific information, your colleagues in the Flemish Parliament may ask additional questions; Mr Ducarme will certainly be able to tell you more about the specific situation in agriculture.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u26	Madam Secretary, the temporary employment of the unemployed is a very good measure. I am now hearing that it may be extended, and that is a good thing, because that way those companies can at least stay at work. However, I would like to stress once again the importance of a level playing field for the various countries. After all, we should not impose more stringent requirements on our own producers than those we apply to products we import. Hopefully we will be able to give sufficient support to our own agriculture and food production in this crisis, so that soon, when the market is normalized, we can get back to work. Thank you for your efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u27	Mrs. Depoorter, you may ask your three questions together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u28	Mr President, I will put my questions at once. Madam Secretary, my questions concern the export of personal protective equipment in the corona crisis. I know that a number of questions have already been answered by your colleagues. Madam Secretary, since 15 March 284 export licences have been granted. How is it that our country continues to issue export licences in times of major shortages of personal protective equipment? I know there is a hub in Charleroi, and I have heard from previous answers that some of the materials go to humanitarian shipments, but not all of them. I would therefore like to know which non-humanitarian consignments have been authorised. Which companies are these and how much protective equipment are they talking about? I read in the European Commission's report that it concerns 151 000 mouth masks, 17 000 protective suits and 2,600 protective glasses in one week. That's a lot. Is that a trend that has continued throughout the corona crisis? Why is that? What type of companies apply for export licences? How come we have not acted as with chloroquine and other medications? After all, Chloroquine was confiscated. Before pharmacists could deliver chloroquine, they had to be allowed to do so. How is it that the government has still allowed those export licences in times of major shortages rather than initially taking care of our care providers? Finally, I have a question about the more than 20 million missing mouth masks at Comeos. On 22 April there appeared to be a stock of 35 million mouth masks, which would be distributed by the pharmacists. There was a deal with the pharmacists. On 25 April it appeared that the stock at Comeos was still 12 million mouth masks. So 20 million mouth masks were exported. That is of course (...), so you will not have permits (...) but do you have any idea where those mouth masks went? Did you investigate that and do you have a report on it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u29	Madam Minister, since mid-March 284 authorisations have been issued to export mouth masks, glasses and other protective equipment to countries outside the EU. Madam Secretary, is this information correct? What kind of export licences are we talking about? Based on what elements were they delivered? I have already heard things like humanitarian aid, contractual obligations and so on, but I would have liked to have more text and explanation. As a minister, were you aware of the delivery of those permits? How much protection is it about right?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u30	Madam Secretary, my questions are quite detailed. We note that there has been a shortage of materials since the lockdown, while many permits have been issued during that period. An export ban has been in force since 15 March, and the regulation provides that when a licence is issued, it must also be notified to Europe. Is it true that 116 licences were issued with the label "contractual or commercial obligations"? 103 licences would also be "humanitarian," 56 "intracompany," between companies, and 9 would be "consignments to family." Do those numbers make sense? What exactly do these labels mean? For which countries was the label 'humanitarian'? Which materials exactly were we talking about? Can you indicate to what extent this material was produced in Belgium, or material for which Belgium served mainly as a transit country when issuing the licence? How many mouth masks and other protective equipment are we talking about? The next question is an important question, Madam Secretary. Have licences been granted to countries which have delayed or stopped material intended for Belgium? Which countries are they? Has communication been made to the European Union on licensing? Will it be published by Europe? When? As a result, can you specify the quantities specifically for the period between 15 March and 26 April? Which destination countries were they talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u31	Mrs Depoorter also has her question No. 55005864C, which was initially later on the agenda. However, that is not a problem at all. I can answer that question now. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to inform you that, following the extension to 25 May, the European Commission has chosen not to extend the application of the regulation for a further period. The export of the protective equipment covered by this regulation outside our customs union has therefore no longer been subject to an export licence since Monday. I also deeply regret that last month a link was made between the export licences under the EU regulation and the delivery of Chinese mouth masks that were implemented. Monaco is a member of our customs union and is exempt from export licences under EU Regulation No. 2020/402 for personal protective equipment. The Regulation imposes an export authorisation requirement, not transit. Consequently, I do not have the data on the transit of personal protective equipment. The application of Regulation No. 2020/402 of 15 March 2020 should be speeded up. There are strict deadlines for Member States to deal with the application, with companies entitled to a reply within 5 days. The Director-General of the FPS Economy has set up an advisory group with representatives of the FPS Economy, Customs, Public Health, FAGG and Foreign Affairs to examine whether the applications fell within the scope of the Regulation and met the exceptions provided for in Article 2.3, in the event of market scarcity, etc. Since that question could only be answered on the substance by the Shortages Task Force and the purchasing group around Minister De Backer, they were also involved from 1 April. The licences were issued by the FPS Economy on the basis of an interpretation validated by the opinions of the exceptions to the Regulation. Mr Crombez referred to figures, but these were somewhat more recent figures. A total of 356 export licences were issued over the entire period, of which two were cancelled because the shipment for Doctors Without Borders could not continue and one at the request of the public prosecutor. I'll give you the numbers later. Belgium also gave advice in the files of the Swedish, French, Luxembourg and Irish authorities respectively on applications for export of goods stored on our territory. The FPS Economy, in consultation with customs authorities, has stopped the licensing process in six files because the application of the company or organisation concerned was outside the scope of the Regulation. For 14 licence applications, all concerning intercompany movements, the application was withdrawn by the company concerned, after requests for additional information by the FPS Economy. No licence was therefore issued. In the case of 25 files, the FPS Economy and Customs are currently investigating irregularities or infringements of the Regulation. In the final analysis, 353 licences issued were dealt with in four categories of arguments as follows. Firstly, 130 humanitarian files, 127 of which were for Doctors Without Borders. Those files contain the most diverse items, including 139,415 FFP2 masks. The Regulation is clear and provides that these applications must be granted. It concerns, with three exceptions, files from Doctors Without Borders. Secondly, 8 family files and gifts with coveralls and 174 FFP2 mouth masks. The number and volumes of those files are particularly minimal. For humanitarian reasons, they were also approved. Thirdly, 74 intracompany files for 24 companies, including 94,030 FFP2 masks and 40 FFP3 masks. De Europese Commissie stelt in haar richtlijnen betreffende de toepassing van de verordening het volgende: "If the subsidiary/related company of an exporter is located in one of the countries falling under the geographical scope of the Regulation, such exports require an export authorization. The competent authorities have however flexibility when deciding about an application for an export authorization of intracompany sales."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u32	This Directive is consistent with the decision communicated by the Chairman of the Shortages Task Force on the handling of intracompany files on 2 April, on the basis of which intracompany dispatches were authorised. The administration of the FPS Economy verified, for each consignment, whether they were indeed related companies outside the customs union, each time it was analysed whether the volumes concerned were reasonably related to the use of its own activities in that country. There were 141 commercial files, 131 for one company on multiple shipments with large volumes of mainly gloves and to a lesser extent coveralls. The implementing directives accompanying the Regulations allow for the implementation of existing contractual obligations prior to the entry into force of the Regulation. The Commission also calls for maximum support for existing value and distribution networks, of course with respect for the regulation in question. At the same time, the European Commission gives Member States a great deal of freedom of movement, which makes it possible to help ensure the availability of resources in the internal market in other ways. In this context, the De Backer Steering Committee sought maximum opportunities for the supply of Belgian needs in the large commercial files of logistics players in Belgium, which were submitted for advice by negotiation with the companies concerned, without imposing an export ban or blocking of the market. With regard to mouth masks without specification based on the PPE Regulation, 91,745 humanitarian, 271,048 intracompany, 81,501 commercial and 320 were exported as gifts. These are therefore mouth masks other than FFP2 or FFP3 masks, which do not have specifications for the protection of the wearer against potentially contagious material and which are used, for example, in the food industry. For a consignment of 250,800 mouth masks without specification, an export licence was granted at the request of the parquet. It was a return to the supplier of a consignment with non-compliant mouth masks. As far as the administration can verify, there was no Belgian production between the exported goods. Almost everything was introduced and stored here. Belgium is currently a logistics turntable. Good cooperation with the logistics chain ensures our country the permanent supply of products distributed through the distribution centres in our country. At best, blocking exports and seizures would bring temporary relief for some products, but at the same time could also bring the international logistics chain to a standstill. I will hand over a list of the companies, countries, destinations, the type of protective equipment and the numbers to the chairman of the committee. I have them in Dutch and French. In each sub-section, it states the exact content of humanitarian and commercial supplies and intra-company deliveries, and to which countries they have been delivered. All licences issued were communicated to the European Commission on a daily basis. No additional information was requested by the Commission for any dossier. To Mrs Depooster's question, which is actually outside the scope of the topical debate, I can answer that 50 licences were issued between 26 April and 3 May 2020, of which two were commercial in nature. It concerned exports of 22 operating aprons to Togo and 1 mouth mask to Turkey. The vast majority were humanitarian authorisations. In that category 22 licences were issued for the international distribution centre of Doctors Without Borders and 26 intracompany licences. The permits refer to exports of 17,408 units of protective clothing, almost all of them, in particular 17,146, in files of Doctors Without Borders, of 649 facial protective equipment, all for Doctors Without Borders, and of 155,000 mouth masks, of which 82,000 in a humanitarian context, including for Doctors Without Borders. The 26 intracompany files usually relate to small quantities. For a larger intracompany file, for which a licence for exports to several countries of 56,490 mouth masks was requested, the administration consulted the EU Clearing House after the usual national consultations, in accordance with the procedure required since 26 April 2020. The Clearing House catalogued the export as a small amount and did not provide any counter-indications, so the licence was delivered. I also took note of the article of 4 May on Knack's website, which discussed the sale of mouth masks by the retail sector, represented by Comeos. At Mrs Depoorter's question about the mouth masks at the grocery stores that were present at the end of April and then disappeared, I can inform you that the FPS Economy has not received an export licence application because of companies in the retail sector. For questions about mouth masks, both medical masks and community masks, I can also refer you to Mr De Backer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u33	We will make the documents of Mrs Muylle available to all members of the committee via Extranet or by e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u34	Madam Secretary, 131 commercial shipments for one company is already quite a lot. Apparently, that has a pretty big impact. That company must then obtain those permits on the basis of a necessity. I would remind you, however, that Belgian carers were naked at the time and had no protection. You say a full shipment of 250,000 mouth masks is in a shipment. Those mouth masks weren't cataloged as scientific mouth masks. The care providers absolutely needed masks, even though these mouth masks were initially used for sectors other than the care sector. You say it's not Belgian production. That seems obvious to me. We have all managed to give Belgian companies a VAT disadvantage for the production of mouth masks. In the Finance and Budget Committee, VAT has now been reduced to 6% from 4 May. However, I would like to remind you that the European Commission does not charge import duties for mouth masks and Belgium supports that. However, if mouth masks are ordered in Belgium or in another European country, up to 6% will have to be paid. The Belgian companies therefore do not have a competitive position. Hence no masks should be shipped abroad. The fact that we are a logistics hub is a good thing, but our caregivers do not have a message about this at the moment. I understand when you say that this is very important in the long term. That is true, but there are other countries within the European Commission that have ensured that these protective materials remain in their own countries and go to the care providers. I would like to receive the overview from you, because I have seen countries like the United States, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Those humanitarian shipments from Doctors Without Borders to the United States, I'd like to take a look at that. As far as the 50 permits between 26 April and 4 May are concerned, out of the 150,000 mouth masks, there are still 80,000 who have not been able to go to our healthcare providers here again. I have no problem with the humanitarian shipments, but I do have a problem with the fact that we have not provided protection for our healthcare providers. As far as the wholesale stores are concerned, it is clear that Comeos customers have not applied for export licences. They all have suburbs in Europe, and that's where those mouth masks went. If the government had taken action and bought 3 mouth masks per person at 53 cents per mouth mask and the pharmacists would have given 5 cents to distribute them to our citizens, our citizens would have had protection on 25 April for 1.65 euros. This is something the government has left behind and the government has caved in under pressure from a lobby group. Madam Secretary, I would ask you to conduct an investigation into this matter. A stock that reduces from 35 million to 12 million in a non-sold country that raises at least questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u35	Mr President, Minister, everything related to mouth masks is becoming more and more a saga in Parliament. The question has been asked mainly on the basis of a great deal of concern. This concern also stems from the images we have all seen on TV and from the many testimonies of people in the healthcare sector who have fought every day. We note that there was a huge shortage, not only of mouth masks but also of protective material in general. It raises many questions that the healthcare sector has nothing at a time when such poignant scenes are taking place in this country. We are talking about export licences abroad, when we have not been able to get them ourselves, we have been delayed or we have never been able to get them. For the rest, I would very much like to look forward to the figures you have just given to the chairman of the committee. I'll be happy to look at them with a lot of attention and in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u36	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you sincerely for the detailed answer and for the clarification given in your reply, school. I would like to mention two more elements, which are somewhat in line with a number of comments made by Mrs Depooster, with which I agree. The question I raised was whether we have exported to countries which themselves stopped or hindered shipments to Belgium. After all, we were in crucial weeks in which, as the other speakers rightly said, there were shortages in the healthcare sector. We even defined our policy on the basis of the availability of masks, not only for the care sector but also for the population. I have heard Turkey mentioned. If it were the case that certain countries stopped exports to Belgium, what Turkey has done, we would have given licences to those countries, such as Turkey. As much as I thank you for the information, it is a great pity for me that it is not clear whether exports to and licences have been granted to countries that have stopped material for Belgium, which has had an impact on availability and price. Secondly, in your reply, you point out that we need to keep our interests in mind as a logistics chain in the longer term. That is a very dangerous way of dealing with the situation. The European Commission is issuing a very special regulation allowing Member States flexibility to regulate the normal functioning of the market at least. They are allowed to grant licences for all potential exports and even to deal with them flexibly and refuse them. That has a reason, namely that supply and demand are disturbed. There are sharks on the market and there are unreasonable shipments. If Belgium says that the priority is to keep our logistics chain running, then we have not looked at the balances of availability and price within our country. You can say that I am exaggerating, and that is possible, but we do not know that at the moment. I am strongly in favour of investigating what has actually happened to it, because until now, at the end of May, we are in a situation where there are still quality, price and availability problems. In many municipalities there is still no delivery to the people because there is nothing yet. Those are the two main points. Firstly, have we allowed permits to countries that were blocking funds for Belgium? Secondly, the tone was that we did not want to hinder the logistics chain too much and therefore did not use the regulation. This is a choice that may have had a serious impact, and that is a pity because the regulation has actually been put in place to ensure that Member States can make it work on their own soil. I will look at these figures in detail and I will certainly come back to this. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u37	Mr Crombez, you will find in the table that goods destined for Belgium were blocked mainly within Europe. France and Germany are the countries that have blocked most deliveries to our country. Of course, the export licence was not applicable, because it is intended for countries outside the EU. As far as exports to Turkey are concerned, this was done mainly internally within companies. In this respect, companies established in Belgium have supplied Turkey with protective glasses, coveralls and gloves in particular. So there have been only intracompany deliveries to Turkey. As far as your last comment is concerned, I suspect that you have already spoken enough about this with colleagues De Backer and De Block. What we have done with the export licences is to transpose the exceptions to the regulation in three steps, before 26 April, after 26 April, and now after 25 May, into export rules. We have done this in a transparent way, on the basis of the findings of a working group, on the basis of a continuous input from the shortages, to see whether it was possible or not. We have also reported on this every day. I can only explain that what we did was only part of the European regulation. We have applied the exceptions correctly, I believe.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u38	With regard to the first point, I would like to stick to my point that this needs to be examined. It doesn't really matter that most of the obstacles to Belgium came from Germany and France. It's not about that. It concerns the issue of whether Belgium has granted licences to other countries outside the area that have obstructed materials for Belgium, and therefore where it was possible to control demand and supply, availability for citizens, and price itself. Is that fully done or not? We must look at the figures in detail. The argument that it was mainly Germany and France is not so useful in this regard. However, I would like to thank you for your additional explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u39	Mr. Chair, Minister, VOCID-19 has become a reality. We all need to take precautions not to be contaminated. Some professional sectors will have to adapt more than others and the insurance sector is not spared. If, unfortunately, employees are not yet able to be insured against this new virus, insurance will soon have to begin to deal with this new reality as our citizens will gradually resume their work. It is done today, but I must make it clear here, Madam Minister, that my question was tabled on April 30th. Some sectors depend on these insurances because without them, given the health crisis we are experiencing, they will have to take risks, which could be fatal to them. For example, I quote the film producers, who are also very active in Flanders – it seems. When the manager or actor falls ill or dies as a result of the coronavirus, production cannot be continued and the producer will have to face costs that are, in most cases, enormous and for which insurance does not currently take place. Minister, have you engaged in discussions with the insurance sector on this matter? Is the latter aware of this very specific problem, which is not covered by the insurances covering cases of force majeure? With the resumption of work by most of the professional sectors, can we hope for some development in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u40	Colleagues, as part of the work of the Economic Risk Management Group created by the federal government to deal with the economic consequences of the coronavirus pandemic, the insurance sector has taken a number of steps to support individuals and businesses financially affected by VOCID-19. In the coming months, insurance companies will be flexible vis-à-vis their clients in difficulty and will ensure that they continue to be protected at all times. For more information on the commitments already made by the insurance sector, I refer you to my reply of 8 April 2020 to the questions raised by Mrs Verhelst and Mr Lacroix. With regard to the specific questions concerning the insurability of a pandemic, I can tell you the following. As regards the more current insurance contracts, the pandemic risk coverage varies by insurance policy. The policy holder will therefore have to review his general conditions of insurance to see if the specific claim is covered. As far as the event sector is concerned, there are a few players in the insurance market with specific policies for events, but such insurance is usually only for very large events. If such insurance has been taken out, the general and special conditions of insurance should initially be considered to see whether or not there is coverage in certain claims. However, a pandemic is an uninsurable risk in the context of a classic loss insurance scheme, as it affects all sectors in a transversal way. The amounts of compensation are so high that they cannot be covered by the insurance sector and no premium can be paid for them. The same applies to the classic company, which has to stop its business by pandemics. In addition, the insurance is limited to a future risk, so that it was no longer applicable to COOVID-19. No notifications were received at the contact point.belgie.be. Assuralia and the Ombudsman of Insurance also gave the message that they had not received any complaints. As far as a possible emergency fund is concerned, I must point out that aid to enterprises is a regional competence. For questions 5 and 6 by Mrs Houtmeyers, I would refer you to the relevant regional government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your very sincere answers. Unfortunately, I expected a slightly more optimistic message. I am not mad at you, but I was hoping that at the level of the insurance sector some spontaneous actions could be taken. To date, the majority of compensation for loss of income has been borne by the public authorities. I think that if we could also count on other sectors, it would help us to overcome this crisis and its economic consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u42	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I had hoped for a more positive message, certainly for the big events. Today it appears that some major events, such as Atmosphere or Ideal Living in Leuven, are considering putting down the books. They cannot recover all the costs they have incurred for publicity, communication and rent of the exhibition halls in any way. They are legally obliged to repay the money paid by the stockholders. This is a great tragedy for them and I am very sorry that we cannot find or offer a more structured solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u43	Mrs Jadin, on Monday the Prime Minister and I received the cultural sector. The demand for insurance, especially for the audiovisual sector, the film industry, people with film studios and people making recordings, came out very clearly there, which was also mentioned in your question. Apparently, we can't guarantee productions anymore. This problem arises mainly from the re-insurer, le réassureur, since the re-insurer does not wish to re-insure the policies. I have promised that we will contact Assuralia to find solutions so that productions can still be assured in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u44	Madam Minister, thank you. That is a pertinent remark. This is an area for which the federal government has put in place an extraordinary instrument, the tax shelter. The latter will also have to be adapted in the light of other tax provisions that have already been adopted. You're putting your finger on something important. Perhaps we can work on a fund or hope for a surge in the insurance sector in this area. It is about the survival and good health of the cultural sector in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u45	Mr President, I can no longer refer to my question, since the question is already somewhat out of date, but I will try to be brief. Traders are obliged to comply with the Act on Opening Hours 2006. Among other things, that law requires traders to observe a mandatory rest day. Many traders had to close the doors for weeks and months, so it was not unimaginable that they wanted to fly in full and would have difficulty with the mandatory rest day. Most traders were allowed to open again recently, but in no time the police were at the door, including at a ZEB store in Oudenaarde. How do you expect the Economic Inspectorate to deal with the reality of the law on opening hours? Do the merchants have to stick to that? What can they expect?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u46	Mrs Houtmeyers, it must be clear that the rules of law will continue to apply in full at these times unless temporary and specific derogations are laid down. The Economic Inspectorate will therefore monitor compliance with the legislation for which it is competent in the usual way. When there are reports of the Law of 10 November 2006 on opening hours in commerce, crafts and services, they will be analysed and, where appropriate, an investigation will be launched. I can confirm that today's inspection is particularly attentive to all kinds of practices that would emerge as a result of the coronapandemic. Where an infringement is found, the Economic Inspection shall assess, on the basis of all factual and legal information, what action should be taken on it. This could be from a warning to a criminal sanction and even a court order to close. Mrs Houtmeyers, I would like to draw your attention to the many questions I have also received. You refer to a ZEB store, which is tied to opening hours. There are exceptions, as you know. In tourist centres, for example, this can be different. I don't know if the city of Leuven did it, but other cities have a tourist center and can deviate from it, within the law of 2006. Anything covered by service is not covered by the law on opening hours. For example, I have also received many comments from barbers who opened again and who wanted to open on Saturdays and Sundays for two or three weeks. However, they are bound by labour law in relation to their employees. They themselves can open as self-employed, without being tied to opening hours. We also got a lot of questions why hairdressers were allowed to work suddenly on a Sunday or holiday, but this can be done. This is not bound by the law on opening hours, which concerns only shops or businesses where goods are sold. When I look at the current situation in retail, I think that the current opening hours offer the necessary opportunities to trade. Most cases currently also have a closing day. The rush stays out, it is run shopping rather than fun shopping. That is why I believe that traders can trade perfectly within the current framework of the 2006 Act on Opening Hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u47	It is a pity that the rush remains out, especially for trade. The problem that traders will necessarily want to remain open 7 days to 7 will probably not arise. The fact that there are more and more cities becoming tourist centres may also indicate that there are more cities that want Sunday openings, but that is another discussion. If commercial matters violate these rules, we must be able to look at them with the necessary flexibility. After all, they have already had a very difficult time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u48	On the use of euro notes and coins, the European Regulation (EC) No press release 97/98 of 3 May 1998, which was supplemented by a Commission Recommendation of 22 March 2010. Indeed, this recommendation states that the refusal of cash payments should only be based on reasons which are consistent with the principle of good faith. In addition, it provides that the creditor may not refuse cash payments unless the parties have agreed otherwise. It seems to me that under these provisions a shopkeeper in his terms of sale, which are conditions of accession, can lay down which means of payment he accepts. The buyer must be informed of those conditions prior to the conclusion of the contract, the purchase. This can be done through a clear poster ring. In the Netherlands, the highest court has already ruled in a case on parking fees that a refusal of cash is not contrary to European rules. In Belgium, on the basis of the principle of good faith, it was already accepted that cash payments could be temporarily refused in a region where at a certain point a lot of shop robberies took place. This parallel can be extended to these corona conditions. The refusal of cash could certainly cause problems for people who do not have access to other means of payment or who are unable to use them. I trust that the traders will be reasonable enough to use commercial considerations in addition to strict legal rules. Cash can therefore be clearly refused today. However, this needs to be clearly displayed, so that the customer is aware of the fact before making his purchase. If this is done in a clear way, this can be done. In practice, many shops do so, but when there is only cash, especially in vulnerable groups, it is handled in a very responsible way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u49	In most cases, it is indeed effective. Cash wouldn't transfer the virus more than pay with a bank card. People may have been scared too much of the virus transfer via money. However, we must bear in mind that older people or vulnerable groups can go anywhere with their money and cannot be excluded in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u50	Mr President, Mrs Houtmeyers, you have already asked me a question in plenary on this subject. At the brainstorming sessions on how our country will implement the regulation, the cabinet of the regional prime ministers and the ministers of economics were invited, together with the regional investment agencies and the economic administrations. The resulting draft law and cooperation agreement was recently formally discussed at federal level in a working group and will be presented to the working group for a first time at inter-federal level next week. Our country did not submit a report to the Commission on 31 March with aggregated information on foreign direct investment. Article 5 of the Regulation provides that this must be done by 31 March of each year at the latest. However, as the Regulation will only enter into force on 11 October 2020, a report should only be submitted by 31 March 2021 at the latest. Indeed, it states that the decision to set up a screening mechanism and to implement the Regulation remains the exclusive responsibility of the Member State concerned. Since the proposal for a legislative text was drawn up with a large group of specialists and services involved and is now being submitted to the inter-federal political decision-making process, I believe that I fully respect the principle of national flexibility. However, the decision-making process in our country is still far from complete, so I could not give the European Commission any further information. The intention is to conclude the discussions with the Regions by the end of July, after which the draft will be submitted to Parliament. Next week, a further step will be taken at the inter-federal level, with the discussion of the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u51	Madam Secretary, I look forward to that next step.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u52	So this subject is coming back.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u53	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis of coronavirus has revealed that Belgium has a dependence which it is not aware of on several other countries, notably China, for a whole series of productions. We have seen this in terms of masks and the production of active ingredients for antibiotics. I read that Belgium was preparing a joint document, co-written by the Federal Government and the Regions, in order to defend a Belgian vision for the European Union's industrial strategy. It develops a collaborative approach that builds on regional ecosystems bringing together research centres, SMEs and large companies. This text, published in L'Echo, called for the modernisation of state aid in order to further stimulate innovation, for a reform of budgetary rules which would free up public investment and for greater involvement of the regions in industrial governance. It was also indicated that Belgium would establish itself as a flag holder of the Vanguard Initiative. This European network of thirty industrial regions aims to stimulate interregional cooperation and to support clusters and regional ecosystems. Minister, may I ask you for more details on this text in preparation? What strategy do you intend to have Belgium defend? What are the different elements that would make it possible to restore hope to our companies in this post-crisis period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u54	Mr Friart, the new European Commission has launched an ambitious package of proposals aimed at making the economy more sustainable (the Green Deal) and strengthening the Union in the field of digitisation. To anticipate this, regular consultations have taken place since the beginning of 2019 between my administration, the FPS Foreign Affairs and the regional administrations of the Economy. This was the basis of a Belgian position. This text is entitled Towards an ambitious industrial strategy for Europe. I list the main points: a holistic approach at several policy levels; European SMEs must occupy a privileged place there; innovative industrial ecosystems; a stronger European position in strategic value chains; the IACEI model must remain an important source of inspiration for the development of initiatives; investments in sustainability using new combinations of project financing; interregional innovation networks and a strong European cluster policy; a new deepening of the internal market; a modern state aid policy so that our companies are competitive against non-European competitors while maintaining competition within the Union; an ambitious and assertive trade programme; an energy policy geared towards innovation and the circular economy; and education and training adapted to the needs of the future labour market. The text was mentioned in the Belgian interventions during the conference on 15 May 2020 of the ministers responsible for the internal market and industrial policy, as well as sent to the various Member States and to the Commission. This initiative is part of a broader reflection which is under way in Belgium and which covers several very important areas, including, inter alia, the recovery plan after the VOCID crisis, the strengthening of the internal market and of certain European value chains, the debate on strategic autonomy and the pursuit of an ambitious trade agenda for the Union. It is clear that Belgium will focus on the central role of SMEs in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u55	Mr. President, Minister, I note this important cooperation between several federal governments and the Regions. A whole complementarities must be emphasized. Bringing together these research centres, these SMEs, these large companies can lead to many favourable collusions. It's essential. I note the important criteria for innovation, sustainability, the deepening of the internal market and also an ambitious trade agenda. We have all the ingredients for this program to succeed. I also note that Belgium is extremely proactive on this initiative. This is a good way to stand out and it will be positive for the recovery if Belgium can embark, in a very proactive way, on this initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u56	Mr Friart, it may be interesting to add that at European level it is Mr Borsus and I who are following the matter in the Competitiveness Council. In two Council discussions, we were together to discuss and defend the Belgian position.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u57	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u58	Mr President, Madam Minister, with the current health crisis, many consumers have turned to e-commerce sites. In fact, some channels have recorded increases in demand of more than 100 per cent and sometimes even of 200 per cent at the height of the crisis. Consumers have, in fact, become accustomed to buying many products via e-commerce, even ordering heavy and bulky items, which has an impact on delivery costs. Larger, more bulky and more bulky parcels therefore had an impact on the work of the delivery companies, which, before the crisis, processed 80 to 100 parcels per day on average, with a commission of 1.5 to 2 euros, whereas now the growth of large parcels does not allow them to secure as many deliveries as possible. On the other hand, it should be stressed that their costs – fuel, vehicle, taxes – remain unchanged. Clearly, if the situation continues, some drivers may be called upon to stop an activity that is no longer profitable. If this is not the case, the price of deliveries will inevitably increase. In the end, the consumer will have to go to the cash register. Minister, what is your opinion on this issue? Do you intend to take steps to help the home delivery sector? If so, can you give us any information about this? How do you intend to avoid additional costs to consumers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u59	Mr President, Mr Prévot, it is clear to me that the remuneration of an economic actor must be proportional to the costs involved. It therefore seems to me logical that a carrier should be better paid for the transport of larger or heavier packages. No company can continue to exist if its costs are not covered and if it cannot generate a reasonable margin. I am not planning a measure for companies responsible for delivering goods ordered online. It is up to them to raise the issue with their sponsors. Next month, a series of provisions of the Act of 4 April 2019 amending the Code of Economic Law with regard to the abuse of economic dependencies, unfair terms and unfair market practices between companies will come into force. These provisions may offer an effective instrument if it is found that major sponsors abuse their position vis-à-vis their small carriers. When a company sees its costs increase, it normally ensures that its revenues increase as well. It is a principle of functioning of the normal market. This is also the case for e-commerce companies. This may result in an increase in the price of goods, the introduction of delivery costs and/or removal costs, or an increase in such costs. Finally, it is the functioning of the market that will determine whether and to what extent any additional charges for delivery will be charged to the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u60	Madam Minister, I thank you for your answer, even though I confess that the sound was very bad and that I had difficulty capturing all the quintessence of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u61	I can send you the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u62	It would be very nice of you to send it to me because the sound was very bad. However, I understand that there are no government measures on the table at this time. I can only ask you, once again, to remain very attentive both to the situation of carriers and to the effects that this could have on consumers. Of course, it should not be the consumers who have to pay this kind of fee again. I think e-commerce has worked very well in recent weeks, and especially during this crisis. We need to ensure that everyone can be paid properly throughout the chain and that costs are not carried over to consumers. I therefore invite you to pay close attention to this aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u63	Mr Prévot, the answer will be sent to you this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u64	Madam Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u65	Minister, several municipalities have seen their orders for masks blocked by the federal government. This blockage, it seems, simply came from a labelling problem because of a new law passed on 26 April and came into force on 12 May concerning precise labelling on cartons and packages of so-called Community masks. No adjustment time was allowed, so the goods in transit were blocked at customs by the Federal Public Service. Minister, how is this possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u66	Dear colleague, for about two months, my services have been carrying out intensive checks on masks imported into Belgium in cooperation with the customs authorities. These are personal protective masks FFP2, KN95 and comfort masks. In recent weeks, many comfort masks have also been imported, including reusable fabric masks, which many call Community masks. Unfortunately, my services have found that many of them are presented with fraudulent inscriptions and documents, misleading messages that do not contain any information. Another problem is that some comfort masks look like surgical masks, but do not offer the same protection. It is therefore important that consumers who do not see the difference in protection be informed by a clear warning that these masks are not suitable for medical use. User information, warnings, product references and manufacturer data are mandatory under Book IX of the Code of Economic Law. These elements ensure that the products can be used safely and that the consumer has a point of contact in case of problems with the masks. This obligation is not new, but has been in place for decades. Given the lack of awareness of these rules by importers manufacturers, the SPF Economy added a specific information page and a Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) about comfort masks on its website. It is clear from the above that many importers do not take the product safety rules seriously or are not familiar with them. Controls are therefore necessary before products are placed on the market. I am aware that these controls lead to delays, but they are inevitable. The alternative is to allow dangerous products to be placed on the market, but I hope you agree with me: that cannot be the goal. I would like to draw the attention of importers to the fact that, in case of doubt as to the conformity of their masks, they must read the regulations very carefully. If a delivery is not in order, they can declare it to customs under a customs destination that allows the packaging to be modified, and only then declare the goods for release for free circulation. In your question, you also refer to the new regulation of 26 April or 12 May, but no new regulation has been introduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u67	Madam Minister, thank you. I obviously agree with the precautionary principle, but at the same time, I will tell you that if the federal government had provided the promised masks, the municipalities should not each have found solutions to help their citizens. I would add that the communes would like to be backed up rather than country: the federal masks do not arrive, the filters arrive at the dropper. I will take the example of my municipality. In Tournai, our staff had to travel four times to Mons to remove filters, and it's not over. Can you imagine the cost of these unnecessary trips, in time, in terms of environmental and financial impact? Filters that we don't know what to do because they don't fit in those masks. If we weren't in times of crisis, we could laugh at a Belgian joke, but all this is real, and it's about our health. In any case, I would like to thank the municipalities that have been able to fill these gaps and that have been able to provide masks to their people when they launched public procurement well after the federal government. I would like the government to remember that at a time when it will also be necessary to help the communes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u68	Madam Minister, before the introduction I would like to refer to my question. I'll come straight to my questions. In your answer to my previous question, you said that the delay in payment by Playright is partly due to the lack of appropriate documents to calculate the payout. Could a solution be for producers and transmitters to forward the lists to Playright in good time and be obliged to do so, so that the payment could be made more quickly? It is a purely administrative adjustment, but for many artists it would guarantee their income. Online commercials respect the rights of the artists, but for one-line broadcasts via Netflix, VTM GO or VRT NOW they are not. So the artists aren't paid either. Given the evolution in which consumers are viewing more and more online programmes, this is very detrimental to actors. Will you do anything to amend the legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u69	As you indicate, relevant, correct information is needed for a distribution by management companies. There are several ways to obtain that information. It can be purchased on the market, collected from own resources or requested from parties that have it. The collection of the information will always involve costs or demands from one party or another. It is precisely for this reason that this aspect is also discussed in the audiovisual consultation committee. Indeed, in the context of transparency mechanisms in the audiovisual sector, it is now being examined with the various parties what information can be provided by which party to which other party, according to which modalities, for example, whether or not confidential, and within what timing can be provided. This is also in line with Article XI.261 of the Economic Law Code, which provides that management companies and users of works and services must negotiate in good faith the licensing and the provision of all necessary information on the respective services of management companies and users. The aim of this exercise is indeed the optimisation and efficiency gains of the various processes, but several aspects need to be taken into account, in particular cost, administrative burden, confidential data and accessibility. At present, the law provides that performers have an exclusive right to communicate their performance to the public. Performers can transfer their rights, for example to producers. As in the legislation of most EU countries, there is also a presumption of transfer to the producer of the exclusive right to audiovisual exploitation of his performance. In that case, however, compensation should also be provided for the performer. The law provides that, with the exception of audiovisual works belonging to the non-cultural or advertising sector, performers are entitled to a separate remuneration for each mode of exploitation. As far as legislation is concerned, it seems to me that there are rights for performers in the online environment as well. If problems were to arise in practice, it would be necessary to consider the best ways of resolving them, through mediation, the court, the supervisory authority, management companies or the audiovisual consultation committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u70	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for clarifying that there are indeed rights to broadcast online. I note that there is consultation going on and hopefully it can be done faster in the future via Playright.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u71	Thank you, Mrs Depraetere. A further interplay had been tabled for which we had to wait for the Conference of Presidents to give the green light. That's what's come. According to the order of submission of questions and interplays, this interplay is now being discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u72	Mr President, Minister, at the moment many sectors are raising the alarm. Every day a sector appears in the news indicating that there are difficulties. One sector will recover faster after the corona crisis than the other. One of these sectors is the travel sector, which needs a certain perspective, because that is currently very unclear. Of course, this sector depends on many factors that will be decided in the coming days and weeks. On the one hand, there is the whole issue of supply. How will the pandemic evolve internationally? What will the National Security Council decide? On the other hand, there is the question. Consumer confidence will have to be restored in order to start travelling again soon. Who can blame the consumer if he still has doubts as to whether it is safe to travel abroad? The whole question of supply and demand is likely to remain disturbed for some time to come. Meanwhile, the travel organizations are moaning and it looks like it will be very difficult to keep their heads above water. After all, the travel sector is good for many jobs in this country and these jobs seem to be threatened at the moment. The analysis of the Association of Flemish Travel Agencies shows that the situation would have been normalized for them at the earliest by the end of 2023. A worst case scenario even speaks of 2027. The travel sector is a specific sector that was not easy for the corona crisis either. Thomas Cook's bankruptcy is still fresh in our minds, as is the many debates we have had in this committee. It is also very clear that there will be a fault line in the travel sector before and after corona. Nothing will be the same in the future. We must avoid a domino effect of bankruptcies in the travel sector. If the travel organisation landscape were further thinned, a different market situation would arise and we would find ourselves in a sort of oligopoly, which would not be a good thing for the consumer. Madam Minister, I have a number of fundamental questions about this. What measures have you taken so far to give oxygen to the travel sector? We have just had a debate on the ministerial decision of March which regulates everything about travel vouchers, but we must also dare to look further at the uncertainty that currently exists in the sector. What initiatives will you or the government take to restore that travel sector to its original level as quickly as possible? Has there been any consultation between the government and the sector? Regardless of the sector and the possible measures, I think it is essential to always consult with the sector first on targeted measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u73	Mr Van Lommel, we have just had part of the debate. Travel companies can also rely on various federal and regional measures. In my domain, they can benefit from the temporary unemployment measure. According to the information provided to me on Monday, this measure represents EUR 75 million for the travel sector for the period April-June. In addition, I have provided for a voucher system with the Ministerial Decision of 19 March 2020, amended on 3 April, which we have already discussed extensively. This responds to the major cash flow problems faced by tour operators as a result of the corona crisis. According to information provided to me by the professional organisations, EUR 174.5 million of vouchers have been issued. The temporary unemployment scheme only runs until 30 June and certain sectors will remain very heavily impacted, of which the travel sector is a very important one. It is proposed that the flexible arrangements for temporary unemployment due to corona for the travel sector should be extended until 31 December in accordance with the current arrangements. The government will have to decide this or next week. I can now comment on specific measures for 2021. The sector is a requesting party to continue to benefit from the system of temporary unemployment after that date. My cabinet and I have regular discussions with all professional federations in the travel sector, initially on the voucher scheme, but also, more broadly, on the financial situation of the travel sector. Last Monday, they gave me an explanation of the impact analysis they made. The study shows the enormous impact that the corona crisis has had and will still have in the post-corona era. Both private travel and business travel are seriously affected by the corona crisis. I'll give you some figures to illustrate. They're hitting the impact for the full year 2020. In order to compare, I would say that package travel for individuals in 2019 accounted for EUR 2.5 billion and business travel for EUR 2.9 billion, i.e. EUR 5.4 billion. The overall impact on sales for this year is expected to reach around €4 billion, including €848 million due to cancellations and €3.2 billion due to missed sales. The impact on the results is EUR 747 million, of which the current measure of temporary unemployment already compensates for EUR 75 million until the end of June 2020. The total amount of vouchers to be issued is estimated at EUR 287 million. A substantial impact on the sector is expected for 2021. Volume reductions of 20 to 40 % are still expected. These data show that the measures I have taken are necessary and that the extension of temporary unemployment is important. There will also be a lot of concrete questions about the rights and obligations of travellers and tour operators after the restart. I want to assist them through the task force, the FPS Economy and all professional organisations. Aid to enterprises is primarily a matter for the regional authorities. Where I can, I will continue to support the sector by mobilising financial resources from the European Fund for Self-employed and SMEs, amounting to EUR 540 billion. Mr Van Lommel, we have also taken many additional measures, such as tax measures under the bridge law. The government is also examining what new general and sectoral measures it can add to the package in order to support the heavily affected sectors, to which the travel sector clearly belongs, with a view to relance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u74	The loss due to missed revenue and cancellations is indeed huge. Travel behaviour will also remain severely disturbed in the coming years. It is quite essential to develop a number of specific measures for this sector as well. You refer to the temporary measures. They are necessary and we have always supported them, for the sake of clarity. With the extension of the temporary unemployment scheme, you will indeed be able to respond to this particular sector. Even though I am concerned, above all, that employment is guaranteed, the travel market must not be disturbed too much. Measures can be taken, but it will never be enough. This applies to any sector. The chances of bankruptcy in the future are certainly not nonexistent. That is why the Flemish Interest Group continues to advocate staying on speaking terms with vulnerable sectors, such as the travel sector, to hear what lives there and what needs to be done. In addition, the Flemish Interest Group advocates specific measures from the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u75	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the reply of the Minister for Employment, Economy and Consumers in charge of Combating Poverty, Equal Opportunities and Persons with Disabilities, - having regard to the turnover loss of more than EUR 2 billion achieved in the sector since the outbreak of the corona virus, - having regard to the Minister's earlier action concerning the protection of the travel sector in the context of cancelled journeys under COOVID-19, - having regard to the employment provided in the sector and threatened, - whereas the market must be protected from the evolution of a competitive and more oligopolistic market situation; - whereas the affordability of travel for consumers is compromised by further thinning of the travel sector landscape; - whereas it will take some time before the market recovers: according to the Federation at the end of 2023 in the best case or in 2027 when the situation does not quickly normalise; - considering the need to protect companies and their jobs; asks the government: - to continue discussions with the sector and to develop a coordinated package of measures to enable the sector to overcome the crisis resulting from the outbreak of COVID-19." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the response of the Minister for Employment, the Economy and Consumers, responsible for the fight against poverty, equality of opportunity and people with disabilities, - in view of the loss of turnover of more than EUR 2 billion in the sector since the emergence of the coronavirus crisis; - having regard to the measure previously taken by the Minister concerning the protection of the travel sector in connection with the cancellation of travel following the VOCID-19; - in view of the employment generated by and threats to the sector; - Whereas the market must be protected against the shift from a competitive market to a more oligopolistic market; - Whereas a subsequent reduction in the number of players in the sector threatens to make travel less affordable for consumers; - Whereas the restoration of the market will take some time: according to the federation, at the end of 2023 in the best cases or 2027 if the situation does not quickly normalize; Whereas the undertakings and the jobs they generate must be protected; asks the government - to continue discussions with the sector and to develop a set of appropriate measures to enable the sector to overcome the crisis resulting from the emergence of VOCID-19." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Leen Dierick. A simple motion was tabled by Ms.Leen Dierick. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u76	Mr President, I will quickly deliver some elements. The most important will be the minister's interesting answer, as often. As you know, yesterday morning, the whole horeca sector was heard in the Economic Committee. During these hearings, we heard Horeca Vlaanderen, Brussels and Wallonia, the whole country and the actors. Beyond the socio-economic measures needed to support the sector, enormous questions and uncertainties remain around its gradual reopening. We're talking about the third phase of the decoupling that should start. I use the conditional every time because nothing has yet been confirmed. As of June 8, things may change. Until then, several points will be considered by the government and by you, including the modalities for reopening, whether it be restaurants, cafes, bars, terraces and other special situations. What has blurred the tracks a little bit is the statements of your colleague, Minister De Crem, last Sunday on the RTL plateau. He explained that it would eventually be "perhaps before 8 June". He mentioned June 2 and 3 "maybe for the terraces", "and maybe not". It creates blur and blur, in this type of situation, you will agree with me, minister, it is not at all ideal, and it is even contraindicated. Could you please explain all the thoughts that have been made to date? What is planned for June 8, date mentioned several times? What can you announce today in a clear and unambiguous way to the sector? As you know, you can't reopen horeca stores in a few days: making an announcement on the 3rd for an opening two or three days later is very complicated, if not impossible, not to mention suppliers and food stocks. The sector must be warned in advance. I am questioning you so that you can make clear the somewhat contradictory announcements and speeches that have been heard in recent days.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, on 13 May 2020, the National Security Council decided on the second phase of the re-launch of our common and economic activities from 18 May 2020. In the next phase, it will indeed have to be examined whether the Horeca can be restarted and under what conditions this can be done in a reasonable manner. This next phase of recovery will only be possible as soon as 8 June. In any case, the aim must be to give the sector a perspective and as many entrepreneurs as possible the opportunity to restart their business. With regard to the re-launch of activities, we will have to look at how the number of infections with COVID-19 is evolving. As a function of this, the exit strategy is prepared and adjusted. The exit strategy is prepared by the so-called GEES. On the basis of the GEES' activities and in close consultation with the regional ministers responsible for economics and the relevant sector organisations, a thought-out exit scenario will also be developed for the catering industry. This will strike a balance between the economic need to restart activities, but also the need to ensure public health. The measures for the reopening of the Horeca will consist, as has also been the case for the stores, of a number of binding obligations which will be included in a ministerial decree and in a few guidance directives which will be included in a guide for the horeca sector. This guide may be supplemented by sector-specific recommendations, as was the case for the reopening of stores. Ladies and gentlemen, we are working very hard on this and we are following the same procedure as for businesses and shops. There has also been intense consultation with the sector. The sectors themselves have produced a great many opinions. They all appear in the press, where they are sometimes presented as decided, when they are not. Those opinions were forwarded to the GEES to give an opinion on them. The GEES has called in the ERMG's help. Indeed, it is very complicated, and very diverse. I often say that the wealth of this sector also lies in its diversity. They have requested the support of ERMG, which shall draw up an opinion thereon. The GEES is in the process of delivering an opinion for the Consultative Committee, in preparation for the National Security Council. If you ask me for my advice, I have not received any signal today that the date of 8 June would be brought forward. I do not think the statements on this issue are satisfactory either. I do not know the context in which they were expressed. So much has already been said, even in the recent period, about the catering industry. I believe that there is no discussion on the date of 8 June. However, we are told that one cannot open on 8 June if one only knows on 3 or 4 June what the ministerial decision says. It is therefore important that the information on the circumstances in which one may open is clearly known in advance. We'll take that with us in the exercise. But first we must make a good decision in the next few hours or days in what way one can open up and give everyone a perspective. There must be a definitive framework for everyone, without distinction. I think that is very important. The conditions must also be known in which way this can be safe. That is what we are working on. We hope to have a decision in the next few hours or days. The Consultative Committee should then consider how this is communicated. The date of 8 June shall be the earliest and shall be retained as such.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u78	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. Many sectors have proven that they can start safely and sustainably. I absolutely believe that the catering industry will be able to do the same, although this is a very specific sector for which separate measures are needed. It is true that they need a perspective very urgently, especially when it is seen that the catering industry has already started or will be doing so very soon in neighbouring countries. I think we should come up with a concrete plan very urgently. So that's what's gonna happen next day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u79	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It's good that you clarified things. Indeed, the fact that neighbouring countries are opening up – whether it is Germany, where it is already partly done, or the Netherlands on 1 or 2 June – influences our thinking, and that is normal. So you confirm that there will be no announcement until June 8. This is important to keep track of the pandemic and for the sector to be able to prepare. They had to close in two days, which is normal because we had to make urgent decisions. Now let's give them time, if possible. Thank you for your clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u80	Madam Secretary, my question is about Unisono. Many restaurants pay annual subscription fees to this platform. Through a collaboration with the Catering Federations, Unisono has already made a one-month refund due to the corona crisis. That is, of course, a good initiative. But when we consider that all the catering shops have been closed since 14 March 2020 and will remain closed until at least 8 June, for some even later, we speak of a period of at least 3 months. During that period they could not play music, while they paid the rights. That is why I wonder whether there is any possibility of a measure to compensate for the remaining two or more months in order to support the catering industry. Has this been discussed yet? I asked the same question yesterday during the hearing on the catering business, but it was not so clear. Can the government take an initiative on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u81	Mr President, Mrs Depraetere, as you point out, Sabam has granted a month's exemption from copyright in consultation with the Catering Federations. Sabam also agreed the same exemption for commercial matters, even after consultation with the sectoral federations. Sabam has therefore shown a degree of solidarity with the affected operators of hospitality or commercial matters, as you point out. It follows from the application of Sabam's annual agreements and the agreements of the Fair Compensation that repayment is only possible if the cases are concluded definitively and irrevocably, which is not the case in the present case because it is a temporary closure. The solidarity contribution agreed by Sabam therefore differed from the application and implementation of the annual agreements. Sabam and the Fair Refund have the possibility of having further discussions with the sector on an extension of the exemption. In my capacity as Minister, I cannot oblige them to do so and simply motivate them to do so. Mrs Depraetere, I can also tell you that at the moment we have asked you what the public authorities can do to provide this support and, apart from the dossier in question, are fully considering how we can support the catering industry and provide additional support. That has to go with the reopening for me. Support measures must also be provided for this purpose. Secondly, there is always a double side to artists and catering. The compensation to Sabam also always includes income for artists who partially disappear. We are working on initiatives in this area in Parliament, but also within the government. Perhaps there will also be additional initiatives for the artists in the coming period, which I would like to look at together with Parliament. You have probably read that we have received artists and the cultural sector together with the Prime Minister this week. We are still looking to provide additional support. In the area of catering and artists we will provide additional support, perhaps not through Sabam. However, there will be sufficient compensation in other ways.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u82	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. The catering sector, like the cultural sector, remains awaiting prospects. The waiting period is long if the date of 8 June is only announced as a possible opening date. In many cases, for example the larger catering shops, cafes and dancings, an opening may be more difficult and will therefore fall later than 8 June, although I hope it will be possible. It will not be obvious for everyone to work at the same level as for the corona outbreak, because there will be a lot of measures. Given the long waiting period and the need for support, it is understandable that questions should be raised. It is certainly important that a broad and general plan is brought out, not just a few loose measures. I think that everyone involved is in a very happy position to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic188x.u83	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for the smooth running of this committee meeting.
