ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u1	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is characteristic of a non-profit-making association that it unites a number of people with a common aim. Examples include schools, youth associations, sports associations and cultural associations. Those associations may make a profit with the organisation of an event, but that profit must be returned to the association concerned and to the goal to be achieved by the association. The law on private security allows associations to organise surveillance during an event or an occasional dance venue organised by them without the involvement of a professional monitoring company. However, the law imposes strict conditions, which I would like to underline. The conditions require that exception regime to be reserved for the specific target group outlined. Purely commercial enterprises whose reasons of existence ultimately consist mainly of pursuing economic profitability and profit by organizing events or festivals, among others, are excluded. The use of surveillance agents is not an obligation and certainly not an obligation for small-scale events. However, if it is considered that there is a safety risk which might require surveillance, the choice between professional and non-professional surveillance may be made under the conditions laid down in Article 24 of the Private Safety Act. This choice must be made wisely and wisely and not merely from a cost-effective perspective. The decision whether an association uses or may use the exception regime lies with the mayor. Together with his chief of police, he assesses whether safety can be adequately ensured by the use of his own non-professional members of the organizing association. However, the mayor may not grant his consent until it has been verified that the association and its designated members comply sufficiently with all the provisions and conditions laid down by law. The local authorities are free to obtain additional information from external bodies if deemed necessary or useful. Daily figures, to which you refer in your question, I cannot give you. However, I can inform you that 564 application forms were received in 2019. A total of 4,011 persons were reported. For 2020, the numerator currently stands at 223 applications received, representing 1,292 persons. On the one hand, the receipt of the application forms pro-actively carries out a check and, on the other hand, checks are carried out on a regular basis at events and occasional dance venues, both by the inspectors and by the police themselves. In accordance with Article 237 of the Private Security Act, any natural or legal person who fails to comply with the provisions of the law or its implementing acts may be subject to the following sanctions by the criminal officer in ascending order: a warning, an amicable settlement or an administrative fine of up to EUR 25,000.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u2	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u3	Debates of the European Parliament 55006626C Mr Colebunders has been converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 55006789C by Mr Bihet and 55007082C by Mrs Chanson will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u4	Minister, recent developments have highlighted the fact that the use of handcuffs appears to be carried out in a usual or automatic manner by the police, particularly against minors. The delegate for the rights of the child has repeatedly expressed concern about this practice. This was followed in 2016 by a report by Committee P, which points out in particular that the legislation clearly identifies the use of handcuffs as a form of constraint strongly framed. He considers that the daily practice, particularly with regard to minors, is not carried out with strict respect for the legal framework, and goes further by recalling that the use of handcuffs must be assessed in the light of the circumstances and that, in this context, the police officer who resorts to this practice must be able to justify it, which does not appear to be the case in a large number of cases. Minister, are you aware of the concerns of the Child Rights Officer? Have you read the report of Committee P? What follow-up do you intend to give them to stop the abuse of handcuffing, especially against minors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on Monday 1 June, following a special call from 6:12 p.m., the police services of the Midi zone had to intervene for a crime of stealing a scooter by a group of five very young suspects at the entrance of Pierre Paulus Park, rue de Parme in Saint-Gilles. The police team filmed only the final part of their intervention went to one of the entrances to the park on the street side of the Hôtel des Monnaies. This team saw a young man, the 13-year-old – who was running out of the park and who – in sight of the police, ran up the street. The police chased him on foot. In order to escape the police, the young man was about to cross the street at the risk of being hit by cars in circulation. He was intercepted before he could get into the street. This young man was handcuffed. As for the second 11-year-old, he stopped in front of the police. No measures of constraint were necessary against him. He was accompanied to the police vehicle. The young people have been subjected to administrative arrest on the basis of Article 34, § 1, – checking the identity of a person who attempted to commit an offence. The investigation was able to determine that there were no casualties on site, which the young people had tried to break with a screwdriver the lock with which the abandoned scooter was chained. The young people were immediately released and returned to their parents, to whom explanations of the circumstances and the reasons for the arrest were provided. The use of handcuffs as a means of coercion is governed by article 37bis of the Police Function Act. The law does not set an age limit but lists the conditions that police services are required to take into account. Thus, the law allows the use of handcuffs in the supervision of a person on the occasion of a deprivation of judicial or administrative liberty, if this is made necessary by the circumstances listed in the article concerned. According to the first elements of the internal investigation in the Midi police zone, it appears that in view of the intentions of the thirteen-year-old to escape at all costs by taking considerable risks – crossing a street in full circulation to avoid an arrest – the police officers considered it necessary to use handcuffs on his person in order to achieve the objective of avoiding any other risk of escape as well as any danger that a leak might pose to the young person himself. Other means of restraint, such as the control technique – for example, the arm wrench or another more supported grip – have been considered inappropriate in view of the young age and corpulence of the person concerned, given the risk of injury they might have caused. The mandatory measures available to the police are listed in articles 34 to 37bis of the Law on the Police Function (LFP), which forms part of the basic training and continuing training of police officers. The principles are recalled during briefings before the order services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u6	As Mrs Rohonyi was absent, Mr Thiébaut had the floor for her reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u7	I thank the minister for this clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u8	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, thank you for giving us a second question session. The Integrated Police Act was largely based on communal law and the CPAS – a text that has now been partially codified in the Code of Local Democracy and Decentralization. The law of 31 May 2017 amending the law of 7 December 1998 organising an integrated police service, structured on two levels, with regard to the police council, partially emancipated the integrated police of communal law, in accordance with the wishes of the Council of State. However, there are still some confusions, in particular as regards the competence of the police to appear in court, which is provided for in Article 270 of the new communal law. Can the minister tell me the legal basis on which a police zone can be based in order to be brought to justice? Are police zones still allowed to refer to communal law, as the doctrine suggests when texts are silent or incomplete?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u9	Dear colleague, you are asking me on what legal basis a police zone can be brought to justice. Local police area management bodies refer to article 270 of the new communal law. In the case of multi-municipal areas, this article specifies that "in the multi-municipal areas, the police college shall exercise for the police zone the powers conferred by paragraph 1 on the college of mayors and aldermen. The authorization provided for in paragraph 2 shall be given by the police council." There is no ambiguity in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u10	Minister, thank you for that clarification. That question came from police areas. Would it be possible to send them information, particularly at the multi-municipal level, so that they are comfortable with the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u11	Mrs Soors, I understand from the services of the Chamber of Representatives that the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Police Services falls within the competence of the Chamber of Deputies that the matter was discussed the day before yesterday, on 29 June, at the meeting of the Special Committee responsible for the parliamentary supervision of the Standing Committee on Police and the Standing Committee on the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services. Your group is represented in this by both Mr Van Hecke and Mr Thibaut. The 2019 Activity Report of the P Committee, which was discussed there, is now online and can be publicly consulted. Your question rightly raises some concerns. I will briefly give you some facts that were given to me by the P Committee. Only three of the complaints received have not been filed directly by a citizen. Myria, the Embassy of the United Arab Emirates and an organization called la Fédération congolaise de Liège, were the initiators of these complaints. Thirteen complaints were sent to the judicial authorities on the basis of the information available in the complaint by the Standing Committee P. For the time being, no statements have been recorded in the database of the Standing Committee P. In two thirds of the complaints, the Standing Committee P decided to send the complaint for further investigation to the department of internal supervision of the police area concerned. Eight complaints have been entrusted to the P Committee's department for further investigation, and six of these complaints have not been able to demonstrate that the facts cited have taken place on a background of the protected criterion "Race, Color, Nationality, Origin..." One complaint concluded that the P Committee was not competent and another complaint found that a judicial investigation was ongoing. For the rest of the complaints, the P Committee found that it was not competent for another department to deal with the file and that the complainant did not wish to cooperate so that there were insufficient elements to identify the suspect. In 2017-2018, the P Committee's Polls Service conducted eleven criminal investigations which recorded racism and/or xenophobia. In these criminal investigations, the judicial authorities have not yet delivered a judgment, but the disciplinary authorities have already blamed the police officers concerned. In two criminal investigations, insufficient evidence was found and a file was filed without a result. The other criminal investigations are still ongoing. Your final question concerns the law on the disciplinary status of police officers. Can you ask me this question in writing, given its quantitative nature? I'll get an answer as soon as I can.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u12	I do indeed follow in second line the work of Mr Van Hecke and Mrs Thibaut in their representation in the monitoring committee on the P Committee. As you know, this is a closed committee. It is important that the wider debate can certainly be held in Parliament. The broader debate is what I miss in your answers. I asked a question about the following. Some researchers argue that the threshold for lodging a complaint is too high for the P Committee. I am sorry that you have not responded to this, because I am convinced that this is a debate that we must carry out on the ground. I must not convince you, Minister, of that. The credibility and authority of the police are crucial. It is only if citizens can have confidence in their credibility and authority that the police themselves can carry out their tasks in the streets in a safe and respected manner. We need to be able to talk more about the dynamics than about the figures, for example when it comes to the threshold that would be too high to file complaints. We need to debate what is behind these figures, namely many complaints but few complaints that are declared admissible. Does this mean the police are being accused too quickly? I would like to have that debate on the ground in Parliament, together with you, Minister. So I look forward to your answer, including the questions relating to figures. I hope that we will be able to follow up on this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u13	When I was a Member of Parliament, I was always a member of the then successor committee Committee I and Committee P. I will certainly take your comments and suggestions with me for a further discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u14	Debates of the European Parliament 55006987C by Mr Donné was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u15	Mrs Soors, I am indeed aware of the opinion of the Supervisory Body on the police information on its findings in the context of the investigation into the use of bodycams. This advice has received my full attention. It recommends, inter alia, that the concept of "intervention" be clarified, that maximum uniformity be obtained or that a controller be designated. I have appointed a working group, including representatives of the integrated police and my administration, to give me guidelines for a possible change in legislation and in ministerial redirections. The composition of this working group is in full swing. The same working group will also examine the specific provisions, recommendations and findings on the substance. In fact, the use of bodycams is still in a test phase with the federal police. It is therefore too early to report concrete results on this. Moreover, I have mandated my administration to facilitate a scientific investigation on the use of the so-called cameras in the context of the police missions that could be both administrative and judicial in nature. This research will be led by a university consortium formed by the universities of Leuven and of Liège. This study will begin in October of this year. It will be the subject of an in-depth investigation that will be directed from several angles, both in terms of police and civil aspects. It's about using the cameras. This should lead to recommendations for a clearer and more useful use of this item of use. I like the use of this camera application. I would soon like to give clear and valid guidelines for the whole of the national territory, based on a business analysis of the different circumstances in which this material is used. Moreover, I will create a framework in which both the use of this apparatus and the wishes of our police forces can be reconciled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u16	Minister, I am very pleased to hear that you are striving for clear guidelines. A working group which may result in an amended legislation and ministerial redirections is an important step there. Let me briefly give you my group's priorities. These are slightly more specific than what you give with regard to use. For us, it's about registering the use. Those bodycams may currently be used in certain circumstances, but that use is not registered. It is therefore difficult to ascertain whether the circumstances are indeed the right and legal circumstances. When it comes to what the bodycam itself records, one should know that the bodycam captures images even before it is activated. Right now, that's 30 seconds. That too has not yet been regulated by law, so that must also be addressed. The sound of the bodycam is in many cases still contrary to the Criminal Code. Then there are areas of work for access to images, storage of images and their use outside the territory in which they were made. I hear you say you're fond of using bodycams. My group is certainly open to the improvement that the bodycams on the ground could bring. The question can also be asked to what extent the bodycams can be used for the benefit of citizens. Can a citizen ask himself to use the bodycam? Does a citizen himself have access to these images in defence in a particular situation? For us, these are priorities that need to be clarified so that the use can be regulated and functional.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u17	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 55007083C) by Mrs Julie Chanson, No. 55007142C by Mrs Caroline Taquin and No 55007142C by Mrs Caroline Taquin and others: 55007538C by Mrs Julie Chanson will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u18	Minister, Circular COL13 requires the designation of reference officers in police areas, an essential feature of our fight against racism and discrimination. These officials are trained to receive testimony from victims of discrimination or hate crimes and to properly register their complaints. It must be noted, however, that not only are reference officers not designated in all police areas, but when they are, they are often insufficiently trained and do not have a precise description of their function. Minister, how many police areas now have a reference official? In the event that not all areas have a reference official, what are the reasons for preventing such designation? How many reference officials are responsible for several areas? Are lists of reference police officers updated? Are regular and continuing training provided? If not, are or will such trainings be introduced?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u19	Mr President, Mrs Rohonyi, my services do not have accurate figures on the number of persons of reference for hate crimes in local police areas. The basic regulations provide for at least one reference person for each local police area. Larger police areas have several reference persons. I have instructed my services to retain as a point of action the reliable analysis of these encrypted data. The trainings and trainings dedicated to this problem and reserved – among other things – for police officers are always provided by Unia, in collaboration with accredited police educational institutions. However, attention should also be drawn to training within local police areas, either by their own experts or by external parties. Improved knowledge on diversity in general and, more specifically, on anti-racism and discrimination legislation, is included in the 2016-2019 National Security Plan. The same applies to the implementation of circular COL 13/2013 on discrimination and hate crimes. The organization of training for reference officers has therefore been a priority for the relevant police services for several years, both at the federal and local levels. In the future, in collaboration with Unia, we will continue to work to strengthen the knowledge of these reference officials by offering mandatory training to new candidates and supporting existing reference officials through reminder days. Early this year, training was organized for new reference staff in the judicial district of Hal-Vilvorde. Training for new reference staff of the Federal Police front line of the Walloon District was also planned at the beginning of the year. However, due to the measures related to the VOCID-19 crisis, these two formations were postponed. Their organization in the autumn of this year is under consideration. In addition, digital networks of reference officials have been established to share information and exchange knowledge online. In addition, Unia supports their activities with a digital newsletter on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u20	Minister, thank you. I mean, you don't have the exact numbers of the number of reference police officers that have actually been designated. I regret this because it is a goal set by law, but also because that is what makes it possible to properly register complaints. It is essential because it is by properly registering these complaints, by giving them proper judicial follow-up that victims of discrimination will be able to assert their rights and that the perpetrators will be able to be properly punished. This is really a crucial point in our fight against racism. I hear, and thank you, that things have been done, that work is being done together with Unia on information, that digital networks have been set up. All of this is very positive, but it does not allow us to solve some of the problems that come to me from the ground. Designated reference staff are often very willing but are faced with heads of corps who are not aware of discrimination, hence the need to include discrimination in national and zonal security plans. I also remember that the list of reference police officers is still not updated. That's probably why you don't have the numbers, as you explained. This is problematic because it prevents victims of discrimination and hate crimes from addressing the appropriate person when they make the sometimes very difficult approach to complaining to a police station. So there's still a lot of work to do. You can count on Parliament's support for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u21	Minister, the subject and its problem are in some way the same as those I have just addressed. Indeed, following the global wave of the popular Black Lives Matter movement, seven organizations, including Amnesty International and the Human Rights League, launched a campaign entitled "Not Normal - Stop Ethnic Profiling". They deplore what they have actually denounced for several years, namely the lack of attention given to the phenomenon of ethnic profiling. Recent events show how necessary and crucial it is to combat police violence and structural racism in our society. Ethnic profiling, however, consists of violence based on structural racism in our society. The two-year Amnesty International survey shows that half of the police officers interviewed recognized a persistent problem of ethnic profiling. The same proportion reported questionable practices during certain police checks. The fight against ethnic profiling is therefore essential, not only because of its discriminatory dimension, but also because trust between citizens and police services determines the quality of interventions and the safety of police officers in the course of their missions. As part of their campaign, the seven organizations made recommendations to put an end to this practice, including the widespread registration of identity checks or the strengthening of the protection of the right of citizens to film the actions of the police. For its part, in its latest activity report, Unia notes a low propensity to report ethnic profiling, stating that part of these cases is linked to the fight against terrorism, so that people of Muslim faith are more often considered a threat. As a result, Minister, can you let us know if any measures have been put in place to effectively combat ethnic profiling? Is there any consultation with your Justice counterpart regarding the facilitation of evidence of motive related to contempt or hostility due to a characteristic of the controlled person? What about the extension of the Behaviour Detection Officer training to all police services? Will the demands of these seven organisations and the findings of Unia be heard and considered to inspire possible reforms to combat ethnic profiling effectively? Are investigations under way against possible suspicions of ethnic profiling in police practice? If so, what are the results of these surveys?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u22	Minister, on the issue of police ethnic profiling, I would like to say that targeted checks are part of the good and efficient police work. If you're looking for a Muslim terrorist, you won't give priority to controlling senior ladies with a rollator. Those looking for a drug dealer will not give priority to the control of young mothers with two babies in the baking bike. Of course, the vast majority of public opinion agrees with that. Nevertheless, with the regularity of the clock so-called experts and politicians from the left-wing camp dive on Mrs Rohonyi is one of those who misrepresent efficient police work as ethnic profiling. However, all crime requires a certain form of profiling. There are the profiles of the wandering daders, of the drug dealers, of the white-collar criminals and of the car con men. These profiles are often very different and although of course they are not conclusive, they help to efficiently track down criminals. According to the left-wing camp, supported by experts, a discriminatory approach focuses on people with a migration background and on neighbourhoods in which many people with a migration background live. That this would result from a kind of structural racism in the police services is, of course, total nonsense. It is true that young men with a migration background are disproportionately more involved in crimes. It is the case that nuisance and crime are more common in neighbourhoods with a high concentration of people with a migration background. The fact that the police are paying more attention to this is therefore the logic itself. Ladies and gentlemen, it is of course very easy to criticise police forces from an ivory tower, for example at university or here in Parliament, high and dry behind an office or high and dry in committee. That is why I have the following questions for you. Do you see the possibility of providing these experts and certain politicians, who blame the police for structural racism, with an internship in the police services, helping them for a week in the intervention units, in order to experience the difficulties of their work in the first place? Finally, in your capacity as Minister of the Interior, do you support the usefulness of profiling as part of good and efficient police work? Allow me to make just as clear the difference between profiling and what some Members misappointed as ethnic profiling.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u23	Mr President, I will respond immediately to the questions put by Mrs Rohonyi and Mr Van Langenhove. The training of Behaviour Detection Officer (BDO), which was developed within the federal police force, aims to provide police officers with objective criteria of control, mainly based on behaviour. The BDO training has 175 trainers and more than 1,500 police officers, both from the local and the federal police, who have been trained. I would add that the federal police also organize the CoPPRa trainings, which in practice aim to prevent radicalisation and to ensure the application of the community-oriented police function in daily contacts with the citizen. These courses were delivered to nearly 30,000 integrated police personnel. Finally, the CoPPRa programme has also been strengthened since 2015 by the "Holocaust, Police and Human Rights" (HPD) training. More than 11,000 IPF members participated in these modules. Training on polarization is also offered. I have read the recommendations of the PasNormal, D7 or 1G hashtag campaign. I am, of course, open and ready to consider any constructive proposal. Any assistance which contravenes the legal provisions and any failure to comply with professional obligations and other ethical and ideological values shall be subject to judicial or disciplinary action. Mr Van Langenhove, both local and federal police work with universities in the framework of various research projects. Sharing expertise, knowledge and good practice is a focus of a modern police organisation. I trust that any recommendations made by academics and NGOs will always receive the necessary reflection from the police. After all, the recent open letter from the Integrated Police Summit invites them to the debate. Profiling is part of good and efficient police work. However, the mere profiling of ethnicity should never be the justification for identity checks or any other form of police action. I see that you are following me well, because, as I said earlier, the fight against the hormone mafia will not be pursued in the bakery either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased that you, like me and many people in the police force, make a clear distinction between profiling, which is very necessary for efficient police work and which has always been applied everywhere by the police forces, and what our left-wing colleagues have called etnic profiling. We will not win the fight against the hormone mafia in the bakers and we will not win the fight against Muslim terrorism or drug dealing by searching in the rest homes. I am somewhat hungry about the question about the internships. You say that you assume that when university students or politicians make recommendations based on experience in the field. I do not suppose that, however, because when I read the newspapers and when I hear the statements made by certain colleagues in this committee, I can only assume that all this is not based at all on the field of work and that these people have not spoken at all with agents who go out of the job day in, day out to do good police work, sometimes at risk for their own lives. Minister, I believe that there is still a great deal of work to be done in this area, and perhaps you should take my proposal to heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u25	Minister, thank you for all the measures that have been taken. I was perfectly aware of that. I also know that Unia has concluded a protocol with the P Committee to encourage exchanges of information and cooperation. Unia also develops contacts with the internal oversight services of the major police areas in any case. All this is of course positive. The problem is that it remains difficult to have a comprehensive view of the complaints that are dealt with locally. Let me make it clear that I do not want to go into some of the caricatures that some of my colleagues may have. The police are no more subject to racism than any other sector. On the contrary, I think the police are doing more against racism than society in general. The problem is that this practice, even if it is a minority, exists and causes harm both to the community – which is systematically arrested by some police officers – and to the police officers as such who know how to properly justify and motivate their checks. Here too, it is important to be able to objectiveize a phenomenon in order to be able to respond to it in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u26	Mr. President, Minister, the federal police is responsible for recruiting and selecting integrated police. During the previous government's legislature, all HR processes were asked to be analyzed for potential outsourcing and to conduct an audit of recruitment and selection processes. The possibility of outsourcing has been analysed and is a costly solution given the organization of recruitment and in-house selection. A more important and urgent challenge was the automation of the solicitation process and the reduction of the duration of the entire process. A new selection concept was thus developed and negotiated with the trade unions on the basis of the following principles: to increase local participation in recruitment and selection; to focus on qualitative candidates by directing selection to potential; to automate and digitize processes including tests; to make the selection process more flexible by distinguishing generic and specialized profiles and organizing fast tracks (accelerated procedures for a specific region). Minister, can you give us a little more information on how police personnel will be recruited? How is the procedure going? What does the formula "1 in 1" mean? What's the timing? What is the status of this new procedure? The royal decrees on generic selection have been drafted and have they followed the administrative process? What is the situation now? What are the conditions that make it possible to organize fast tracks? How will the tests be organised? What are the advantages of such a procedure? How do you intend to automate and digitize the new process? How many police candidates were hired in 2019 and what do you think will be the figure for 2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u27	Mr President, dear colleague, the philosophy of the new concept of recruitment and selection is that a selected aspirant is, from the outset, even before its formation, linked to an entity. That's the concept of "one in one." This makes it possible to match supply and demand as best possible. The candidate for a position in the integrated police force will have to visit our Jobpol website. After the creation of his Jobpol account, the candidate has access to his/her selection procedure by choosing his/her own selection schedule and following the evolution of his/her application and results. The computerization of home tests will be highlighted by his Jobpol account. The candidate will have the opportunity to pass certain selection tests. The current personality assessment day will be replaced by a semi-structured individual interview. If the candidate meets the requirements, he or she will be invited directly to the selection board in the applicant entity. Thus, each entity will be able to select its staff discreetly and maintain contact with its recruit during training, provided that the person concerned has completed the medical check-up in advance. In parallel with the competence measures mentioned above, a moral assessment will be carried out at the applicant, who will have to satisfy them in order to qualify for a place in our training schools. As a result of government action to combat VOCID-19, we have taken initiatives that bring us closer to this selection project, for example through an online personality questionnaire or the removal of the group test. With regard to fast tracks, it is certain that this new way of working will be increasingly proposed. These measures are designed to meet a need for police areas or another specific federal entity. In this way, the psychologists of the selection department will work according to this formula, to target candidates from a given region or who wish to work there, in order to deliver a pool of candidates to be filled in the target area. The project is being implemented so that it can use the new tools in 2021. The procurement for the new selection tests has been validated by the General Inspectorate of Finance and is now awaiting the agreement of the Council of Ministers. The royal decrees relating to generic selection have been drafted and will have to receive the notice and the signature of a new full-function government. In 2019, 1,237 aspirants inspectors entered training. For the current year, the target is to recruit 1,400.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answer. Beyond the budgets which you inherited and which your predecessor had considerably reduced, we feel that there is also a problem of the attractiveness of the function and of the ease of recruitment, to which your new procedures respond. In the absence of a full-fledged government, they will obviously not be able to produce their full and complete effects. In this more rapid and optimal selection procedure, it will also be necessary to avoid neglecting several essential training courses (combating discrimination and violence). There is a subtle balance to be struck between these two essential imperatives: having a sufficient number of police units, but also ensuring that these officers are trained in phenomena that they are regularly confronted with. I note that recruitment in 2019 has increased slightly, probably thanks to the work you have done and despite the huge savings made by your predecessor. If we can reach the figure of 1,400 by 2020, we will result in a regime that will enable managers and police services to perform their missions optimally.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u29	Minister, integrity is an essential value to the police. Many laws define what is permitted and what is prohibited in the performance of the function. In particular, the existence of a code of ethics, the disciplinary law, the circular CP3 on the system of internal control in the integrated police, as well as the existence of supervisory services such as the P Committee and the General Inspectorate of the Federal Police and the Local Police (AIG). However, the IGA issued a report in March 2019 that draws attention to integrity within the integrated police force. The report refers to recent research in the Netherlands and Australia, which demonstrates the ever-increasing pressure on police officers by the criminal community, that they are not always prepared to report the corruption they are witnessing, or even fear that they will lose their function in the event of a report. Since 2016, the legal status provides that recruitment, in addition to age and nationality, is essential for irreproachable conduct and the absence of risk factors that constitute an obstacle to engagement. In order to do so, the following information is examined: the criminal record, the data of the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis (OCAM), as well as the data of the security services and the set of judicial data available to the police forces. However, such monitoring would not be sufficient. The AIG proposes to monitor the integrity of the police officer throughout the career – that is, for a period of 47 years. It points to the absence of preventive controls, apart from the specific cases of security investigations in the context of security clearances and those of the gambling commission. I recall that one of the authors of the study also spoke on last month's "Investigations" in the context of a problem of harassment within the police and reiterated this proposal. Minister, have you read this study? If so, what do you think? How can preventive controls be put in place with respect for individual rights? Does a risk analysis exist for so-called sensitive functions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u30	(...) of the General Inspectorate of the Federal Police and the Local Police (AIG). This report leads to an interesting reflection, it contains an overview of the various reasons and makes concrete proposals for screening during the career of a police officer. For my part, I largely share the conclusions of this study. The fact that a candidate displayed irreproachable behaviour at the beginning of his or her police career or at the time of selection as an administrative operational staff member does not mean that no other risk of integrity will arise during the remainder of his or her career. Such a risk analysis already exists for specific functions, such as infiltration. In addition, integrity is an integral part of the ongoing assessment of each staff member throughout his or her career. In addition, staff members performing a function which requires the holding of a life permit or a security certificate are subject to the security investigation imposed by the Act of 11 December 1998 on classification and clearances, certificates and security notices. For the remainder, all statutory staff are subject to disciplinary status. In this context, if a staff member has been convicted of having committed a serious offence, he or she may be subject to disciplinary sanctions up to his or her resignation. Finally, I think that the emphasis should be even more on (?) preventive measures integrated into a comprehensive management of the activities of the police services, which would provide a sound legal basis. At present, the statutory texts do not provide for screening or further investigation of morality in a systematic manner during the career. The federal police are currently studying the possibilities of such a permanent screening.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answer and especially for your desire for a form of integrity screening throughout the career. Again, I would like to stress that if this screening could take place throughout the career, it would not be with the aim of discrediting the members of the police, but on the contrary. If we target events and people who are involved in cases, we don't cast reproach on a police force as a whole. It is the same in a whole series of cases at the police level: if strong measures are put in place and if we can identify those who would be problematic and who should be punished, we manage not to incriminate the entire police force. It would be worse than anything to fall into amalgams, quite easy to do in these troubled times. We need to think about how to implement this screening throughout the career to respond in particular to these recommendations of the AIG.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u32	Mr President, I would like to turn two of my questions (Nos. 55007064C and 55007177C) into written questions and go directly to my question about seismic activity in Germany.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u33	- Is an increase in the reference earthquake planned?"
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u34	Mr Cogolati, first of all, I would like to mention the publication of the revision of the Royal Decree on the safety requirements of nuclear installations on 19 February 2020. With this revision, new requirements for taking account of natural phenomena have been imposed on nuclear power plants. In particular, it calls for a systematic and in-depth approach to demonstrating safety in relation to the risks associated with natural phenomena. These requirements and studies complement and systematize studies carried out as part of stress tests where earthquakes, floods and other climatic phenomena have been addressed. For seismic risk, the last probabilistic risk assessment took place during stress tests. Recently, Electrabel has updated its database by resuming the earthquakes that occurred between 2013 and 2018 in a large area around the power plants, notably covering the Eifel region. On this basis, Electrabel confirms the validity of the current probabilistic study. In accordance with the new requirements, this study will be supplemented by a deterministic study. This work is under way and, a priori, there is no increase in the expected seismic risk, but the result of this deterministic approach will have to be waited for to take the final position. More detailed questions about the level of the Peak Ground Acceleration (PGA) and the natural disasters taken into account find their answers in the stress test file, to which I would like to refer you. However, following the new requirements, this will always be complemented by a systematic review of all natural phenomena (characterization, definition, identification of the system) to deal with them if necessary. This exercise takes up more than 70 phenomena including volcanoism, with the Eifel region identified as a near but still far away source.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am pleased that the AFCN Order has been revised in line with the WENRA standards which are applicable in Western Europe and which allow for a much more pragmatic and realistic approach to risks. I believe that it will be necessary for stress tests to be reviewed in the light of these new rules to ensure that each nuclear reactor in Belgium meets the highest standards of nuclear safety, which include seismic risk. This risk is very real since seismic activity has recently been observed in Germany near the Belgian border.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u36	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Chanson's 55007212C will be converted into a written question at her request. Debates of the European Parliament 55007259C by Mr Verduyckt is also converted into a written question at his request. Finally, I would like to ask the following question: 55007271C by Mr Raskin, converted into a written question at his request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u37	Minister, I will come back later to some of the comments I have heard on my way from the station here. But first of all, on Wednesday 11 June, a Member of the European Parliament, Mrs Fofana, explained that she had been raped by police officers near the Gare du Nord. While she was filming an arrest of two young people of black colour whom she considered muscular, she herself Afro-descendant found herself dumped against the wall by four policemen. The MP is 72 years old. A complaint has been filed and justice will do its job, but allow me, Minister, to worry about the nature of this humiliating control and to question me about the relationship between Ms. Fofana's skin colour and the brutality of this arrest. Unia compiles complaints of violence or discrimination by police officers on duty. This report shows that 117 files have been identified in five years. The first three types of acts mentioned in these complaints are intimidation/harassment (79), incitement to hatred, discrimination or violence (32) and assault (31). Ethnic profiling is a reality despite the fact that it is theoretically prohibited by the code of ethics of the police services. In an Amnesty International report that resulted in parliamentary work, 24 out of 48 police officers from 9 different police areas acknowledged this reality. In addition, Mr. Minister, do you recognize the existence of the crime of forgeries in the identity checks carried out by the security forces? Do you accept that there is any specific police violence against people of colour or do you maintain that "this is a counter-strategy of criminal groups"? Do you, like your French counterpart, Mr Castaner, advocate zero tolerance towards the police officers responsible for racist acts?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u38	The general framework is as follows: on 16 June, a security patrol was set up in the northern quarter. This arrangement was made up of federal police officers under the supervision of the local police. It was oriented to the locations and locations where incidents had been reported during the previous weekend and/or identified as insecure by officials of companies or hospitals whose personnel transited through the Northern Railway Station. A team of this system carried out a check of two suspicious persons at one of these locations. During the inspection, a person who would later be identified as a European parliamentarian would have intervened in the conduct of a check. Her identity and diplomatic status were verified on the spot and she was the subject of a security search by a police officer. The intervention lasted about 20 minutes. The facts and the course of the identity check of Mrs Herzberger-Fofana were brought to the attention of the magistrate who, on this basis, requested to open a PV for contempt of her. The PV was established and communicated to the King's prosecutor. The conditions and procedures for identity checks, Mr. Moutquin, are set out in section 34 of the Police Function Act. In addition to the assumption of the person deprived of liberty and of the person wishing to enter a place of order where public order is threatened, police officers may check the identity of any person if they have reasonable grounds to believe on the basis of his or her behaviour, material indications, circumstances, time and place that he or she is being sought or attempted to commit an offence or is preparing to commit an offence, that he or she may disturb or disturb public order. In these cases, identity checks must therefore be based on a set of objective and concrete elements. All complaints are examined and dealt with both disciplinaryly and criminally by the General Inspectorate of the Federal Police and the Local Police, by the AIG or by the P Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u39	Minister, thank you for this detailed response, which only partially satisfies me. Indeed, I think that justice will do its job. I would remind you that Mrs. Fofana is 72 years old. You responded to the police's right to search. My colleague, Mrs Thibaut, asked you a question reminding you of the right to film and take pictures of an arrest. Unfortunately, I did not have an answer to my important questions. I have heard my colleagues, Mrs Matz and Mrs Rohonyi, call not to cast reproach on the police forces and I join them 100%. We have a police force of 42,000 people in Belgium. I am sure that most of these officers are doing an incredible job and, as Ms Matz said, are involved in the fight against racism. I think, however, that you, in your capacity as minister in charge of our law enforcement, deny a problem that Amnesty, according to Médecins du Monde and others, and beyond that, describes these groups as criminals, while they are engaged in a dialogue with you and are trying to improve the situation, excuse me, minister, I find it gravitating. Do you consider Amnesty to be a criminal group when it denounces such police violence? Do you denounce Médecins du Monde, who explained that one in four migrants suffered police violence, like a criminal group? Is Mrs. Fofana a criminal? I don't think so! If your role is, indeed, to protect the police and I agree with you that there is work to be done on this issue, your role is also to ensure that, in the end, the police are protected on their own and can function properly in a dialogue with the public. Unfortunately, I think the dialogue with the population is becoming more and more broken. I take back the metaphor of a ULG researcher who said that when you fly and 1% of pilots don't know how to fly, you don't take this company anymore, because you don't trust her anymore. I really encourage you, Minister, to get out of the postures and to do some substantive work on this issue, which must enliven us, all of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u40	Mr President, Minister, with this question I refer to your statements on Thursday 18 June. You then stated in plenary that complaints about racism and violence by the police are a counter-strategy which is regularly used by criminal groups. I found that, to say the least, a remarkable statement and have the following questions. First of all, what is your ruling based on? Secondly, do you have any figures to support this statement? If so, can you give these figures? Thirdly, how many complaints about violence against police would you say would be part of that counter-strategy? How is it found to be such complaints?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u41	Mr President, Mrs Soors, first of all I would like to stress that all complaints against police officers are being seriously investigated. The counter-strategy used by criminal groups in the security services and the police is a well-known phenomenon and way of working in which organised criminal organisations accuse the police or individual police officers of criminal offences, such as racism and police violence. When these cases are investigated, there is a possibility that the agent may be removed from the file or investigation, so that the investigations are much delayed. If these charges are not well founded, such investigations are delayed and criminal organisations can proceed further. The goal is also to discourage street police officers and keep them away from their field of action, something I will never accept. It is therefore difficult to provide figures for this phenomenon. Perhaps the P Committee, which is under Parliament's control, will be able to provide you with more information on this subject. As I have already pointed out, most of the P Committee's investigations into racism and discrimination are closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u42	Minister, we can agree that it has a strong undermining effect on police forces when individual criminals or organisations operate in such a way. This has both an undermining effect on the individual police officer involved in an investigation and on the work of the police. We agree that this is by no means a desired effect. At the same time, I find your answer rather thin in all honesty. After all, you have made a very bold statement there and you have not been able to clarify exactly what it was based on. It effectively referred to a phenomenon that needs to be combated, but the ruling as you did was very general and therefore had an undermining effect on complaints that are being filed. In this way, they will also be played down. I would therefore like to ask you to be very careful with that. As a minister, you have the difficult task of guiding the security services through this turbulent period, and of repeatedly binding action between citizens and security services. I am not talking about the criminal exceptions that the police are trying to undermine. Minister, you must do your job, both with regard to the security services and with regard to the citizens. It is my firmest conviction that this will not be done by generalizations or by placing in the plenary of the Chamber of Representatives statements which, according to your answer, are at odds.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u43	Mr Minister, there are signs that in Dilbeek and Overijse there are various places of nuisance from immigrant young people coming from Brussels. They come in groups of ten to twelve young people and act aggressively towards locals. It's about not letting walkers through, playing loud music, inciting discussions. Women let them know they feel unsafe in those neighborhoods. There have also been reports of destruction and the litter has also increased. It is noted that a drug dealer would pass by there as well. The Dilbeek police have already done a number of things. A number of young people have already been checked with the assistance of other police areas. A number of young people have already been arrested. The prosecutor's office is investigating three young people. Can you confirm the facts? Can these police zones handle this nuisance? It is a recurring phenomenon, almost an annual phenomenon, which attracts young people from Brussels to the Edge in large numbers during the longer leave periods. I hope that this will be mapped out and that these police areas will have the necessary resources to do so. If they don't, can the federal police provide assistance? Then I have a number of numerical questions. How many young people were identified? How many were apprehended by justice and administration? You can also answer these questions in writing. The most important question is, of course, how we will tackle these phenomena, which we must nevertheless combat, in these municipalities in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u44	Mr President, you are raising a legitimate issue. I refer you to the question put by Mrs Bury to the Minister of Justice for the answer to a number of questions, but I will give you some additional information. With regard to your last question, the police Grape Region is extra committed to increased surveillance, through additional uniformed and anonymous patrols. Under the leadership of the Magistrate, the zone carries out further investigations in the various files. The municipality of Overijse will place temporary fixed cameras at the skate park in order to release them and to identify any suspects. Should new facts arise, action will be taken immediately. On 23 June, the city council gave a positive opinion on this approach. It also looks at the extent to which some young people may be temporarily banned by the administrative authorities. As far as the municipality of Dilbeek is concerned, there are four slopes. Firstly, the monitoring and control of where these young people meet. Secondly, the consultation with the Halle-Vilvoorde public prosecutor on the approach. In the meantime, agreements were made with the Halle-Vilvoorde parquet for the follow-up of young people. Some of these young people will be given the status of a multi-pleger, which means that, in the event of the least infringement, the police will have to contact the public prosecutor with a view to a special measure. This may, for example, be a place ban for minors, but other measures are also possible. These frequenters are also invited to the police for a discussion about the possible consequences of their behaviour and are closely followed by the police, in close consultation with the police. There are also discussions and contacts with the young people themselves. In collaboration with the youth service of the municipality of Dilbeek, contact moments are organized between the youngsters and the police to listen to desires, to clarify what can and cannot be done, to play briefly on the ball and to mention some accompanying measures. At least one parent couple has already been contacted for this purpose. Fourthly, there is administrative enforcement, if necessary. If the previous runs do not produce sufficient results, a police regulation will be taken to sanction malicious cooperation and to order systematic police checks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u45	My party believes that preventive contacts can help. But at some point, it's just too much. If it gets too much, we have to act with a hard hand. I am glad that we are taking action and that there are agreements with the public prosecutor and that we can proceed to malicious cooperation. We keep a close eye on the situation, as do you. It is not inconceivable that not only Dilbeek and Overijse would share the blow, but also other municipalities in the outskirts of Brussels could suffer the same nuisance. Thank you for the answer you have given.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u46	Minister, I have a question about left-wing extremism in Belgium. I have the impression that left-wing parties and left-wing politicians are trying to put up an image by asking a lot of questions about a constant extreme right-wing threat hanging over our country. Even through reports in the French-speaking part of the country one tries to hang an image of an unlivable country. I don't think anything less is true. I think it's the opposite. I think there is a far greater threat of extreme left terrorism, which is on the rise internationally. That was certainly the conclusion of the AIVD Netherlands, which warns about this in its annual report. It is written that extreme left-wing violence has a erratic course with varying intensity. According to the AIVD, leftist extremists are often active in several fields, in varying compositions and sometimes operate internationally. As a recent example, I refer to the death threats against VB MEP Filip Brusselmans from Sint-Niklaas. The police take the matter seriously and have increased supervision around his house since 12 June. That's not the only example. I know a lot of them. I can also refer to the many vandal areas and attacks that have already been carried out at my headquarters of the Flemish Interest on the Madouplein nearby, to a firebomb. Minister, what is the state of play on left-wing extremism in our country? Were attacks by left-wing extremist groups thwarted in recent years? If so, how many attacks are involved? Can you explain that? Is there a causal link between the extreme left-wing violence and recent destruction and looting in the name of Black Lives Matter in recent weeks? Do the police have an idea of the threat that might arise from that? Have any new groups been noticed? Do our services have a good view of the online activities of left-wing extremist groups such as Antifa, a group that has recently been officially classified in the US as a terrorist organisation? Does our services cooperate internationally with a view to preventing left-wing extremist violence? If so, can you explain this cooperation? If not, will you take the necessary steps?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, various groups and so-called collectives, both right-wing and left-wing, are known to our police and intelligence services. Their activities are actively monitored. That used to be a very dangerous explanation. The police are currently following nine groups of left-wing extremist signature and 1,315 persons linked to one or more of those nine groups. The nature of the succession shall be determined individually at a district level in consultation with all partners. In addition, ten people are currently registered in the common database with the label "Hate propaganda inspired by left-wing extremist ideas." In recent years, there have been no attacks or plans to attack in our country inspired by left-wing extremistism. A series of acts of violence and vandalism committed between 2008 and 2013 by persons of the Brussels anarchist insurgent movement were the subject of judicial proceedings. However, in May 2019, the Brussels Correctional Court ruled that the prosecution was inadmissible and released the defendants. The federal prosecutor has appealed against that verdict. As far as police is concerned, no causal link between known left extremist groups or individuals, on the one hand, and the movement Black Lives Matter, on the other hand, can be demonstrated at the moment. There is no structural threat of the BLM movement in itself. However, since actions can be taken in the name of the movement or the thought good, punctual recovery can never be ruled out. Antifa is a collective name for people and movements who call themselves anti-fascists and is not currently being followed as a group in Belgium at central level, unlike in the United States. The activities of known extremist groups and collectives on internet forums, social media and websites are actively monitored. For this purpose, the federal police have an Internet Referral Unit within the central board of serious and organised crime, which is responsible for detecting crimes on the Internet, including social media, including extremist messages and hate speech. All relevant information in this respect shall be communicated to the partners in the security chain, including the coordination body for the threat analysis, you know, which shall carry out regular analyses based on that information. These analyses are provided to the National Crisis Centre and to the security services, so that they can better orient their operation and possibly take additional measures. If criminal offences with a Belgian interest are identified, they will always be the subject of a criminal investigation and the procedures for the identification of the publisher and for the possible removal of the message in question from the Internet will be initiated. Finally, in the fight against left-wing extremist violence, such as extreme right-wing violence, there is good international cooperation. The competent authorities of the federal police actively exchange information with the foreign counterparts of the police and intelligence services. The information can be communicated directly via secure networks. In addition, an extensive network of liaison officers or LOs is used.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed explanations and answers. The only thing that surprises me is your statement that there would be no causal link between extreme leftist groups and BLM. In times of modern communication, it is not surprising that a group such as BLM, which originated in the United States, drifts over to Europe. I cannot get the impression that this is being abused by certain extreme left-wing groups and individuals in order, among other things, to bring about destruction and even to combat different political opinions in a harsh manner. I am pleased that the phenomenon is being monitored by our security services. I suggest you keep doing that in the future. As Churchill said, today's antifascists are acting fascistally. I think that's a very true and raucous statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u49	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Donné's 55007384C was postponed. Mr Cogolati and Mr Verduyckt are no longer present.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u50	Mr President, Minister, the fight against sectarian movements must unfortunately be permanent. Recently, the Centre for Information and Advice on Harmful Sectarian Organizations (CIAOSN) has reportedly made several reports to the relevant agencies, including the State Security Service. However, according to some reports in the press, to date no action has been taken against the organisations covered by the reports, either by the State Security Service or by the police. It is known how the sectarian hold can cause direct and collateral human damage to the children of family members or relatives. It is essential that public authorities remain vigilant on this issue in order to ensure protection and support if necessary. In this regard, I was able to read that the federal police were not in a position to monitor the reports of the CIAOSN. Minister, do you confirm that reports have been sent to the federal police in recent months and that no initiatives have been taken as a result of them? How can our police services combat harmful sectarian organizations? What tasks have been assigned to the federal police in recent years in this regard? What specific service is in charge of this problem and how does it collaborate with the State Security? How many reports of acts committed by harmful sectarian organizations have been handled by the police in the last five years? Do you consider it necessary, in view of the reports you receive, to strengthen police work in the fight against these sectarian acts in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u51	Mr. Chairman, Ms. Taquin, the federal police is currently unable to provide precise figures on the number of reports on sectarian movements. So I can't confirm whether she's acting or not. In any case, VOCID surveillance in response to the pandemic did not receive an alert about sects. The sect approach is part of regular police operations. Given the definition of current priorities in the National Security Plan, no specific unit has been designated to proactively monitor sects, for example through imaging. Finally, my services have informed me that encrypted data are not available – or that I am unable to provide them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u52	Minister, thank you for your answer. When it is possible for you to bring me this data, could you pass it on to me?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u53	Mr Cogolati, my answer is as brief: the investigation is still under way. I am therefore unable to comment on the matter or to provide you with more information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u54	Minister, thank you. I hope that the sabotage investigation will move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u55	As part of the work of Long Term Operations (LTO) Doel 1 and 2 and Tihange, additional conditions have been imposed in the operating authorisations of the reactors concerned to ensure that this work is properly implemented. These are the following conditions: each start-up of the reactor which takes place following an LTO revision in the period 2015-2020 must be approved by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN). The Agency will verify that all the actions foreseen in the planning are carried out correctly. As was the case with the various LTO revisions, the Agency gave its approval at each restart. When finalizing the LTO work for each reactor, the operator will prepare a synthesis report on the full implementation of the action plan. For Doel 1 and 2, work has been completed in the meantime. The AFCN gave its green light on 22 and 29 May, respectively, for a restart of these reactors. You can consult the Doel 1 and 2 summary report on the AFCN website. You will find a detailed overview of all the actions and measures that have been implemented. For Tihange 1, the last LTO revision is still underway. It is expected that the synthesis report will be submitted to the AFCN on July 30th. Following evaluation and approval of this report, the reactor could also be restarted and the report will also be available on the AFCN website. To answer your last question, the majority of the deadlines have been met by the operator. For a limited number of actions, the operator asked the PSAN to change the timeframes for implementation. These were actions that the operator was not in a position to complete over time due to delays in the delivery of the required components. The AFCN accepted these changes in time limits as they had no impact on the safety of nuclear facilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u56	Minister, thank you for your prompt and effective response.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u57	Mr President, I am going to surprise you, but I am unable to ask my other questions (Nos. 55007442C, 55007488C and 55007489C). I wish to turn them into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u58	Minister, the press has announced that you and your colleague Clarinval are taking a €30 million envelope for the federal police. But the information remains unclear. Are these the resources released for NAPAP funding? In which case you would then only apply the decisions voted by this Parliament, which is the least we can expect from the government. Or are they "apart from" means, specifically dedicated to investments in the fleet and in information technology? In the latter case, how do these investments come in surplus from long planned amounts? The state of chronic underinvestment in these two departments is known. What investments are planned up to these amounts? In which departments will they be assigned and, possibly, in which judicial districts?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u59	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, the Council of Ministers has proposed new perspectives to the Federal Police by allocating an additional investment of EUR 30 million. It has been granted in surplus of NAPAP appropriations and will be specifically dedicated to various investments that could not be committed this year due to the lack of sufficient budget, given that this government is in day-to-day business. In concrete terms, the appropriations will be allocated to finance the following needs. First of all, I must mention the replacement of the old ASTRID portable radios of the federal police with the project "Proof of Concept Radio", because they are aging. The equipment was put into service in 2009 for a five-year logistical depreciation. They are, moreover, technically outdated. The DGRD has also observed, in recent years, a change in operational requirements that requires the replacement of portable radios. The representatives of the Directorates-General made it clear that they wished to opt for a standard model. Then comes the replacement of the fleet of the federal police, which is also very aging, so that it imposes high repair costs. It consists of 52.3% of vehicles which do not meet the Euro 5 and 6 pollution standards. In addition, this year, 23% of the fleet – or 722 vehicles – met the depreciation criteria and should therefore be replaced. Finally, the old ICT equipment needs to be replaced in order to have new and innovative equipment, as this includes strengthening the units in charge of combating computer crime. Over the past few months, police services have done remarkable work to enforce containment measures on the ground. These additional resources for the benefit of the federal police are a new step in the transition to a more mobile and flexible police organization, which focuses more on a specialized and innovative function.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u60	Minister, thank you for this answer, which has the merit of being clear and complete. I can only welcome this because I have been calling for an increase in the budgets for these federal police departments for years, which I think have been a little neglected for quite a while. So that's very good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u61	Mr President, I would nevertheless like to stress the importance of NAPAP itself and the burdens that have been taken over by federal entities with regard to the financial burdens of NAPAP.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u62	Mr President, Minister, the Act of 4 April 2014 amending section 41 of the Police Function Act provides that police officers shall in all circumstances be identifiable, either by their nameplate or by an intervention number of up to four digits preceded by a code identifying the police area concerned. It leaves it to the King to determine the arrangements and the intentions of the legislator in this respect are made clear by the parliamentary proceedings: it is a matter of ensuring that this intervention number is clearly visible in all circumstances. However, I believe that this is not yet the case systematically today. Minister, can you tell me if the necessary orders were made to reflect the intent of the legislator when this legislation was passed? If so, what are the reasons why certain agents would remain completely unidentifiable during interventions? Have you heard of such circumstances? If not, why would the necessary orders not have been made? Finally, how long do you intend to fix this absence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u63	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, he does not intend to generalize the possibility of replacing the nameplate with an intervention number. On the contrary, parliamentary documents expressly state that the use of the intervention number must be an exception. This is also reflected in the objective of the measure, which is clearly defined and repeated in the parliamentary documents of the Law amending section 41 of the Law on the Police Function in 2016: "The amendment made by the Law of 4 April 2014 to section 41 of the Law on the Police Function was aimed at reconciling the need to be able to identify staff members of the operational framework with the protection of staff members from potential reprisals". To allow field staff to act at any time under the cover of their intervention number is therefore an intention which seems to be contrary to the current section 41 of the Police Function Act. In addition, the purpose of this provision is also to protect police personnel from reprisals in specific and particular circumstances, such as specific cases of law enforcement, certain high-risk searches. There are still other examples. Given the variety of circumstances in which it may be necessary to use the intervention number instead of the nameplate, it is necessary to leave the assessment of these exceptional circumstances to the discretion of the Chief of Staff, the Commissioner General, the Director General or their delegates. The Royal Decree containing the procedure for using the intervention number has not yet been put in place. There is only a royal decree of 23 April 2018 which equates the mention of the intervention number with the mention of the name on the name plate. Since the legal framework has so far always provided sufficient clarity and since no case of intervention by a police officer not directly identified on the spot has, to my knowledge, prevented further identification, the fact that the King has not yet made use of his possibility of adopting a specific royal order has not in practice prejudiced the wishes of the legislator.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u64	Minister, thank you for all the clarifications you have given me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u65	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Metsu's 55007541C has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u66	Minister, the registration of ethnicity of criminals abroad is often evident. This can therefore provide important insights into crime and its causes. Anyone who wishes to pursue an effective preventive crime policy should not miss a chance to record important elements of the criminal profiles. This is in line with the question I just asked. This can help prevent crime and ultimately also create criminal profiles for different criminal offences. These profiles are an important tool for police services to operate efficiently and effectively. Despite the examples of best practices from abroad, where these profiles are used very successfully and despite the advantages mentioned above, the ethnicity of criminals in our country is still not systematically registered. Back in 2015, Minister of Security and Home Affairs Jan Jambon stated that it was not going to systematically register the ethnicity of perpetrators, I quote: "the result was a political choice because it was considered that such registration would discriminate against the ethnic groups concerned." Do you believe, Minister, that ethnic registration by police forces, which is a very common practice in many countries, can contribute to better understanding and combating crime? If so, will you take the initiative to put this back on the political agenda together with your colleague from the Justice Department and to work on it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u67	It is my view that every possible means should be used to help the police to fulfil their duties. I believe that I am doing my best to do that. One has to ask how efficient and effective the registration of the ethnicity of an offender is in detecting crime and/or nuisance. The police services work actively with techniques of profiling that are scientifically based and open to this. This is a mix of parameters that is charged to outline a profile of an unsub or a potential offender. I want to make this clear once again: every way of profiling must be scientifically substantiated. The mere profiling of ethnicity should never be the justification of any form of police action or identity check.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u68	I am not going to thank you this time, because it was not immediately an adequate and comprehensive answer. You repeated a number of things from the previous question, but you did not answer the question why we do not. You're talking about a mix of parameters. Why not just ethnicity? You say that it is not permissible for the police services to act or to conduct investigations on the basis of the ethnicity of a particular suspect or criminal. But that's not at all what I or anyone would have asked. We simply ask that ethnicity be included in addition to a number of other parameters, such as age. On the basis of this data, we will then be able to make better offender profiles and then we will be able to do better and more efficient police work. So it has nothing to do with what you said. A lot of countries are already applying this because it helps to set up criminal profiles and police work. So your answer really wasn't enough this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u69	With this positive note we can conclude the work for today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for being here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic228x.u71	Thank you, Mr President.
