ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u1	Colleagues, there are a lot of questions. I would like to thank you, Madam Secretary, for being here to answer them. I know these are very busy days for you, which is why I want to express my appreciation all the more. We have decided to bring together the questions on the reception of asylum seekers and to turn them into a topical debate. Each speaker who has put a question to that effect will have two minutes to put it. Each group can then agree. Those speakers shall have one minute's speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u2	Madam Minister, I will discuss this issue with my colleague Darya Safai, because we are both following it. The most recent question is whether there are any labour law procedures yet? We have not been able to ask you any questions for two months, so we are indeed grateful that you are here today. The last time was in January. Since then, a number of questions have arisen. Have you taken a measure to deal with the abuse of procedure and to no longer allow the reception of secondary migration and Dubliners? This problem has caused a great deal of controversy. Have any proceedings been brought against this measure? Why do you not do this now, if the law does not provide for secondary migration reception, if someone has already reached a safe haven and is still travelling to this country or in Dublin cases? Do you have permission? There has been a great deal to do about the legality of the measure. I refer to my colleague Darya Safai's bill to provide that legal basis. It will come back to that in detail. There hasn't been one so far. So we're wondering what convictions there are. Are there any cases pending? Do you have permission? Why didn't you bring it up until now? How many people in these situations have you refused to take care of since you introduced the measure a few months ago? What happened to those people? Have they been sent back to their first safe haven and thus to the Dublin country that is responsible or to their country of origin? What exactly happened to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister, I thank you for your presence despite the busy news for you. At the beginning of January, you were informed of your decision to deprive certain categories of asylum seekers of reception. This decision concerns asylum seekers who have received an Annex 26quater on the basis of the Dublin III Regulation but who have not been transferred to the competent Member State within six months and for which Belgium has become competent, as well as asylum seekers who submit a first application in Belgium but who already have an international protection status (recognition as a refugee or subsidiary protection) in another Member State of the European Union. So far, you stand out from your predecessor, working with responsibility on structural solutions to overcome the lack of places in asylum centres. As you know, this lack of places is not due to an alleged "migration crisis". This is indeed a consequence of your predecessor's policy, which you inherited: closure of reception centres, reduction of staff to deal with new requests resulting in a loss of expertise and a prolongation of procedures. Today, in the face of what is a crisis of reception, your solution is to prevent certain categories of people from exercising their fundamental rights by depriving them of the reception that we are under an obligation to grant them under the 2007 Home Law. This decision is ineffective, illegal and inappropriate. I'll come back. Minister, what is the situation today with regard to the number of missing places in the Fedasil network? Can you explain to us how this instruction sent to your administration is, in your opinion, in accordance with the 2007 Act, which aims to organize the reception of any refugee candidate? In 2019, what was the number of applicants for international protection who already had a status in another EU Member State? What was the percentage of these applicants for whom the CGRA decided that their application was admissible? In 2019, what was the number of applicants for international protection who received an Annex 26quater but were not transferred to the competent Member State within six months and for which Belgium became responsible? What was the percentage of these individuals compared to the total number of individuals who received Schedule 26quater?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u4	Mr President, I have a very different question from the current one. However, it has returned to the current affairs debate. The first concerned a recent European case law which would now prohibit the exclusion of an applicant for international protection from reception centres for disciplinary reasons, considering that the measure is disproportionate. The exclusion of a centre is obviously an ultimate measure that must be avoided. It is always a failure for the institution and it also puts the applicant for international protection in difficulty. Unfortunately, this measure is sometimes necessary, even if only to guarantee the protection of workers and other residents of the centre, simply because the person, by his or her behaviour, is unable to stay in a centre. In this measure of temporary or even definitive exclusion, we must see a protective role and also an exemplary role. If this case law is actually implemented, and I think it is, in any case, for minors, what will be done tomorrow, however, to address the concerns of staff in the face of acts which are fortunately exceptional, but which, unfortunately, sometimes lead to or could lead to serious consequences for people and property? Do you confirm to me that such a judicial decision has been taken at European level? What are the concrete implications for our host network? What alternative solutions do you consider if, in fact, we can no longer carry out temporary or permanent exclusions from the network in order to ensure the safety of workers, but also of other residents? This question dealt with one of the themes. Would I lay down the others too? Yes. For these, Madam Minister, I will not go too far into the context. We talked about your decision to exclude certain categories of people from the network. First of all, I was concerned about the problem of vulnerabilities. There are indeed applicants for international protection who are particularly vulnerable. Putting them out of the network, whatever the reasons, can put them at risk and increase the disorders they already suffer. Have you put in place specific measures to control the vulnerability of these people? If so, by whom? How? What are the criteria? How many people in these specific categories have received a reception place based on their vulnerability? What are the updated figures for asylum seekers who have not been accepted since the start of the measure? In the same vein, I would also point out that it is regrettable that this measure by the federal government imposes a winter plan on the regions and municipalities which must take care of applicants for international protection but who are on the street, thus without a fixed place of residence. Therefore, the tightening of federal policy has implications for regional policy. Do you intend to compensate for this negative impact on local and regional authorities in their respective missions? Finally, with regard to daily periodic penalty payments, it is clear that Fedasil has been convicted for failing to accommodate persons entitled to periodic penalty payments of EUR 125 per day. How many cases of this kind have been recognised in the various courts since the implementation of your "dublinable" inquiry? Are there any other convictions of this type to date? Given the amount of periodic payments and the costs of justice, do you not think that the measures you have taken could ultimately be more costly for the public treasury than the opening of additional places? Do you not consider that there are serious reasons to revise your position on material aid, particularly on the "Dublin"?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u5	Madam Minister, I too appreciate your presence here under these circumstances. At the beginning of this year, you took some measures restricting the right to receive certain applicants for international protection. Applicants with a protection status in another EU Member State and applicants with Dublin signalling who submit a new application after six months in Belgium will no longer be entitled to reception. With regard to this second category, you made it clear in the press that these are applicants in Belgium and then six months in hiding, after which Belgium will be responsible for examining their asylum application, and then re-apply. However, in the case of hiding, the deadline for Dublin transfer is extended to 18 months. Firstly, are the measures you are proposing in accordance with the legislation, in particular the 2007 Reception Act? Secondly, are the measures you are proposing in accordance with the EU Reception Directive 2013/36/EC? Thirdly, how many people who meet the profile outlined above have been taken into the care network in the past year? What percentage of the reception capacity is this? Finally, as has been said in the case of hiding, the deadline for Dublin transfer is 18 months instead of six months. Thus, by definition, people for whom Belgium is competent after six months have not gone into hiding. However, the procedure may have dragged on too long or the administration has waited too long to decide. Is it not a violation of the principle of equality to refuse these people reception if they make a new application when Belgium has become competent?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u6	Madam Minister, 27,742 applications were submitted in 2019, which is 18 % higher than in 2018 and 40 % higher than in 2017. The recognition rate was only 37%. In January 2020 2,739 applications were submitted, of which only 30.7% were recognised. The conclusion is that it is no longer about an asylum flow, but about a migration movement aimed at building a better life in our country, regardless of protection motives. The problem with the policy is that signals were sent out again and this country was presented as attractive. The first victims are, of course, those who really need protection. This is particularly evident from the figures of the CGVS, which on its website points to the growing problem of secondary influx. In this context, we have tabled a legislative proposal, which I would ask you to support, Madam Minister. The content of our bill is as follows. In order to ease the pressure on the reception system for asylum seekers, our proposal sets the existing margins for narrowing the scope of the European reception directives in Belgian reception legislation. In particular, our proposal now refuses access to asylum seekers who are nationals of a Member State of the European Union, the European Economic Area or Switzerland, as well as to asylum seekers who have applied for multiple asylum applications. Those provisions are fully in line with the EU Directive. There are currently problems in Turkey. Madam Minister, do we respond to the request to send reinforcement for Frontex to Greece? 30 police officers are being asked to help protect Europe's borders.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u7	Mr President, Minister, we have heard that you will deny the right of reception to two categories of refugees, namely those who apply for multiple asylum and those who already enjoy international protection in another European country. However, the first category of people, even though registered in another European country, still has the right under the Dublin Regulation to apply for asylum in another European country, such as Belgium. People who are already receiving protection - the second category - can still obtain international protection in a new European country if they can prove that the Geneva Convention is not being complied with in the present country where they are receiving protection. Moreover, it is not up to the reception structures to judge who is entitled to protection and who is not. However, it is up to the CGVS to individually assess whether someone is eligible for protection. Finally, there is no legal basis for this decision either because Fedasil may only restrict reception within the existing legal framework. So your decision violates the right of reception. An additional problem is that there have not been enough temporary reception places on standby to accommodate asylum seekers. That is why NGOs fear that your decision will lead to more homeless refugees and that the homeless shelter in cities such as Brussels, which is already oversaturated, will be subject to additional burdens. Did you know that your decision to refuse certain groups of asylum seekers asylum seekers is illegal or not? If so, why did you make that decision? Will you reverse your decision so that the right of reception for the affected groups of asylum seekers is respected?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u8	Mr President, I was waiting for the registered colleagues to finish. I would like to speak in the topical and urgent debate on the reception. Undoubtedly, with what is happening now in Europe and particularly in Turkey, where borders have been opened as reprisals by Mr Erdogan, following a very lame agreement that we have reached, migrants have become hostages. The consequence is also that Europe is divided, since it is Greece which takes the majority of these refugees at present. The European presidential trio is currently in Greece. Another fact is also reported. I don't know if, at this point, it's proven. The Greek Coast Guard reportedly fired on a migrant boat. It's not annoyance. This will inevitably have consequences for the reception in Belgium, since there are a lot of refugees. If European representatives are on the spot, it is of course with a view to a fair distribution. It is known that there are no States in the distribution, including a number of countries that have decided not to accept it. Italy, Greece – close to Turkey – mostly absorb these refugees. Minister, my questions are simple. Do you have any information about the shootings that, according to the press, were operated on? What is your position at European level in this difficult situation? We know that the lame agreement with Turkey is at the origin of this. Migrants have become a currency of exchange and a means of blackmail compared to other demands of Turkey in a conflict that exceeds these migrants. Undoubtedly, we are – probably like other European countries – going to have to deal with a larger influx of asylum seekers from this region. I would like to know whether preventive measures have been taken and what steps Belgium is taking at European level to enforce Turkey's commitments and to support Greece. Turkey has decided not to comply with an agreement which, of course, is lame. We knew that this agreement was going to explode in the face because we knew what Turkey was capable of.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u9	I'm very flexible, Mrs. Matz. This goes beyond the topical debate. It is about the reception of asylum seekers. We can interpret that widely, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u10	I'm sorry, but I can't know what the President of Turkey is investigating today at the border, and whether or not a boat has been shot. I'm not a fly that can take a look at the Turkish-Greek border. Your questions are correct, but I really can't answer them now. This is happening right now and I have been in Parliament since this morning at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u11	My question concerns the reception and anticipation of a conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u12	If you ask questions about reception, you will have answers. Your question was not about reception.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u13	I think Madam Secretary is right about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u14	There are other colleagues, such as myself and Mr Moutquin, who have put questions about the situation in Greece. I don't know if that theme can be addressed now?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u15	We're not gonna do that. Your question, Mr De Vriendt, was tabled just in time to be on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u16	I have a lot to say on this subject too. The other issues will certainly be dealt with in the course of this day. I wouldn't point the finger too much at the Greeks or the Greek Coast Guard. Those people have been through a lot in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u17	As I have always said, it is a good thing that the universal values of the system of international protection exist. This system was created by the Geneva Convention and we must therefore protect those who need it. I would like to move on to the other department for which I am responsible and where it is quiet for the time being, namely Social Security. Those who have rights must also be given what they are entitled to, but at the same time they must be prevented from using or misuse. In this case, there is a need to combat as much as possible the abuse of asylum procedures as possible, otherwise the public support for aid will disappear. As Mrs Safai said, that is a pity for those who really need protection. The system is therefore in danger of collapsing. Since I took over the Department of Asylum and Migration, there has been an enhanced chain cooperation between the respective authorities. Every Tuesday morning I call together all the services Fedasil, the Foreign Office and the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. We will then have a staff meeting with the Director-General, the Director and the Administrator-General. There is therefore an enhanced chain cooperation between the authorities, which will enable us to better see if there are any forms of abuse. This will only become clear if there is a concerted approach among all the authorities, which I have organised from the outset. Thanks to this enhanced chain cooperation, new abuse phenomena have been detected early. It then starts with 10 cases and then evolves to 50 or 100. So we see the filières growing against which we must act. Two specific target groups are the subject of recent measures. A first group concerns applicants who have already received protection status in another Member State. These applicants have effective protection and enjoy all necessary civil and social rights. These include the right to protection, social assistance, the right to work, family reunification and others. Their application is almost always declared inadmissible by the CGRA. Since the summer, this phenomenon has increased to more than 200 people per month. A second group concerns applicants for whom the Aliens Office found that another Member State was responsible under the Dublin Regulation. As you know, when I took office, I strengthened the Dublin cell of the Foreign Affairs Office because it had been in a rapidly rising labour supply since mid-2018. In the meantime, the treatment periods are also falling and the number of requests for readmission and orders to leave the territory is also rising. However, we note that an increasing number of applicants who are ordered to leave the country refuse to return to that Member State to have a request for protection dealt with there. These people consciously choose not to participate in the return to the competent Member State, go into hiding and apparently do not need shelter for several months by our Fedasil system and partners, where guidance for return to the competent Member State is provided. Since autumn 2019, 200 to 300 persons have reported monthly, the transfer period for which the Dublin Regulation has expired. These are, therefore, individuals who use the asylum procedure only in order to obtain a right of residence and social assistance in Belgium. It is not unreasonable to regard the behaviour of these asylum seekers as abuse. This form of asylum shopping is not in line with European rules and the idea of the common European asylum system and indeed needs to be combated. If people manage to live in our country for six months and sometimes change their addresses daily or every three days, so that we cannot trace them and then come back after six months, they say that they are staying here, that we need to re-examine their asylum application and that they want to go into the shelter, then that is a peculiar thing to do. I asked my administration to start following these target groups closely. We have also taken steps to decisively and quickly put an end to these abuses. We act in the legal cade and do what is necessary both in terms of procedure and in terms of reception. For example, applications from applicants with a statute in the other Member States are dealt with very quickly by our asylum authorities. In other words, we have installed fast tracks for that. Similarly, the staff enhancement of the Dublin Office for Foreign Affairs will enable the Dublin Office to monitor Dublin files better and more quickly and to systematically extend the deadline for the transfer of Dublin cases in hiding. There is also an extra effort on removal after a negative decision. Fedasil also takes into account possible elements of abuse when deciding on the allocation of a reception place. An applicant with protection in a neighbouring country is entitled to social assistance there and therefore does not need to receive care in Belgium. It can also be assumed that an applicant who has chosen for months not to stay in a shelter and to remain under the radar of our authorities apparently has an alternative solution. It may be premature to draw far-reaching conclusions, but the initial results show that these measures do have an impact on the influx of those target groups. There are therefore fewer people covered by this scheme every month. So that's also a bit of a betrayal measure, maybe in a weird way. We are indeed seeing a sharp decline in trend. For example, in February, the asylum influx of these target groups will be almost half lower than before the introduction of the measure. Together, it is about about 200 asylum applications less in one month: from 450 in October we dropped to 250 in February. This shows that there is indeed abuse in the game. For the shelter, the effect is even greater. A little over 100 people from these target groups will be received in February. We'll still provide shelter if people need it. That is more than 70 % less compared to before. Our reception system is moaning under the great influx. If, with this measure, we get 70% less of those groups, that means that that was an abnormal filière. The figures clearly show that Fedasil does not systematically refuse to accept these target groups, but only targets applicants who actually abuse the system, while always taking into account the individual situation and the possible vulnerability of those concerned as well as other factors that may influence the possibility of asserting their rights in another Member State. In this case, almost half of the people are welcomed. About 20% of the respondents choose not to stay in the host network themselves. It is only in one out of three cases that abuse plays a role in the decision not to assign a place of reception. At the moment, Fedasil is informed of some 30 cases brought to justice. This does not yet represent 5% of the two target groups covered by the measures. As you can see, these are complex situations. A debate may take place about the decision; such discussions before a judge are not abnormal. Each year, more than 250 cases against Fedasil's decisions are brought to justice because there are different opinions on the merits. I would like to stress that Fedasil always respects the judge's ruling and will not, under any circumstances, allow it to go so far as to require periodic penalty payments. I hope that this will give you a nuanced picture of the measures taken. It is clear that any comparison with the asylum quota introduced at the end of November 2018 is completely absurd and demonstrates a total lack of knowledge on the matter. Combating our measures abuses of the asylum procedure, they do not randomly target all asylum seekers as the asylum quota did. So I work focused, and I work mainly on the abuse. The measures have been put forward on a proposal from the authorities and after thorough consultation and coordination with all our bodies. They are not manifestly illegal, as opposed to the asylum quota, on which the Council of State considered it to be illegal in a matter of weeks after its introduction. These measures are not applied blindly, but take into account individual circumstances and, above all, vulnerability. They do not leave anyone on the street without registration or security check by the competent authorities. We do not take any undue risk to public order or security. The measures have no short-term effect and no boomerang effect such as the asylum quota, where Fedasil and the asylum authorities had to continue working hard for weeks or months in the aftermath to register and receive all asylum seekers left on the streets. The measures also did not result in people arriving in queues for the Little Castle. On the contrary, they ensure that we can reserve the places to the maximum for newcomers who apply for asylum in our country for the first time, after arriving in the EU, and we can assume that many of them are right to come here and ask for our help.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u18	Madam Minister, thank you for the answer, which was very detailed and clear, with concrete figures. For the sake of clarity, we support the proposal. We also believe that procedural abuse should be addressed and that those who have already reached a safe harbour elsewhere can be further helped, as is established internationally, and only here an application can be made in case of emergency. You mentioned the figures of the decreased inflow, in particular 200 of the number of applications. You also said that the reception had fallen by 70%, particularly by a hundred. Then what happened to those 100 people? Did they live on the territory, were they repatriated or were they sent back to the country in Europe responsible for examining the application? Do you have a visual on that? You say 30 proceedings were brought before the labour court. Do you know anything about the verdict? Have they been pending, or has a ruling been made in any of those cases? Those are the questions that remain for me. I found it very clear. We support the approach. Hence our bill to anchor the legal basis for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u19	Minister, where do we start? In your answers, you refer to numbers. I'm surprised because I don't find them very clear. You talk about 200 people every month for both cases, you talk about a decrease since these premium measures. But it is quite surprising that we do not have more precise figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u20	I gave the figures: from 450 to 250, and a decrease from 400 to 200.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u21	Monthly? You said "about 200 people since September."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u22	I said 450 in October and 250 in February.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u23	All right. So much for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u24	In the meantime, this has diminished.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u25	Then you're talking about abuse of method, if I'm not mistaken. I am reassured to hear you mention the fact that the cases are still being studied individually. Let's take a person who landed in Greece, who was registered there and who is therefore "dubbed" in Greece. It could be sent back via your decision, while Greece is already completely saturated with asylum applications – we know all the difficulties that currently exist in this country. I am not sure that in this case we are in the context of an abuse of method. Secondly, I am thinking of people who already have subsidiary protection or recognition in other countries of the European Union. I would nevertheless like to mention a number of cases, in particular those of homosexuals registered in Poland, who, in view of the situation against the homosexual community in that country, have decided to reopen an application in Belgium. Again, we can't talk about abuse. The abuse that you mention most, and which we can discuss in other circumstances, is the "shopping of asylum". I can't accept these terms. All studies show that migrants do not go to a country based on social assistance, but on the labour market, or on the presence of communities similar to their own. I cannot let you repeat this myth of migratory flows influenced by social benefits. In addition, you are talking about consultation. Actually, I'm pretty surprised. You had a room for consultation before taking this decision, namely this committee or, more generally, Parliament. I therefore do not understand why, when a resolution is voted on in Parliament for a mechanism for distribution in the Mediterranean Sea, you reject Parliament's decision and that here, on such an important decision that could have been debated in this committee, you completely stalemate the parliamentary democratic space and you take that decision. Finally, I agree with the comments made. This decision will influence the hosts who are already on the edge and who have, for months, had to make up for your predecessor's shortcomings. It will have an impact on a whole series of plans for homelessness in our regions. I regret that there has been no more consultation at regional level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would also like to congratulate you on the asylum policy that you are pursuing because you are not in regular business at this time, neither in Health nor in Migration. I realize how difficult you are with your administration. I really want to congratulate you and Fedasil on the work that is being done. It is true that you are regularly in the legal framework. Here, on the other hand, I have doubts about the dubliners. You have inherited, once again, the damage caused by your predecessor. Madam Minister, I am counting on you and the administration to keep in mind the need to fulfil our legal obligations, first and foremost, to guarantee a right of reception for any person who makes an application for international protection and who is in the conditions for introducing it. It is a major element in my view. In any case, it must be guaranteed for the most vulnerable, always and everywhere. Access to a rapid asylum procedure must, of course, also be guaranteed. That's what's missing today. It is probably on these levers that we must work to meet the needs of the flow and the demands that are increasing and therefore being dealt with less quickly. It is necessary to open the tap in the management of applications. This means dealing with them and not putting them on the sidelines and certainly not preventing the introduction of these protection requests. We obviously agree to combat abuses. I am one of those who also consider, as legalists, that there is a legal framework that must apply with rights and obligations. Where the obligations are not fulfilled, it is out of law and out of framework to benefit from Belgian State aid. In order to combat abuses, priority must be given to changes in procedures – and therefore to legislative work – and to amending legislation if necessary and strengthening the control of the right to reception in collective structures, where there may be persons who unduly benefit from this right and therefore saturate the network. Migration policy must be European. The resolution tabled on the Malta Agreement was recalled. We cannot close our eyes to the "Dubliners" who come from countries where the reception conditions are terrible or to those who already have a status and come from those same countries. Today we see the dire humanitarian situation in the reception centres in Greece. It is not due to the Greeks' refusal to assume their responsibilities, it is due to Europe's lack of courage and solidarity. It is necessary to reflect on a balanced distribution of migrants in Europe and solidarity with all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u27	Mr President, Minister, for the applicants with Dublin signals who submit a new application after six months in Belgium, it is indeed a good thing that an individual assessment is still being carried out on a case-by-case basis. However, we ask you to be very careful with the notion of hiding. We really need to be sure it's about hiding out. There have been cases of people who effectively communicate their address on a regular basis. In that case, it is difficult to talk about hiding. It is then necessary to examine whether they want to deliberately withdraw from control and whether there are no other reasons why this is taking so long, for example overly long Dublin transfer or transfer. The reason why people with Dublin signal who apply for a new asylum after six months in our country are no longer receiving reception is certainly not to target the wrong people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u28	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answers. When I analyse your answers, the decision to refuse reception to those two groups of asylum seekers has reduced the pressure on the number of reception places and on the reception crisis. However, I would also like to look at the causes. The real problem is the policy of under-investment in the reception network. It is first ensured that all temporary reception places are closed, when there are fewer applications, and then that there is a shortage of reception facilities. I don't understand that very well. The asylum applications will increase and fall more often. So there have to be structural enough places to cope with these fluctuations. The problem is the undercapacity created by the policy itself. It is high time that something was done about this. The problem will not be solved by refusing reception to certain groups of asylum seekers. Finally, we have received information from the site that during the week of 3 February 2020 the doors of the application centre of the Foreign Affairs Office were closed twice about an hour early. As the centres are overcrowded, it seems more like de facto quotas are being imposed, which is, of course, forbidden. That's what I was gonna give you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u29	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answers. I have also received answers to my questions about reception and its legal anchoring in the legislation through our legislative proposals. However, I also raised the question of whether you know that Frontex is sending reinforcements to Greece. Have you heard anything about this in the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u30	Mr President, Mrs Safai, I am attending tomorrow's JAI (Justice & Affairs intérieures). We will hear the questions that will be asked about the new situation there. We have always supported Frontex. It therefore seems logical to me that a possible question should be answered. But I do not want to anticipate that because I do not yet know which questions will be asked. As I said earlier, I also want solutions to be found through a wider policy, at European level. The European Commissioner, Mrs Johansson, has been with me. I have told her that we are not in favour of a single measure to cure am Symptom, but that we want a whole package of measures. We believe that those countries that are now moaning under secondary migration should receive more attention. Mrs. Johansson took that. We also actively participate in the installation of her plan. This now comes between bicycles, but we will be as constructive as possible. Just solving one problem and letting the rest muddy up is not an option for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u31	Madam Minister, I note that you still had answers to the questions I asked, since they concerned the European level and the situation in Greece. I have not had an answer on the possibility of anticipation at the level of the reception we should be facing. I guess it will come later, but not too late I hope. I also assume that you will relay a number of our concerns to the European Council that is taking place tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u32	I think you've answered everything that needed to be answered, Madam Secretary. Anything else you'd like to add?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u33	I just want to come back to the legal basis on M status. The reception by Fedasil is a form of social assistance. One can only be entitled to social assistance if one is needy. This is not the case for people who have social rights in other countries, they have income and rights there. The free movement of persons within the European Union is also based on the principle that one cannot simply call on the social assistance of the country to which one is moving. That is a general principle for every European citizen. The Reception Act clearly states that persons with a subsequent request may be excluded. What applies to a subsequent application is a priori for those who have not only already received a decision, but also a protection status. As far as the Dublin Regulation is concerned, it is not Greece, Hungary or Bulgaria. The top 3 countries to which Belgium sends takeover requests are Germany, France and the Netherlands. I assume that there are no problems in returning to this, it is about shopping between the Member States. Is that legal? Yes, because Article 4 of the Reception Act clearly states that the Agency has the right to restrict or withdraw material aid. This applies, firstly, if an asylum seeker refuses, does not use or leaves the mandatory place of registration allocated to him by the Agency without informing the Agency; or if consent is required without obtaining consent. Secondly, if an asylum seeker does not comply with the obligation to notify for a reasonable period of time, i.e. if one does not move once, but is moved every day or twice a day, or if one requests for information or appears for a personal interview concerning the asylum procedure. In other words, one disappears in the park and then returns after more than six months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u34	I have not yet received an answer to my question about the procedures. You said that there are about 30 procedures pending. Are there any statements on this or are all these matters still pending? Do you know what has happened to the 100 people who have been refused reception since the introduction of the measure? Are they still staying here illegally? Have they been sent back?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u35	I suspect most of them will return, because we will not find them. Nor do we order them to leave the territory. They see it doesn't take here and they go back. As far as procedures are concerned, I have to ask the Legal Service because I am a doctor and not a lawyer. I'm doing the analysis of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u36	That's obvious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u37	Madam Secretary, I had indeed seen a JAI meeting tomorrow. We would like to ask you to pay attention to the humanitarian situation at the border between Greece and Turkey, and above all to take account of the need for humanitarian assistance and to see what our country can do, preferably coordinated at European level. Many of those people are now stuck there, purely based on fake news spread from Turkey. It is often about vulnerable profiles and families with children. It should be possible to accommodate those people and offer them protection whenever they wish and apply for it. We would also ask you to argue that Greece should not organise people's pushbacks without having the opportunity to apply for asylum. There is a testimony from a Syrian who could cross the border and who was sent back to Turkey without having the opportunity to submit an official application for protection. These are all matters that you can discuss at European level, or certainly with your Greek colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u38	Madam Minister, you said that a migrant who is eligible for social assistance in another country could be returned legally. I would like to inform you of the decision taken in 2011 by the European Court of Human Rights, which condemned Belgium for the removal of a person to Greece. It had considered that the migrant in question, given the state of the country and its asylum system, could not enjoy his right. We are at risk of a similar condemnation, given the overpopulation of migrants in Greece. I would therefore like to alert you on this point. Secondly, I share my colleague's concern about pushback. You've been telling us that you've been here for 10 hours – and I agree. This noon, the BBC broadcast a very clear video where we see not only Greek coastguards shooting at a migrant boat, but also trying... Tell me, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u39	But this is not about the Greeks, I told you. You're not listening!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u40	I do not see how this does not concern them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u41	You're talking about the Greeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u42	No, but I think everyone brought in some things. Tomorrow, you will attend a meeting on this subject. I'm not just talking about the Greeks. But let's talk about them. As far as our debate is concerned, I believe that we could take a wise, courageous and timely decision today, suspending Dublin's referrals to Greece to support the Greek people and their government, as long as the local situation calms down. Switzerland has already taken such a decision. It would be interesting to take this step at the present time. I talked about the Greeks...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u43	We're not sending these people back. We say they don't get shelter, but we don't send them back. There are no Dublin transfers with them, so we're not sending them back.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u44	Minister, I was not speaking about your decision, but generally. Switzerland had already decided not to send "dubbed" people back to Greece. Beyond the question of reception, this is a measure that you could take now: that is, you would decide not to return to Greece migrants who are already registered there, so that they can apply for asylum here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u45	Minister, for several months, I have been seeking annual activity reports from closed centres. It seems to me essential that parliamentarians have access to this type of document in order to be able to monitor the impact of the policy on closed centres. I have spoken several times to the directors of the centres, who have answered me either not being able to give me these documents or not having them. It is particularly regrettable that elected officials whose task is to control the government cannot consult these essential documents so that an informed parliamentary debate can take place. Minister, why is the publication of these reports impossible? Would you be in favour of a wider and more systematic publication of these reports?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u46	Mr Moutquin, I am not in favour of the publication of internal documents. The Aliens Office publishes on its website an annual report containing validated statistics on closed centres. In the meantime, the Agency informed me that the annual report of the closed centres had been sent to you on 19 December. As you have them, you can, as a Member of Parliament, always visit the closed centres. They're all open to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u47	I think you know very well that I will often visit them. Thank you for your welcome. However, I think I remember – to check – that in the law it is stipulated that each closed centre must produce an annual report, which is not specifically linked to the statistics of the Office of Foreigners. You do not support the publication of these annual reports by closed centre, but do you confirm your support for the Members' obtaining these annual reports by closed centre, without disseminating them?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u48	The report of the Aliens Office is the official report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u49	But normally, every closed centre has a report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u50	Yes, but sometimes they have mistakes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u51	I agree with you. That's why I'm asking for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u52	You must have correct figures and the report produced by the Office is at your disposal. Of course, we have to control. There's still double counting. It's not easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u53	I'll take an example. I have had access to the report from the Vottem Centre, which referred in particular to problems in terms of the lack of specialized mental health personnel. It is very interesting for us, as parliamentarians, to be able to point out such questions so that we can discuss them with you. Beyond the figures, these closed-centre reports point to realities that may prove interesting. But I hear your answer and will go through the Aliens Office for further information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u54	Debates of the European Parliament 55002395C by Mr Van Langenhove has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u55	Mr President, Madam Minister, just before the Christmas holiday, I was arrested at the end of my communal council in Rhode-Saint-Genesis by the representative of a Brazilian family threatened with expulsion. This family has lived in Belgium for eleven years. Their three children were born in Belgium and speak both national languages fluently. Parents speak French and both have fixed jobs. On 9 December 2019, at 0600 hours, the police arrested the family and transferred it to one of Zulte's return houses, awaiting deportation to Brazil. As a result, parents can no longer assume their professional responsibilities and children no longer attend school. Meanwhile, the mother's state of health has worsened in such a way that their expulsion is temporarily suspended. But it's only temporary. Madam Minister, the situation of this family is in fact an example of what hundreds of other families in our country are experiencing every year, who are threatened with deportation to a country with which they have no or no connection, unlike Belgium where they are perfectly integrated. I do not think this is acceptable and ask you the following questions. Do you consider that these families must necessarily be deprived of housing, work and school during the examination of their deportation proceedings, a fortiori when the arrest is challenged in court as was the case a few weeks ago? Would it not be time to evaluate our policies of removal and expulsion, particularly with regard to perfectly integrated families in Belgium? How many families have been expelled or threatened with expulsion in recent years? For what reason and after how many years of residence in Belgium? Is it not also time to clarify, in the 1980 Act, the criteria giving rise to regularisation? Common sense and legal certainty would like these criteria to include, at the very least, the stay in Belgium for more than X years, as well as the having of children who have attended school in a primary or secondary school for X years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u56	Mr President, Mrs Rohonyi, I say and repeat: I cannot answer here about individual dossiers. I didn't do it either in 2011, 2012, or 2013, and I'm not planning to do it now either. I can just tell you that a lot of things are wrong. However, I would like to stress once again that there is often a lack of nuances in the press when it comes to such cases. Often, families have been illegally staying in the Territory for many years without ever trying to regularize their stay. Moreover, orders to leave the Territory were often ignored and the chances of returning voluntarily with the necessary support were not seized, as a result of which families were in difficult situations. I find that an illegal stay alone cannot create rights or lead to regularization. But I leave it to the next government to take a position on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u57	Thank you, minister, for your answer, even if it does not surprise me at all. I asked you to consider this particular situation by anticipating a motion that will reach you in the next few days. Indeed, my communal council will vote on a motion that will be addressed to you, in order to take the necessary steps in view of the very particular situation of this family. Be aware that even if you cannot answer me, you will be called upon to respond to the motion that will be voted on this evening at my communal council. As for the wrongness of some of my statements, I also allow myself to nuance your remarks. What I highlighted is not about the press, but about the regular meetings I had with this family and its lawyers. I wanted to highlight the situation of this family, but also that of all these families. Regularization procedures are so long in our country that we come to situations where these families would be completely uprooted if they were to be expelled after ten, fifteen or twenty years. This seems totally unfair to me and deeply shockes the public, minister. You say that you are not in a position to settle the situation, and that it will rather be up to the next government to do so. It is not in your interest or in the interest of these families to remain in such legal uncertainty. In doing so, all the more so, we are not honouring our international commitments. We do not respect the right of children to regular education. We do not respect the right to family privacy or the fact that children must remain with their parents, regardless of their legal status. You really have to be careful about it. You will have to answer, whether you want it or not, the particular case that I highlighted through my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u58	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vermeersch's 55002425C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u59	Madam Minister, on 6 December the United Nations Human Rights Committee published its comments on the sixth periodic report on Belgium. The Committee expresses its concern about the use and situation in detention centres for the return of refused asylum seekers. It condemns, among other things, the deprivation of liberty of families, pregnant women and children. In addition, it is also critical about the construction of closed units and the limited room for movement for migrants in return homes. The Committee also considers the situation in detention centres to be problematic. Problems include the high level of overpopulation in the centres, the lack of alternatives to deprivation of liberty, the lack of access to health care and services, the use of too much medication, the suicide rate in the detention and detention of persons with mental disorders in the psychiatric outbuildings of the centres where care and treatment are inadequate. The Committee recommends banning the detention of migrants, specifically children, families and pregnant women, and working on alternatives in line with international conventions on political rights and civil rights and the rights of the child. I have two questions for you. What alternatives to detention centres have already come under your policy? What alternatives will you be working on? Secondly, what initiatives will you take to address the problems raised by the UN Human Rights Committee in detention centres?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u60	Mrs Daems, first of all, a number of concerns you raise here, such as the overpopulation, the lack of access to health services, the excessive use of medication and the suicide rate, clearly relate to our prisons. I used to get those reports myself when I was in charge of the Justice Department. This is mainly about prisons and not about closed centres. As far as these prisons are concerned, I refer you to my colleague Koen Geens, Minister of Justice. As far as closed centres are concerned, there is currently no overpopulation, and that has not been the case for a long time. In addition, all persons are given the necessary medical care. By the way, we cannot allow overcrowding in a closed centre, because that would endanger the safety of our security people. A closed center is not a prison, it is another accommodation, and if we were to install an overpopulation there, we would have the syndicates, rightly, on our roof. They would say: that is no longer a safe way to work! I've had years of experience negotiating with syndicates. The medical care in the closed centers are given as it should. As an alternative to detention, I am primarily committed to voluntary return. Also in a closed center people can decide to return voluntarily. The period of their order to leave the territory may then be extended. If a person actually takes steps towards a voluntary return, he may apply for an extension in order to be able to prepare himself sufficiently for his departure. If the possibility of voluntary return is not addressed, detention should take place in a closed institution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u61	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. I'm a little confused. The United Nations Human Rights Committee included in its report on observations in detention centres. You say it's not about the detention centers, it's about the prisons. Then who's wrong?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u62	There's always a really big hatch over the prisons. There is also always a smaller hatch over the closed centers. The general issues you mentioned, such as suicide rates, are really not on our agenda. This isn't about the closed centers. There's been a mistake somewhere. Maybe you got that question from someone else? That report is about other matters. I have always received these people to talk about asylum and migration, and to talk about justice when I was in charge. But that's separate in those reports. You're comparing apples and pears, excuse me. I know that because I had the two powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u63	Okay, thank you. We shall continue with that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u64	And read that report once!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u65	Madam Minister, my question dates back to the time when you announced that the Pearls beach in Lommel would be extended to 160 people. Today, the Pearls beach is the largest asylum centre in our country with 950 people. Personally, I think that is a lot, especially because it is not centrally located, far from everything, and along a regional road. There have been some problems with public transport, among other things. Flanders has appointed a liaison officer to solve the problems between our government, Fedasil, the local government and De Lijn. I must say that it goes a long way if we have to work in this way in our country. I have a few questions on this, Madam Minister, but my first question is no longer applicable. I've already gone to the scene myself. There is now a mix of permanent camping visitors and people who are taken care of in the center. They used to be separate, today they are mixed together. How does that work out, because that's a novelty? What exactly is everything about licensing? After all, a campsite is used for the reception of asylum seekers. Is the extension in line with the capacity utilisation rate that the operator has with the city of Lommel? In the past there has also been something to do around Hengelhoef, which is why I thought that an asylum centre does not really belong in a recreation area, unless it is about a temporary situation. What's going on here? To what extent is this a temporary situation? Is it possible to have a problem with the Parelstrand's tourist license? In the meantime, do you know anything about the timing of the asylum centre?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u66	Mr Verduyckt, the new applicants are welcomed in the existing mobile homes in another part of the holiday park. Therefore, no new units were provided for this purpose. All mobile homes are normally rented for tourist use. There is no reason for Fedasil to believe that the units that were recently put into service were rejected in the Netherlands. On the contrary, the mobile homes in which the new applicants were received are of a more recent production date than the units that Fedasil already rented on the initial part of the holiday park and are also in compliance with Fedasil's quality and safety standards. Fedasil has no plans at this time with regard to Eastappen Blue Lake. Article 2 of the Flemish Government's decision of 14 April 2000 determining the required changes to the permit provides for an exception to the requirement to permit the emergency reception of asylum seekers. No authorisation should therefore be requested for such reception in a recreational area. No units have been added for the realization of the additional reception areas. However, an additional number of existing units was put into use by Fedasil. There was no addition, nor has the use of the stands been modified, thus having no effect on both licence and lease holder. The duration of the reception in Lommel is set at the latest until the end of August 2020. I have already confirmed on my visit that the reception centre in Lommel will be the first to close, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u67	Madam Secretary, the first part of your answer is correct. I, too, have been on the spot and I have been able to establish what you are saying. With regard to the second part of your reply, I can repeat that I fully understand the situation. If reception places are needed, they must of course be provided for. However, I would like to point out that the amount of people at that location in Lommel is putting a lot of pressure on the environment, especially since there is no provision at all. I myself volunteered there for the organisation of football matches, but there is nothing nearby, which meant that transport had to be arranged first of all. That's the problem with the location. The people who are being taken there simply walk along the regional road, which causes small annoyances. We therefore find this place not ideal, certainly not to accommodate such a large number of people. We hope at least that the number of people received will be reduced by August 2020. We also wish to see an understanding of the intentions of this place. Lommel is actually a fairly tourist town with large campsites, which used to provide income for the municipality. Today, the situation is very different. Campsites cannot be used structuralally for reception purposes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u68	Madam Minister, in his assessments, issued on 9 December, the UN Human Rights Committee also criticised the way in which Belgium controls the non-refoulement principle. There is no efficient procedure guaranteeing the individual assessment for each person for both applicants for asylum and for persons who are returned. Following the Sudan affair in 2017, your predecessor said that he would strengthen the controls and follow the recommendations of the CGSS in this regard. At the end of 2019, the UN Human Rights Committee notes that more measures need to be taken in Belgium to enable an efficient and effective evaluation for each person. The Committee also believes that there should be more efficient and independent monitoring of return operations. These recommendations serve to keep our policies in line with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. What measures will you take to better check whether someone is at risk of torture in a third country if that person is not given asylum or is returned?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u69	Mrs Daems, I can tell you that before the removal, Belgium will indeed assess the possible breach of Article 3 of the ECHR and the principle of non-refoulement. When the effective nationality of the data subject is not established or the data subject does not provide sufficient effective elements or does not wish to make a request to obtain international protection, it is not always obvious. Following the report of the Commissioner-General for Foreigners and the Stateless on the return of a number of Sudanese people, a procedure was developed to arrive at a quality assessment of the risk of breach of Article 3 of the ECHR in the DVZ and in cooperation with the Commissioner-General. As regards the control of return operations, the General Inspection of the Federal and Local Police is legally competent to carry out the control of forced removal. That is an independent body, and it cannot be influenced by me or by anyone else. In addition, I would like to mention that the Federal Government's declaration of 9 February 2018 established a committee to evaluate the practical implementation of the legal and regulatory provisions in the framework of return policy. That's the Bossuyt Commission. Of course, I am open to any recommendations that the Bossuyt Committee will make. I have already received an interim report and had a meeting with Mr Bossuyt. He is now working on his final report which is expected for this spring, March or April, I think. If I'm still here a little bit, we'll be able to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u70	Thank you for your answer. I believe that Belgium is investigating any risk of torture. However, according to the UN Human Rights Committee, the policy in this area is inadequate. We hope that progress can still be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u71	Madam Minister, in the episode of Thursday 19 December 2019, where you were also invited, we saw a reportage on the bed-bath-bread-accompaniment model, the BBB+ model, as it exists in Utrecht. That model ensures that 90% of the persons without legal residence end up in a shelter and therefore do not end up in the street. You said during that broadcast that the Netherlands is getting the mustard from our model of open return places. However, according to Refugee Work Flanders this is not true at all. At the open places of return, asylum seekers must sign and promise to return before receiving reception, while the Utrecht model helps everyone, without having to sign anything in advance. It also turns out to produce good results: in the end, many people will return voluntarily and another group will eventually be allowed to stay and succeed in finding a job, learning the language and integrating intense guidance. Of all places in Fedasil centers, only 0.7% is an open place to return, which shows that almost no one wants to use them. Contrary to what you claim, there is a substantial difference between our model and the Utrecht model and the Utrecht model shows that it is much more effective. What elements would have taken over the Utrecht model of our model, given the differences that have just been explained? What scientific evidence are there to choose for the model of detention places and open return places, since the Utrecht model has more advantages?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u72	There are more similarities than differences between the two concepts. The open places and the open return centre were already established more than six years ago, during my previous assignment as Secretary of State of the Department. They aim at the same target audience of out-of-court asylum seekers and illegal residents. The common aim of all the projects and centres is to ensure that people who have been processed do not remain illegally in the country and end up on the streets, but that a sustainable solution is provided. The access conditions are very low-threshold. The target audience will be approached differently. In Belgium, for example, we focus more on return points in the cities and the strengthening of relations with cities and municipalities. Recently, Fedasil has also launched a project that focuses specifically on outreach to the target audience of transmigrants. That there is interest from the Netherlands and inspiration is obtained from our model, I can confirm. It was evident from the contacts I had earlier this year with the current and with the previous Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. In November 2019, at the request of the Dutch, another meeting was organised with us, to exchange expertise on each other's projects. In fact, in most cases, these are pilot projects in the Netherlands, which have just been launched and will not be evaluated until 2021. It is therefore necessary to be careful to draw too provisional conclusions and comparisons. In terms of performance, efficiency and results, the Belgian voluntary return policy is certainly equivalent to that of the Netherlands. I do not need to remind you that I give priority to voluntary return. But the forced return is and remains the final piece of an effective return policy. Detention sites are, of course, necessary in order to avoid the eventual illegal residence of persons who do not take part in the voluntary return assistance offered. I must add that closed centres are also used in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u73	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. In December 2019 we attended the conference Beyond Return of Vlaanderenwerk Vlaanderen in Parliament. Jan Braat, the policy advisor Migration of Utrecht, also came to talk about the BBB. I was very impressed with the whole system. I would advise you to take a closer look in Utrecht. The procedure will be restarted there. It checks whether certain items in the system have been missed and whether there have been errors in the procedure. In Utrecht, this is not a pilot project. The project dates back to 2001 and has produced very good results.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u74	Mrs Daems, I know the project. Few asylum seekers have returned to the project. Most have found other legal ways or regularisations have been applied. I know the project and the numbers. I also have a lot of respect for the way I work. Only the system is as I know it, not quite as you understood it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u75	Madam Secretary, the asylum influx peaked in 2019 with 28,000 applications to new heights. Compared to the previous year, this represents an increase of 18%. In three years the number of asylum applications in Belgium increased by as much as 48%. These figures show the result of your asylum policy, which apparently does not control the influx. In addition, Jean-Pierre Luxen, the Director-General of Fedasil, stated at the New Year's reception that 700 additional reception places per month were needed. Belgium must, in this context, I quote: 'either set up a reception network of 40,000 to 50,000 places or apply a distribution plan'. Do you share the analysis of the Director General of Fedasil? How big is the reception network to this day? Do you still want to expand that shelter network? If so, to what capacity? Is there going to be a dispersal plan? What additional measures will you take in addition to the possible extension of the reception network in order to reduce the pressure on the reception network in the short term? What measures will you take to ensure in the long term that the risk of re-exercising the reception network is minimised? What additional measures do you propose to reduce the influx?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u76	Mr Van Langenhove, on 14 January 2020, the reception network had a capacity of 27,052 places spread over 208 centres and 512 LOIs. A distribution plan is certainly not at issue at the moment. According to current forecasts, additional reception places are particularly needed in the short term. However, in 2015 and 2016, we saw that the construction of individual reception places is not fast enough to provide a short-term solution. Fedasil has recently taken measures to limit reception on an individual basis. We are talking about two categories of applicants for abuse of the asylum system. Through an integrated chain approach, I have also sought to strengthen coordination between the various asylum authorities and Fedasil. This link enables us to make the reception network more resilient to changing evolutions typical of this domain. I wish to continue on this line. You can see from the figures how many decisions have been taken by the Commissioner-General. The reinforcement has caused a large acceleration which is currently catching up. This is also the case with the DVZ. Also today, like every Tuesday, I sat with the DVZ. Last month, the DVZ was able to forward some 3000 files to the Commissioner-General. Many more decisions have also been taken by the Commissioner-General. We're catching up. As a result, the lead time of our procedure will be shortened again. The average duration was 18 months on average. Meanwhile, figures have shown that the lead time is longer. The longer lead time has to do with the catching up of the old files. If you make a decision in the old files, they will disappear from the reception network, but the average time spent on files goes up. That's temporary. We're getting rid of that whole backlog. This way we can make decisions faster. The Director-General has, of course, the right to point out that last year Fedasil was difficult to operate because of these lengthy procedures, because of the oversatisfaction that existed at my arrival and because of the influx that continued. That wasn't easy. He's reflected on that. I think this is his right to a reception, to put all his misery on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u77	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I am reassured by a number of things, but not by a number of things. I am glad to hear that a distribution plan, I quote, is certainly not on the agenda. That sounds like music to my ears. Less as music in my ears sounds the big discrepancy between the number of places available and the number of places that Director-General Luxen himself suggests there should be. You also say that there will be a further enlargement in the short term. When I see what chaos there is at present at the Turkish-Greek border, I fear that this short-term may turn into a long-term and even a permanent period. I fear that this crisis, which was previously referred to as an asylum crisis, is becoming a migration crisis. The reception network does not serve this purpose and creates an unsustainable situation. I hope that we can play a preventive role in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u78	Madam Minister, in his New Year speech, Director-General of Fedasil Jean-Pierre Luxen announced that he has established a new platform, consisting of the directors and executives of all partner organisations in the reception sector. This platform is called the G100 by himself and, according to him, makes a new key moment in the history of the agency. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. What do you expect from this new platform? Will this G100 only discuss reception or will it also actively seek and provide solutions to reduce inflow and increase outflow? Can you give an overview of who exactly will be on this platform? Not unimportant to the Members of Parliament, will the reports of this platform be made public?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u79	Mr Van Langenhove, the platform discussed by the Director-General in his New Year speech had met once before. It was an informal exchange of good practice with the directors and executives of all partner organisations in the reception sector. Our biggest partner is Red Cross-Croix Rouge, but there are also Caritas, a number of smaller reception partners, NGOs, and so on. A wide range of themes relevant to reception are on the agenda. It's an exchange of views, a search for best practices. I asked them, but there are no official reports.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u80	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I have one small question. Will you exchange with that body? Will you accept advice and possibly turn it into policy? Is that the point? Has this been discussed in advance or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u81	That's not an official advisory body for me. If they can learn from their best practices and like to sit together because they do the same work, then of course they can do it when they have the time, but for me it is not an official advisory body.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u82	Thank you for your reply and leave the remaining speaking time to more important and acute matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u83	Mr President, Madam Minister, in 2019, 233 refugees arrived in Belgium as part of the resettlement program. Yet in 2018, our country was committed to hosting 1,121. Minister, can you confirm these figures? Since when has the resettlement program been shut down? Who made this decision? Why? When do you intend to resume the programme, provided that it has not been taken over? I understand that he has restarted since the filing of my question. What will happen to those who are supposed to be part of the resettlement programme in Belgium and who have been blocked since 2018? Apart from the dramatic human consequences of the decision, we know that there are also possible financial consequences for our country. What are they? For the time being, Belgium is relocating Syrians as a matter of priority, at the expense of other nationalities, such as refugees from Africa. The latter are usually resettled only after long years. Some have spent nearly 17 years in refugee camps. Who controls the distribution of nationalities under this resettlement programme?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u84	Mr President, Mr Rigot, I have always been in favour of resettlement. During my previous mandate to the Asylum and Migration, I started a structural resettlement programme for our country from 2013. In early 2019, I relaunched the relocation program that had been suspended by my predecessor – whom you know well – in order to fully meet the 2,000 relocation quota, as planned during the 2018-2019 period. It is true that in the end there are only 1,119 arrivals in Belgium. This is due to the sharp increase in the number of asylum applications in 2019 and the high and constant pressure that this increase puts on reception facilities. In doing so, no transfer has been possible since July 2019. Transfers will be resumed as soon as there is a sufficient margin in the host network. On the other hand, there is no financial penalty for not fully meeting our relocation quota. As far as I am concerned, I am fully aware of the importance of resettlement. So I'll arrange the transfers as soon as the situation permits. As part of the European Union's resettlement programme for 2020, I would like to resettle the same number of people as in previous years, i.e. 1,150 people, taking into account the geographical priorities set by the European Union. Belgium has indicated that it will resettle Syrian refugees again in neighbouring countries. However, it is expected that about 40 per cent of the quota, significantly more than in previous years, will be reserved for the resettlement of Congolese refugees and other African countries, some of which have been evacuated from Libya. In this regard, I follow UNHCR's recommendations for greater diversification and call on resettlement countries to align their quotas as closely as possible with resettlement needs at the global level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u85	Minister, that's perfect. Thank you for this clear response and for your commitment to continue this essential resettlement program. We are talking about the most vulnerable people, who are at risk and whose refugee status in Belgium will enable them to integrate and live in our country. I believe that it is essential to continue this Belgian commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u86	Madam Minister, on 15 January, in your reply to my question on Belgium's participation in the Malta agreement, you said that you, together with Commissioner Ylva Johansson, would like to find a European solution and that it will come up with a plan by this summer. It is very important that there should finally be some movement on this issue at European level. You have made it quite clear that you will put the resolution voted in this Chamber next to you, which I deeply regret, but a European distribution mechanism is urgent and necessary. The situation on the Greek islands is still deteriorating, as is the humanitarian situation in the camps. This week the situation at the Turkish-Greek border was added to that. The recent protests at Lesbos clearly show that a different way of working is needed. In September, you refused the Greek Government's request to take over 150 unaccompanied minors. Such an attitude cannot be allowed to continue, given the urgency of the matter. What will you and our country do to make a concrete contribution to the acute relief of pressure on certain European countries and, above all, of the poignant humanitarian situation in some locations? What is the state of play in the efforts to achieve a fair distribution mechanism at European level? Is it also looking at a reform of the Dublin regulation with a view to genuine intra-European solidarity?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u87	I see that the other questioners, Mrs Daems and Mr Rigot, are not present. In 2015, due to the heavy pressure on the asylum system in Greece and Italy, the European Union created a mechanism of relocation. The programme officially ended on 26 September 2017. We cannot really speak of a great success. The mechanism was very heavy and could not be enforced sufficiently. Belgium has nevertheless realised its share of it. We have re-established 1,162 persons under that mechanism; 691 of them came from Greece. At the moment, we cannot talk about European quotas when it comes to the number of asylum seekers that Belgium had to take back from Greece. The hotspots in Greece are indeed overcrowded. This is not only due to the increased influx of asylum seekers, but also to the slow asylum procedures and the low return rates of rejected asylum seekers. So we also see the same symptoms there. The new Greek government has announced reforms and a series of measures to reverse the situation, such as raising patrols at sea, new legislation on asylum procedures, upgrading centres and raising returns to 10,000 people per year from 2020. We have always said that it is necessary to support Greece in the context of the European context. Political, financial, operational and legal initiatives for Greece have always been supported by Belgium because we are in solidarity with the Greeks. There must also be a degree of solidarity within the European Community. For example, I refer to the financial support we have always given to the Greeks, but also the support through Frontex, for which we have seconded people, or at least when I first took up the powers of Asylum and Migration. However, single ad hoc measures cannot solve this problem. I have often said that I want a structural solution with a global approach to European migration policy, because that is the only thing that can help us, European countries. There must be a balance between solidarity with the first-line countries and their responsibility. Each Member State must play its part in relation to its population and its economic capacity. In keeping with these criteria, we are doing more than our share of reception and asylum compared to other Member States. It is not true that the current increased influx is limited only to the countries at the external borders. After all, we also have an increased influx here. Therefore, as you know, I have had to create many additional places to channel the influx of asylum applications correctly. Fedasil speaks of a saturated reception network once the threshold of 94 % of available reception places has been exceeded. In recent months, we have been constantly flirting with that critical border. Therefore, our country cannot now commit itself to further burdening the reception network and I cannot guarantee that I will be able to honour them. The new European Commission has announced that it will present a proposal for a new migration pact at the end of March. Plans for a structural solution to intra-European solidarity and responsibility issues will certainly be part of this. This issue is also inextricably linked to the reform of the Dublin system. The Commissioners responsible have already announced that a solidarity mechanism will be proposed in this context. I have already had contact with the new European Commissioner, Mrs Johansson. She did have a good look at things, but I was the Prime Minister who visited her and I don't know what happened afterwards and how far she stands with her plan. I'll see her tomorrow, though, and I can ask her. I believe that this is the right time for structural reform. The European Commission must now put forward a concrete proposal for a global and structural solution to European migration and asylum policy. We are very much caught by this secondary migration. I would like to show solidarity with the countries at the external borders, but they must also show solidarity with us. Dublin must therefore be restored. I have been here for more than eight years and we have already given the Greeks enormous help. However, they must also learn from this and do the right thing on the ground. We continue to support it, but at some point it must also lead to visible results. After all, the situation in Greece during my visit eight years ago still exists today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u88	Madam Minister, we agree on one point, namely that what is happening now really runs into its limits. I refer to the situation in Greece and the images from, for example, the Moria camp on Lesbos. Eighteen thousand people are in a camp there while the humanitarian situation is dramatic. However, Greece is a Member State of the European Union. This is not about Turkey or Libya, it is about Greece. There are 18,000 people in a camp that is actually only suitable for 4,000 people. That's really outrageous. You say that Greece has slow asylum procedures and that the return is also slow. That's all true, but that's been the case for a long time. In other words, this system whereby we make Dublin transfers to Greece and therefore give that country not only the responsibility to take people in the first line but also to tackle secondary influx and allow people to return is no longer sustainable. If the Greek population revolts on Lesbos, for example, I can even understand that. They too are begging for European solidarity. The Belgian situation is not comparable to what is currently happening in a number of border countries. When I refer to the distribution plan, you always answer immediately with a reference to the Belgian situation, which would also be difficult, partly because our reception network is saturated. We really must try to separate that and simply accept the philosophy of the distribution plan. It is not the case that some countries have to take on the bulk of the burden, that we have to continue in this way and continue to accept everything. A spread is a very fair and fair principle. The fact that this can or cannot be an additional influx for Belgium must be looked at in the operationalization of this distribution, and we must look for good balances. I have also pointed out to you earlier that Malta's agreement includes correction mechanisms, which take into account the influx into other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u89	Mr President, Mr De Vriendt, you must remain serious. All countries are suffering from the corona virus. Who's gonna suspend the first patient's chord, which means that there can't be any more Dublins? Do you know that? Since this week Italy has decided not to accept 'Dublins'. We also have the corona virus in our country. Should we decide not to accept any more 'Dublins'? I am in favour of solidarity. Everyone has to take responsibility. One must also be collegial. It can't always come from us alone. That's my point.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u90	Madam Secretary, the principle of a spreading mechanism is separate from the outbreak of the coronavirus. It is simply a fair principle to deal with asylum and migration within the European Union. Of course, this should be discussed, including in the current context and, among other things, correction mechanisms. However, I cannot understand what one has against the principle. After all, it is a normal principle within the European Union. I'll finish with that structural solution. You have met the European Commissioner. However, try to pull the cart too, so that that solution will also be effective. It can also come from the Council of Ministers rather than from the European Commission. If there can be a debate or an exchange of views tomorrow, that is all the better. Then we can get started right away.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u91	Minister, we know the saturation at the level of collective and individual reception and the reception sites are becoming more and more difficult to find. But the need is now present. Given the current situation of the network, why not start the process developed in 2013, namely a distribution plan? It is a binding measure but it will ensure a balance and solidarity between municipalities and regions on objective criteria of care and will meet the current needs of the network and avoid having men, women and children on the street. Minister, what is your position with respect to this option to activate the allocation plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u92	Mr Rigot, Fedasil will need additional reception places in the short term, given the increasing number of decisions taken by asylum bodies. The need for places in the reception network is expected to decrease gradually. Establishing a mandatory allocation plan is certainly not a short-term solution. Let me remind you that during the asylum crisis in 2015-2016, an appeal had been made to CPAS to create places but that most ILA places were created several months after the peak of asylum applications and these additional places were no longer really needed at that time. The number of ILA seats was then drastically reduced in mid-2018 and I was able to stop this reduction in part. At the end of December, a letter from Mr Franken's office predicted a decrease in ILA seats of almost 2,000 units. I saved over 1,000. The introduction of a mandatory allocation plan would affect many CPAS, especially those who had to close places against their will in 2018. According to the Union des Villes et Communes, it cost them money because they planned to keep these places for a while but they had to abandon them. Given this chaotic context, I understand why CPAS are less likely to create additional spaces. With Fedasil, I will do everything possible to regain the confidence of the local authorities by bringing some stability and convincing them to create additional ILA seats on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u93	Madam Minister, you are targeting the irresponsible choice that was made at the time to close these ILA seats at the speed of lightning, and that was rightly seen as a betrayal by the CPAS who had responded just before to a need for opening places. That was in 2016. They did so on a voluntary basis, even if it was under the threat of a distribution plan. They felt betrayed. You are right to say that trust must be restored, because we will still need ILA seats in CPAS. The reception model is based, in fact, on a shift from collective places to individual places. But in the very short term, we are going to need these individual places, since, as you are very fortunately pointing out, there is again an acceleration in case management. That is to say acceleration in the management of the files says negative decisions, but also positive decisions. The route must then start in principle in local reception initiatives. I can only really encourage you to strengthen this dialogue. If at some point – I hope that this will not be the case – there is a blockage at the level of the CPAS, in the general interest and in the interest of the reception policy as it has been developed, other means will have to be found. I hope the way that can work in the future is the carrot. But this carrot will have to be really important, given the betrayal they suffered some time ago. It wasn't your fault, as you pointed out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u94	Mr Segers, you know the Rules of Procedure: if you ask for figures and numbers, the question must be put in writing. We can't do that through this circuit. The figures and details that you and some of your colleagues are asking are not to be dealt with in an oral reply. Moreover, there is also a need for some research work there, because you sometimes ask for splits that are not provided for in our figures. For European nationals who are released from prison, we have two choices: either we really release them or they are removed to the country of origin. We cannot rule out the possibility that, if they go to their country of origin, they will want to come back at some point. Again, we are always trying to organize a direct removal from prison with no or as short a passage as possible in the closed centre. When Annemie Turtelboom was Minister of Justice and I was responsible for Asylum and Migration, we drew up this cooperation agreement and presented it to all directors of penitentiary institutions, in French and Dutch. That was a win-win situation for us: the people were quickly removed from prison and spent a minimum time in a closed center. We certainly never let them get out of jail without removing them. The capacity in the closed centres is maximised for these sustainable disposals. With regard to the approach of transmigrants, there is work on outreach initiatives, whereby migrants are approached to get to know their travel motives and cooperate with them on residence or return. We are also about to launch a communication campaign with the UK to discourage the breakthrough through Europe for those who do not claim the sustainable solution, because we see that now with the Brexit by road, the train, the bus and even with boats, which are fortunately intercepted, desperate attempts are being made to reach the UK via Belgium. We want to play the ball there for a short time. We really want to discourage those young people from making that journey. They won't get to England, America or Canada, but that's what they've been told. We always ask them not to apply here, but they do not. They want to go to other countries. The number of people who opt for voluntary return is also falling. This is largely due to the reduction of reintegration aid to some countries such as Georgia and Ukraine. This measure could perhaps be reversed in some circumstances, but we should also be afraid of the abuses that this could cause, which could then once again have an effect on suction. We choose not to do this. Rather, we choose to strengthen the voluntary return programme in terms of content and sustainability and to opt for the launch of the outreach approach for transmigrants. The Dutch bed-bath-bread accompaniment focuses on the same target audience of out-of-court asylum seekers and illegal residents. Transmigrants are also people in illegal residence. The common aim of the Belgian and Dutch models is to ensure that the persons who have been processed do not remain illegally in the country and do not end up on the streets, but that a sustainable solution is being worked out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u95	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I am also looking forward to the answer to the written question. For the record, I am not opposed to the forced return of EU citizens, but I am really curious about their effectiveness, especially since we have noticed that the Dutch share has been greatly increased. If you say that the closed centres are full, I wonder if the expulsion of Dutch people works.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u96	The Dutch who are in our closed centres are people who have had problems with public order. Otherwise they will not end up in our closed centres. That's sensitive. Those are people who have violated our public order. Weird people can be in there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u97	Absolutely. I understand that very well, but I still wonder what exactly happens when people cross the border. Are most of them going back or not? As far as voluntary return is concerned, I am curious to see exactly what you mean by strengthening content and sustainability in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u98	So, Mr Segers, you are waiting for the written answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u99	Madam Minister, I submitted this question after a working visit to the closed centres. There we were told that a processed asylum seeker receives 50 euros in cash when he has to leave the centre, for example if he cannot be taken back by the country responsible or if he cannot be repatriated. That would be so legal, it would be imposed to provide somewhere to get around the first few days or to arrange transport. In any case, this is quite incomprehensible to me, since it concerns people who have received shelter and have passed their procedure correctly, but have refused to give effect to it and to return voluntarily, whether or not with a premium. When they are ready for repatriation, they often make a stink, which means that they have to be released from the closed centre. How often do you get cash money when you leave a closed center? Do you have any figures per closed center? I am thinking in particular of transmigrants, who often end up in closed centres in accordance with the revolving door principle, and who receive EUR 50 each time, because in the long run that will be a lucrative business. What do you think of that? Don't you think we should put a sleeve on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u100	Mrs. Van Camp, the story you're quoting isn't really right. We think you've misunderstood. Anyone entering a closed center will be checked if they have any money. A deposit of 50 euros will then be withheld. If one has nothing, nothing can be withheld. It goes without saying that the person in question, if he or she has given the 50 euro guarantee, will receive the money back, both on removal and on release.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u101	Your answer is very clear. The information is different from what I was told. In fact, reference was made to the Royal Decree stating that the first days should be provided for and that the sum of EUR 50 would therefore be given to those people, who are not, for the most part, capital-intensive. But that's wrong information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u102	A bus ticket can be given there if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u103	I think it's not uninteresting to communicate that to the centers as well. After all, our work visit shows that they do apply it in this way. That may be a misinterpretation of the royal decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u104	We'll have that checked out sometime.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u105	Madam Minister, in 2016 Fedasil's staff received a crash course on the detection of radicalisation. This course consisted of a legal part, a contribution from State Security and a presentation on the process of radicalisation, including by deradicalisation officials from Brussels and Vilvoorde, with a focus on prevention. In addition, a hotline for radicalisation was established at Fedasil. At the least signal received by the personnel, it must contact that hotline. Since we are now four years later, I have the following questions. Is the hotline still in place? How many reports have come in since then? Do you have a view of the evolution per month and per center? Which centres do these reports come from, above all? At the time ten full-time employees were assigned to DVZ? Are they still working on that theme today? Do the social assistants and the staff still get that training today? If not, who will receive the training and who will not? What action is being taken on notifications entering the hotline?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u106	Mrs Van Camp, the focal point for radicalisation at Fedasil still exists. Since its establishment in March 2016, Fedasil received a report about 165 residents. The reports are equally divided between the regions north and south. Most of the reports came from collective care, accounting for 134 reports. From the individual reception there were 31 reports. In the start-up phase in 2016, there were more notifications, namely 70. In the following years, this fell to 26 respectively in 2017, 13 in 2018 and 11 in 2019. At Fedasil a full-time expert is employed radicalism. At DVZ, 5,6 full-time equivalents are active on the cell. It's a fairly undermanned service, but that's how I found it when I got back. I don't have a solution for that. I am working hard on the recruitment of additional staff, and I must always make a very strong plea for more recruitment, which is not evident in current cases. Both IF and Budget do not like me coming. I have made the investment in staff mainly to reduce the very long asylum procedures. The reception network staff are still trained by the radicalism expert to identify possible signs of radicalisation and to apply the reporting procedure. This is done during training days accessible to all staff and organised in cooperation with the reception partners. After analysis by the expert on radicalism the reports are passed on to the cell radicalism of DVZ. In accordance with the procedure of the Plan R Working Group, DVZ ensures follow-up with various relevant services such as the State Security and the OCAD. The expert at Fedasil remains at the disposal of the staff of the reception structures to answer any questions and give advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u107	That's obvious, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u108	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Raskin's 55002659C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u109	Mr.President, Minister, we remember that in January 2019 the visagate broke out. Under the authority of your predecessor, Mr. Franken, the management of humanitarian visas has been heavily pinned down and has even been considered a disaster. Humanitarian visas for Belgium were granted under opaque conditions to persons from Syria and Iraq. At the time, the municipal councillor of Malines was said to have received large sums of money in exchange for visas for members of the Assyrian Christian community in Syria or Iraq. The adviser prepared lists of privileged persons for the granting of a humanitarian visa. The case has not yet been decided. Beyond the serious accusations in this case, it is the entire Belgian system of granting humanitarian visas that has been shaken and raises questions. Madam Minister, following the hearings in the Federal Parliament and the investigation that you have commissioned, the dangers associated with the current procedures for granting humanitarian visas have been highlighted: an opaque procedure, the absence of objective criteria, hence the prince's sense of fact. Minister, since your office took over jurisdiction, how many humanitarian visas have been granted? For which nationalities? What criteria have been developed to ensure greater transparency and clarity in the procedure with regard to your discretion in your responsibilities? What is the process to be able to apply for a humanitarian visa for anyone with a connection with Belgium who feels in danger and in need of international protection? Which authority does it grant the humanitarian visa? What authority does it issue? Have all these humanitarian visas been accepted by Fedasil or have they benefited from a code 207 no show? Were any persons placed in a closed centre during the investigation of the proceedings?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u110	Mr Rigot, thank you for your questions. The procedure to be followed by persons applying for authorisation to stay in Belgium, whatever the reason, is transparent. The application must be submitted to the Belgian diplomatic or consular post responsible for the applicant's place of residence, together with a file to enable the Aliens Office to understand and verify the reasons for the visa application. The decision to grant or reject the visa application is, in principle, taken by the Aliens Office, except for the issue of visas under the Belgian resettlement programme. The reasons for obtaining a visa may be multiple. As a result of the "visagate", certain points of attention taken by the Office were communicated in response to numerous oral and/or written questions. In short, the reasons given by the applicant must be personal. A general situation not directly affecting the applicant is not relevant. Particular attention is also paid to articles 3 and 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The links with our country, the life project that can take place there, and the possibility of providing financial cover for the stay, either personally or through a third party, are assessed. In 2019, my administration took 281 positive decisions on a short-stay visa application for humanitarian reasons and 929 positive decisions on a long-stay visa application for the same reason. For the other figures, I would like to ask you a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u111	Madam Minister, I will certainly ask you a written question for the other figures. I fully understand that you need to gather useful information. I feel that we still need more clarity on this procedure and that in the future we will need a transparent and independent procedure from the executive branch. It is Belgium's role to support legal and safe routes of migration because they guarantee the fight against trafficking in human beings and the protection of migrants who are no longer in danger and who will not be trapped, victims of this trafficking. For this to work, these criteria must be as transparent and objective as possible. We will certainly have to consider in the future a competence of the CGRA in this area. The EO could retain its discretionary right, but the CGRA is a body that, in my view, could have this role to play in the future training of humanitarian visas. There is a positive development in the annual reports on visas granted, but we need even more clarity in the future and more details on the grounds for granting or refusing visas. This would allow citizen and parliamentary scrutiny and make trust in a legal system that has been terribly shaken.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u112	Mr.President, Minister, approximately 13,000 transmigrants were arrested in 2018. These are the data we have been able to obtain. Half of them are Eritreans. There is a lack of information as to whether removal measures are effective. This figure is estimated to be 37 per cent higher than in the previous year. Here are the questions we're asking ourselves. Are they transmigrants or persons who have been ordered to leave the territory? It is still different. How many actual arrests are we talking about? If we talk about the arrest of a migrant ten times, the data is different than if we talk about the arrest of ten different migrants. Is that the case, of people arrested ten times and counted ten times, in the figures of the Aliens Office, or of a migrant arrested several times, then counted as a migrant? In addition, where have these people been locked up? How long and on what legal basis? What follow-up has been given to these arrests? Have these persons returned to their countries voluntarily or have they been locked up to pursue the process of forced return? It is known that the problem of transmigrants is currently strong in Belgium. Many cities are concerned, including those with motorways and motorway areas for trucks in their vicinity. How is it possible that half of the transmigrants are of Eritrean origin while this nationality is one of those with a high level of protection in Belgium, being the second nationality to have received a decision on recognition of refugee status in 2018? How do you explain that these transmigrants do not properly apply for international protection? On the one hand, this would allow them to have a chance to reside on Belgian territory and, on the other hand, it would respond to the major and minor difficulties which we find today, inherent in having transmigrants on the street, in difficulty, homeless in the middle of winter. Yet the reception network is available to them, as long as they submit requests for protection. How many of them applied for international protection after arrest? I know that matter is complex. I would hear that some figures would require a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u113	Mr President, Mr Rigot, in 2018, the Aliens Office received 12,848 administrative reports following an administrative arrest by the police of persons who could be considered as transmigrants. In 2019, 8,153 cases were identified, or 4,000 fewer. This number corresponds to the total number of interceptions, it is quite possible that the same person will be apprehended several times. Transmigrants usually cross several transit countries, often with the help of smugglers and via illegal networks. In 2018, 2,380 foreigners were kept in closed centres under the Act of 15 December 1980. In 2019, there were 2,767. Aliens are kept for the purpose of returning either to a Member State of the Union as part of the application of the Dublin rules or to their country of origin. When a person applies for international protection in Belgium, another country is often responsible for processing the application. Among the migrants in transit arrested, those who claim to be of Eritrean origin are the largest group. In Dublin, Eritreans are often distant to the responsible country. This complicates the pursuit of their objective of travelling to the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom, like Belgium, applies the Dublin rules. Transmigrants, who firmly believe in the myth of the promised land, generally do not demand international protection in Belgium. Partners in the field, such as Fedasil, the Office for Foreigners, as well as the police and NGOs, inform these people about their possibilities to apply for international protection and about procedures in Belgium. However, many could be recognized in the State responsible for processing their request. They could end up in the reception network if they made this request. However, Belgium fully implements the Dublin rules. This is what sometimes causes migrants not to apply for international protection at home. It is true that this is complex and it is regrettable that there is no real solution. They're all young men. It is only when they are really sick or have a misery that sometimes they can be persuaded to still apply for asylum to be treated in the network, etc. Otherwise, they are a little stubborn and dream of arriving in Britain. The English tell us that neither in their home, it is not obvious to put them in their system. They are also subject to Dublin regulations. It's sad.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u114	It's really sad. I live on a daily basis because the city of Waremme, of which I am an alderman, is confronted with this problem of transmigrants, with more than 60 of them who, every day, try to reach the Eldorado by climbing in trucks. Since there is no organized structure and they don't hear the message or that message doesn't go well, their dream is still there. We absolutely must work to give good information, including to those who, with their hearts on their hands – and I congratulate them – provide them with humanitarian aid. They must also know in which play we play, what the risks are, what the options are and, above all, whether England, Brexit or not, is not the Eldorado and will never be. It is also necessary to fight in parallel against smugglers. These are the worst because they make them believe in the dream and doubly make these Eritreans the majority but others also, victims of human trafficking. We don't stop hammering him. We'll probably have to see "Dublin" again. "Dublin" cannot be a text behind which all the states of Europe will hide. This text needs to be revised taking into account the reality of European migration and in parallel with a way of acting in solidarity. Belgium cannot take all the misfortune of the world, but all European countries have their role to play. I am pleased to hear your answer on this humanitarian aspect. I didn't doubt it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u115	The cabinet tells me we still have time for one question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u116	Mr President, I have already been contacted twice by the Greek Minister, who absolutely wants to speak to me in preparation for the JAI tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u117	Madam Minister, I refer to the judgments of the Court of Justice in the Diallo case and the X case, where it was considered that the issue of visas for family reunification is not permitted without an assessment of the substance of the cases. Although the Council of State had first considered that the Directive meant that there had to be an implicit approval after the expiry of the deadline, this was not in line with European law in this area. The transposition of that European directive was, in my view, still under your jurisdiction in 2014, wrongly registered in Belgian law. The Foreign Affairs Council referred that case to the European Court of Justice and asked for that review. The European Court is quite clear: every case must be examined on its merits. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Why did you enter this in Belgian law in the first place? Are you planning to fix this as soon as possible? Our group has already tabled a legislative proposal to put this right. Do you support that bill? If not, what is your plan to comply with the judgment of the Court? What has happened since that judgment of the Court of Justice with files whose deadline has expired? Is there still an implicit agreement there, or have you now assessed these cases as it should be, particularly with a substantive investigation before a decision is taken? Can you tell us exactly how many cases it would have been since that ruling in November?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u118	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, I will not be very long because the priority must be the preparation of what the minister has told us, even though I still have a lot of questions to ask. On 21 January, the Court of Auditors issued a report on the process of processing applications for family reunification. The situation is worrying. The Court made four observations. As a result, a significant number of visas are granted due to lack of review and exceeding the deadlines. Residence permits are issued on an ex officio basis. The administration cannot estimate the number of ex officio issuances for non-examination. But the Court of Auditors indicates that this number could be high. The same applies to applications for renewal of residence where many of them are no longer examined. However, in addition to the verification of the general conditions of residence, this stage is currently the only stage of the procedure which provides for the examination of the conditions of integration for Belgian groupings. There is also a lack of follow-up of residence records, etc. Therefore, the Court of Auditors recommends that all visa and residence applications should be processed in a timely manner in order to avoid issuing authorisations due to the delay; to abandon the system of tacit positive decisions on residence in order to comply with good administrative practice. Minister, what are the policies and strategies you intend to pursue to address the issues raised? What is the number of visas and residence permits issued for family reunification in 2019? How many visas were granted on an ex officio basis in 2019? What has been the evolution of the staff of the Aliens Office over the past five years? I know that since you arrived, you have made waves of commitments, but what exactly is going to happen and what will happen in the future? Would it not be useful to collaborate with VDAB, Actiris and Forem on recruitment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u119	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, Mrs Matz, Mr Segers, the principle of automatic allocation in the absence of a decision within the deadline has long been included in the legislation. This concerns the 2007 law of then competent minister Patrick Dewael. I refer in this respect to Article 45 of this Act following the amendment by the Royal Decree of 13 July 1992. This dates back to before my time. The legislation was amended several times, but the principle was retained, even after the June 2018 judgment, still under a government with full powers. In principle, the automatic allocation is only possible if the minimum conditions have been checked, including a family relationship. The law provides that the verification by the municipal administration is to be carried out. There seemed to be no objection to this transposition, since Belgium never failed to do so. I support the bill and the amendment, but I have already stressed that they need legal force and coherence. As far as I am concerned, the text should be reworked in consultation with the experts from the administrations in order to avoid future problems with the Commission. As I said in plenary, I would like to hire additional staff as soon as possible, but that is not easy in day-to-day business. A screening of the files is always done. It is only for cases that do not require further examination that the Aliens Office uses the option of exceeding the time limit. The Aliens Office pays more attention to cases in which there is a suspicion of fraud, where the persons concerned have a criminal record or where the conditions for family reunification are not met or are doubtful. These files are always dealt with in depth. The Department of Foreign Affairs is aware of some files in which the instructions to the municipalities were falsified in order to obtain a residence permit. The municipal administrations were reminded of this practice with the demand to be vigilant. The residence permits issued were withdrawn and the public prosecutor was informed. In the long term, a platform will be set up to enable DVZ and municipal administrations to exchange data in a safer and more traceable way. It will then become easier to detect something by modern means if we suspect a filière.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u120	Madam Secretary, we are certainly prepared to work on this. It is good to hear that you support the proposal and that you agree that a right of residence should no longer be granted automatically after the deadline has expired because the matter always needs to be examined on the substance. We will be happy to work on this with you in order to implement this in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u121	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u122	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. You can of course count on us to turn the DVZ into a public authority ready for the 21st century, which has been going on for some time. We believe, after all, that there are still a lot of steps to be taken, but we are pleased that in the long term there will be a platform with a secure and traceable way of exchanging data. I would have asked how far this future system is going. At what time will that happen? Is that gonna be a long time, or is it almost done?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u123	I cannot take new initiatives now, but I can only make preparations. I don't get money, I don't get people, and I don't get it legally. After all, the government is in ongoing business. We have already prepared a great deal, but we cannot go any further. We can't even come to the Chamber with it. It was also said immediately that such a long period of current cases is an unsustainable situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic123x.u124	The remaining questions will be postponed until the next committee meeting, which is not an April joke. Thank you for being here.
