ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u1	Colleagues, Minister, thank you for being here. We have a lot of work ahead of us this afternoon. We have four topical debates on the demonstration in Brussels on 7 June 2020, on bullying in the police, on violence against the police and, of course, a topical debate on the corona crisis. A large number of questions have been tabled for each topical and urgent debate. I will therefore apply the Rules of Procedure very strictly, which means that I give two minutes to the questioners to ask them. Then I will let the Minister reply, after which there will be two minutes of speaking time for each reply. You will understand that, with four topical debates, I will have to monitor the speaking time allocated somewhat more strictly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u2	Mr President, may I make a comment on the topical and urgent debate? The questions that are being asked today and the issues that are being discussed today will no longer be dealt with in plenary tomorrow. I would really like to draw your attention to it if a Member believes that the questions have a topical value for the plenary debate tomorrow. The questions can now be asked, but the Chamber will then decide in its wisdom that no duplication of debate is possible. I am prepared to hold the debate. I just want to make that point.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u3	Mr Minister, I note that together with you. The Conference of Presidents took place today and referred all topical debates to the Committee on the Interior. That is what we will do today. However, I do know that a number of questions have also been put to Mrs Wilmès, who, of course, are not mentioned here. Let us start the topical debate on the demonstration in Brussels on 7 June 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u4	I understand that Mr Freilich's question No. 55006860C has withdrawn, if I may interpret it that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u5	Mr President, Minister, this Sunday, 7 June, a great demonstration took place in Brussels in order to pay tribute to George Floyd and, in general, to denounce the pervasive racism in our societies. It goes without saying that this noble cause deserves all the manifestations of the world. Nevertheless, the period of health crisis that we are going through was to encourage the mayor of Brussels not to allow this event under such conditions. Indeed, at the time of the National Security Council, when rumours of demonstrations were already born, the Prime Minister claimed that there were a multitude of possibilities to express her support for a cause that was compatible with the period of health crisis. Last Thursday, in plenary, the Prime Minister stated once again, unambiguously: "It seems that more than 5,000 people would intend to mobilize on Sunday. I sincerely hope that the mayor will find, together with the organizers, an alternative to a demonstration that would be contrary to the decisions taken to protect the population from coronavirus and that would put participants at great risk. It is also a matter of respect for the healthcare staff." We all know the following: as many as 10 000 people gathered in a much too narrow area and, as a result of the demonstration, unfortunately the damage and looting of shops took place. A total of 28 police officers were injured and 239 were arrested. Minister, what is your view of the situation? Do you consider it normal that the mayor of Brussels has authorised such an event in this context? On 5 June, two days before the facts, in consultation with the members of the CNS, you issued a ministerial order prohibiting the gathering of more than ten people. What do you say to Brussels Minister Rudi Vervoort, who, while he is a member of the CNS, refers responsibility to the federal authorities? The police unions filed a notice of strike. In your opinion, were all the conditions fulfilled to ensure security and respect for the rules of social distancing? In concrete terms, what was the mechanism in place? Was it properly directed? Finally, what follow-up will be given to these events?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u6	Mr Minister, the events in the United States are burning on our retina. We clearly say no to fascism and discrimination. We have to take our responsibilities and I believe that people want to do the same, but what I saw on Sunday really can't. Many will agree that this gave a very harsh aftertaste. Was this tolerated or allowed? For me, that is actually a matter of fact, it took place and there was no response. In times when a barbecue with ten people cannot continue, in times when grandparents of large families cannot meet their grandchildren, ten thousand people can meet here in Brussels and then commit violence. So, Minister, I have some very specific questions. Why were demonstrations of this magnitude allowed or tolerated while other mass meetings are still prohibited? Will there be an evaluation to determine how to deal with it in the future, in Brussels and in other cities? Was the police in the various cities, especially in Brussels, sufficiently prepared for such meetings? Have any gas fines been awarded for non-compliance with the corona measures? Did you think that was enough? How many protesters were counted and arrested in the different cities and municipalities according to your services? What action will be taken on it? Let us be clear, the signal we are sending against racism and discrimination must not be compromised by the excuse me for the expression 'crapular behaviour' of some people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u7	Mr President, Minister, I am not going back to history. We have seen the obvious disrespect on the spot and in the eyes of all, children and adults, for all the measures that have been decided upon, in particular, by the National Security Council and aimed at combating the spread of the virus. Again, you were able to attend, like us, a grievous spectacle. The videos showed rallies of dozens of people looting shop windows, the properties of operators who have been paralyzed for months in the same way as Belgians who are confined to their homes. Since then, comments have been made. You took part in the meeting of the Prime Minister who, in the meantime, convened the mayor of the city of Brussels, a mayor who gave an authorisation which I call irresponsible. You attended this meeting and, according to Minister-Chair Vervoort, you would have been able to prohibit the event, as we are in a federal phase. Minister, what do you answer to Minister-President Vervoort, who obviously has a good game of trying to move the responsibilities that are probably his first. What authorisations have been granted to the organizers of these gatherings and under what conditions? Who managed the coordination of the event and what police force was planned to supervise it? What initial directives have been communicated to the police by the administrative authorities? What decision-making processes were carried out during the demonstration and then in the face of the overflows that occurred during the rallies? Finally, have there been requests for reinforcements, including from the Federal Reserve, by local police areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u8	First of all, I would like to endorse what Mr Demon has already said. It is indeed incomprehensible what happened last Sunday. Somewhere I can understand people wanting to make their voices heard. Whoever has seen the footage of George Floyd, who is murdered by an American police officer who is knee-deep on his knees, who knows that we have been waiting 20 years for a sound anti-racism plan in Belgium, can also understand that people want to be heard at some point. There are moments, but above all ways to be heard from. There are a lot of people who can't go out today to see their parents or grandparents. There are people in care who work hard and take risks every day in the interests of public health. Then seeing demonstrations taking place with tens of thousands of people coming together and not respecting public health will only mean that the basis for a proper fight against racism is completely undermined. Above all, I want to look forward. I don't want to look at what happened, but most of all I want to know what will happen in the future. We live in a country where, fortunately, freedom of speech also applies. I would like to see the way in which demonstrations can be organised in the future. I am convinced that there are ways of making a voice heard in a creative way. This has already happened in the healthcare sector, where people applaud every day at 8:00 p.m. When it comes to the fight against racism and discrimination, there are alternatives, with many cities arguing in a sound manner with respect for public health. In what way are we going to ensure that this only happens in the future in this way, that there is respect for public health, and preferably also respect for public order and for many traders who have had to close their shops for weeks? After all, they now have to find that their shops have been completely destroyed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u9	Mr President, I am going to skip my introduction because it corresponds to what the previous speakers have already said. Of course, I share the indignation. Allowing and tolerateing last Sunday's manifestation with ten thousand participants is completely irresponsible in these corona times. When the same thing happened in Amsterdam a week earlier, we laughed about it. We did this again with twice as many people and a whole bunch of looting and violence. It is not the first time that a manifestation has gotten out of hand in Brussels. Nor is it the first time that a group of rioters has shown such aggressive behaviour against the police. That is another actua debate that we will be discussing later. In recent years, one violent incident has followed up in Brussels. This time too, the management of the manifestation raises many questions. It is common knowledge in the police that not only peaceful protesters participate in such a manifestation, but there are also troublemakers and hooligans who cause damage and commit violence, and that there are criminals who use the chaos to commit thefts. None of that is new. The police have the necessary experience to deal with such situations, if they were correctly deployed, if they were given the right instructions, if proper risk analyses are made, if there is a clear unity of command from the administrative level to the field. On Sunday, however, there was no sign of that. I therefore have a lot of questions about how the manifestation went, how the organisation of the police, who was involved, whether the correct risk analysis was made, whether the tolerance limits were clearly defined and whether sufficient men had been mobilised. These are all very important questions, but I think they deserve more than a short answer in this committee. I would therefore urge you to use your authority as a supervisory authority of the mayor of Brussels and to have an investigation carried out by the General Inspectorate to provide full clarity on the role and responsibilities of the administrative authorities in what has gone wrong on Sunday. Our citizens and our police are entitled to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u10	Mr President, Minister, this weekend in the major European cities – London, Paris, Berlin – but also at home – Liège, Antwerp, Brussels – thousands of demonstrators paid tribute to George Floyd in solidarity with the Black Lives Matter movement and mobilized against racism in general. As we move towards a deconfination, all those responsible have obviously had to weigh the pros and cons of these gatherings, not only in Brussels, but all over the world. In Brussels, 10 000 people gathered; in Liège, 1 000 and Antwerp, more than 1,400. Most of the participants came masked or benefited from masks distributed by the organizers near the meeting places. Protesters respected barrier actions as much as possible. Exploiting these rallies to turn them into political politics is regrettable in a context of fighting racism. I would prefer to quote Emmanuel André as saying: "If racism did not exist, 10 000 people should not have reminded Brussels that we are all equal. To these people, I ask to strictly respect the barrier gestures for fifteen days and to continue their fight throughout their lives." Unfortunately, it is true, breakers came to taint the Brussels demonstration. Let us not be mistaken: these breakers stigmatize things. Let us not take advantage of this to mislead our debate. These are obviously unacceptable acts, in which the police reacted on instructions from the mayor. Minister, how many arrests took place during these demonstrations? Are they persons already known to the services? Arrests have also taken place outside Brussels, particularly in Antwerp. The law enforcement agencies were well involved in the management of these overburdens. Do you think that this event should not have taken place? If so, I would remind you that the law on the police function gives you, in its article 11, the possibility of replacing you with the mayor or local authorities when the general interest so requires. Did you use this faculty? Have you considered it? Do you think the demonstration should have been banned? If so, why didn't you decide?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u11	Minister, I have another question about the preparation of the demonstration. How was the risk assessed in advance? When did this happen? Did the risk assessment take place in good time? - Any call for backup? How did the contacts between the federal level, the region and the local level go? What has been the role of the National Security Council? What lessons have been learned in the meantime? What does the aftermath look like? Has any agreement been reached on the policy of persecution against the looters? Is there going to be an internal investigation into alleged police violence? I particularly hope that all looters and people who have subsequently done damage will be punished. The crapular behaviour we saw there has nothing to do with the vast majority of the people who took part in the demonstration. That is why I have a great deal of empathy for the indignation about the form of the demonstration. At the same time, I call on everyone to listen to the message of the demonstration. Following the demonstration, there is still no significant signal from the political world that the message of that demonstration has been heard and that action will finally be taken against racism. My final question is addressed to you and to all the Members present here, Minister. In times of a health crisis, this demonstration, with all the associated health risks, has nevertheless brought ten thousand people to life. What would that have been outside of corona times? How many people would have gone out on the street? How loud would the signal have sounded? Especially, what should we finally do with that signal?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u12	Minister, two weeks ago you said that it was the last time we would see such scenes where the police get on the face in Anderlecht, for the umpteenth time. A few days ago, just before the looting in Brussels, you said that it was a sensible decision by the Brussels City Council to tolerate that manifestation. "Concealed" actually means admitting into reality. Over the last few months, together with almost 150,000 compatriots, I have been able to see that you have applied the corona measures very strictly. I witnessed that myself. You also said that you would finally do something about the violence against the police in Brussels. More than that, you literally said it was the last time those people would get their faces knocked on in our capital. Mr Minister, how can it be that in the midst of the corona crisis ten thousand people meet in Brussels and not only pose a threat to public health, but also plunder shops, vandalize property and once again attack the policemen who are at risk of their own lives, beating, humiliating and violently attacking them? How could that be if, as you claim, you had taken responsibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u13	Mr Minister, liberals think that freedom of expression is one of the cornerstones of our society, but in COVID-19 times, when we ask our residents to spend three months in their quarters, in which we ask entrepreneurs to close their cases, with turnover losses and, perhaps, redundancies, in which nurses, nurses and doctors do their best to keep everyone healthy for weeks, it is simply irresponsible, unsafe and primeval to allow meetings such as those last Sunday in Liège, Leuven, Antwerp and Brussels, where it was the worst. Is there going to be an investigation into why the mayors have allowed those events and whether they have remained within the framework of the MB? The fact that you address them personally is a responsibility of yours as Minister of the Interior, but I have two suggestions for you and for Minister De Block. Firstly, if in two, three or four weeks' time there is another outbreak of the epidemic and there are patients present at the hospitals, then I think we should first ask where the person concerned was on 7 June 2020. If they have then been present at one of the demonstrations, I believe that the hospital bill of those patients should be sent directly to the mayors and city authorities concerned. Secondly, the riots were unacceptable. The same applies: the city of Brussels must bear the costs for traders in the rue de Namur and its surroundings, because it is responsible for all those people gathering in the streets of Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u14	Mr President, I am very pleased that I can discuss this with you in committee and draw some conclusions. I see that there is indeed a great consensus in the committee that the Federal Minister for the Interior should and should fully exercise his competence and should not take into account the different consequences of the state reforms, which have been approved by the vast majority of the members of the committee. I take note of that and I will leave for the nuclear cabinet and the government immediately after the sitting and ask that it give me universal authority to act on the ground. Thank you for your support. The reports of the P Committee, the independent monitoring body which depends on Parliament, do not show that there is a structural problem of racism in the police. On the contrary, there were few complaints. In 2017 there were 45 complaints and in 2018 there were 58 complaints out of a total of 50,000 policemen. Most of these complaints were classified as unfounded. I come immediately to the questions about the preparation and progress of the demonstration. At first, the mayor and his police force are responsible. No one will change that, not even a meeting of the Committee on the Interior of the Federal Parliament. The mayor must, in consultation with the organisers, assess the danger and take the necessary measures. In the current circumstances, it must take into account the measures taken by the National Security Council to prevent the further spread of the COVID-19 virus and actually apply it on its territory. It is therefore up to the mayor to find an interpretation, implementation and balance. If so, the provincial law, the law on the police office and the various successive state reforms can assist the governor where necessary; in the last resort, I can also intervene as Minister of the Interior. I repeat the desire of the House to do so immediately and to skip all the legal provisions and powers assigned to all the other bodies in one step. As regards Sunday's demonstration in Brussels, it was ensured that the necessary measures related to social distancing and wearing mouth masks were taken. The organisers have also deployed dozens of stewards to guide the course. The federal police came in reinforcements at the request of the local police, as is always the case in the hierarchy in the fight against such events. Nor have I received from the Prime Minister of the Brussels Region, who, since the sixth state reform, has been jointly approved by a number of parties here, who exercises the powers of the governor in the field of public policy, a signal that problems were expected to occur on behalf of his office or that an initiative was necessary for the assessment and organisation of the demonstration. That is an important fact; we are still living in the rule of law. Among other things, due to the high turnout, the rules on social distancing could not be respected. Also, the requirement to speak silently to avoid the spread of particulates was not followed by the free and individual participants in the demonstration. After that, riots broke out, which, of course, did no good in the fight against racism. Plundering and violence against the police is not helping Black Lives Matter's message, quite the contrary. The perpetrators were identified and prosecuted. I will go into the figures later. I had a meeting with the Prime Minister, in which the Mayor of Brussels was present. It came out that it must be possible to guarantee freedom of expression, without having to come together physically in the period in which we are now living. However, it is primarily up to the mayor and the organisers to create the conditions to respect the prohibition of cooperation and the limit of 20 persons set by the National Security Council on the advice of the GEES. I myself am currently working on an initiative, perhaps through a ministerial letter, following a brief consultation phase with all the authorities concerned, in which I write down general rules for demonstrations and limit the number of participants to the number of participants in public activities laid down in the Ministerial Decision, for the whole territory. In response to your common questions on the course of the event, I would like to remind you that this event was responding to a call to demonstrate. Initiators noted that the response to the call was very important and that a large gathering of people should therefore be expected. The Brussels police, grouped in the Brussels-Ixelles area, decided to opt for dialogue in order to ensure that this gathering takes place in a peaceful, static, time-limited manner, respecting health measures as far as possible. The organizers were advised to opt for Poelaert Square, offering more space, and for a gathering between 2.30 p.m. and 4.30 p.m. The police system was very important, with a few hundred policemen, including horsemen, several watering machines, a helicopter and drones. In addition, mechanisms for the management of arrested persons, judicial follow-up and community patrols have been put in place. From 2:00 p.m., the crowd began to gather in Poelaert Square, with nearly 10,000 people. This gathering took place without incident and in good cooperation with the police. The organizer called the demonstration to dislocate at 4:35 p.m. and the call was followed. At about 5:15 p.m., during the break-up, via Regency Street as planned, some of the participants found themselves in front of a barrier preventing access to the neutral zone in order to protect Parliament, its surroundings and the American embassy. Degradations took place and projectiles were thrown at the police forces deployed behind the dam. Thanks to the good collaboration and constructive contacts throughout the day with the organiser's office, the situation has been defused. However, further incidents were reported from 5.25 p.m. near the intersection between Waterloo Boulevard and Golden Fleece Avenue. It was during the police's reaction to this attack that some shops on the road were ransacked. A further dispersal took place and the police began to make administrative arrests. From 1835 onward, the police regained control of the Ixelles roadway while arrests continued, as incidents were still taking place in the smallest arteries. They were then stopped by patrols that carried out administrative arrests. Some say the anti-racism message should be heard. However, its transmission was quite insane. This committee should be aware of that. There is a huge tension between the freedom of expression and the freedom that some measure themselves to do a number of other things that I completely condemn. I will take all measures and also implement them if the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration allows me to do so. That's what we're gonna have to look each other in the eye for. The calm returned at around 9:00 p.m. and the police continued patrolling to secure the surrounding area. No further incidents were identified. The police have begun to make emergency findings and repairs under the protection of the patrol device. The costed balance sheet is as follows. Ten thousand people participated in the demonstration. Fifteen shops were looted in the territory of Brussels City. Eighteen shops were vandalized in Ixelles. Thirty-two police officers were injured slightly and more seriously, but without hospitalization. Fifteen police vehicles were damaged. Mr President, there were also questions about the figures for complaints about racism in the police services. From April 2017 to December 2017, the Permanent Supervisory Committee of the Police Services received 99 complaints concerning some form of discrimination in the broad sense. This is about discrimination based on colour and origin, but also on faith, gender and a number of other matters. Only on the basis of racism, the Standing Committee P received 45 complaints from April 2017 to December 2017 and in 2018 it received 58 complaints from the P Committee out of a total of 2,965 complaints. A total of 219 judicial investigations carried out by the Office of Surveys of the Standing Committee P have been the subject of charges against police officers in 11 investigations. Since 2017 until 2019, the General Inspection of the Federal Police and Local Police has dealt with a total of 19 cases of racism charged to police officers. There was a reference to the impact of the demonstrations in other Belgian cities and their possible consequences and punishment. The Ostend police zone was sufficiently prepared. By the way, I have seen that some or some Members were very active. There were between 200 and 250 protesters on a large area and therefore no gas fines were handed out. No one was arrested and there were no incidents. None of the four events were allowed for the Ghent police zone. The organizers said they would continue to do so. The events were calm and disciplined, so that the police should not proceed to administrative and/or judicial arrests. For three of the four events where there were actual manifestants in Ghent, a total of six gas fines have been drawn up on the basis of the municipal regulation. In Antwerp, the demonstrations were not allowed either, and this was also clearly communicated to the organisers. The organisers did not comply with that ban and were outlawed. On Sunday, 120 people were arrested. They'll all get a gas ticket. As for the rest of the country, peaceful demonstrations had taken place in several places in Belgium in the days before, without any major incident to be deplored. Demonstrations took place in Leuven, Liège and Courtrai, while a static action took place in Bruges. In the province of Hainaut, there are no actual demonstrations. None of these gatherings had been initially neither authorized nor tolerated by the authorities. From the information I was able to obtain, only one arrest would have taken place at these gatherings in Bruges. Finally, I received your instigation and instigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u15	Minister, thank you for your clear answer. The Prime Minister has been clear about the rules to be followed on two occasions. The ministerial decree you took two days before this fiasco is simply incontrovertible. It is therefore indecent and false on the part of both the mayor of the city of Brussels Philippe Close, and the Brussels minister-president Rudi Vervoort, to reject an alleged fault on the federal. But, of course, it is easier to run away from his responsibilities. I would remind you that the cause was noble, but there was a need to respect the rules and, failing that, what was not done in Brussels but in Ghent, Liège, Antwerp, Ostend, in peace. And it's serious! My thoughts, minister, go to the wounded police officers who are still wondering what situation they were put in. My thoughts also go to these dozens of people, motorists, traders, affected by degradation. Unfortunately, these slippages are not a first in Brussels. The Brussels people are tired of their city being the scene of deplorable events managed with amateurism. And, contrary to what some representatives of the PS dare to claim, denouncing these flaws is the democratic debate. It's not racism. These abject accusations from the PS, allow me to denounce them loud and clear!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think there's still a difference. The mayors of cities such as Ghent, Antwerp, Ostend, Bruges and Liège react with some indignation. However, the Mayor of Brussels, Mr Close, reacted in a way similar to after the riots at the World Championships qualification in 2017 or the riots in Anderlecht. Keep defending that! This time, Mr. Close was summoned to Prime Minister Wilmès and to you. Until then, he's defended it from the manifestation. You say that you will put the question to the nuclear cabinet as to whether, as Minister for the Interior, you might be able to follow some of the mayors more closely. Well, I think you can start with the mayor of Brussels. You spoke from the bottom of your heart when you said that you will no longer allow cops to be beaten or beaten. However, if you do not find the route in the mayor's office, that problem will persist. That's why I believe you can perform. Once again, let us not forget that the message of racism and discrimination must always be tackled peacefully. That very clear position also takes our party.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u17	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, thank you for the clarifications you provided. Personally, I would have liked you to also be able to deny certain information that our law enforcement forces were banned, for a while at any rate, from controlling the demonstrators; also forbidden to intervene in the face of the window break. It is true that some videos show static policemen in front of broken windows. I wish you could also contradict the fact that police officers were forced to abandon, to abandon a police station that was within the perimeter. I didn't hear anything about it. I believe that clarity should also be given on this point. You've taken stock. It must certainly not be minimized, whether in relation to injured police officers or in relation to ransacked businesses. We need prosecution, we need sanctions, we need firmness to prevent this from happening again. How many times have we not already said that we would want to avoid this happening again? In any case, I count on your firmness and your follow-up to this sixth case of Brussels violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u18	Minister, you regret that certain matters are not or no longer within the competence of the Minister for the Interior. I understand. I have already regretted that in the past, but you do have one competence. Even after the sixth state reform, you have the authority to investigate the administrative government in the city of Brussels through the AIG, or by other means. I would therefore ask you to take action today. Have the AIG investigate the course of the manifestation and incidents last Sunday. You can do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let us stop the confusion between the need for 10,000 people to express themselves and the unacceptable and scandalous behaviour of some offenders who are damaging the message! Do you honestly believe that in PS, we think differently? There is no question of touching our security forces. There is also no question that offenders harm our society, the citizens and the message that most of these citizens wanted to carry. Stop generalizing and stop being the wrong adversary! Let us not fall, please, into this scandalous role! We must raise the debate as politicians. Let us not fall into populism, stigmatization or even, excuse me, for some, in recovery! The mayors have a good back. They have been in the front line since the beginning of this crisis. Why? Because there was a failure at certain times in the federal government. Do I have to remind you that the municipalities – and I am also a municipalist – have ordered and distributed masks because you were unable to do so at the federal level in time? And these masks were consistent! Do I have to remind you that several municipalities have changed their public spaces to allow pedestrians waiting for federal masks to cross? Do I have to remind you of the difficulties faced by our border mayors? The mayors must manage the VOCID-19 on a daily basis with federal decisions that are sometimes recommendations, sometimes orders but orders without follow-up. The recreation must end! The mayors are used to managing major events and many of them, not just the mayors concerned, said that the ban was probably more damaging. If you disagree, minister, I repeat, and you said it yourself, as a last resort, you could ban this demonstration, and you did not. It's easy to fall on a mayor after that, but he took on his responsibilities when no one was ready to do it. I wouldn't have done it either. It's becoming a political circus: it's not me, it's the other. It's a little simple. Shooting an ambulance is easy without a doubt, especially when you're not in the ambulance and you're not responsible for driving it!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your speeches. In this debacle I want to add another element. Without repeating itself, I would like to say that our party also condemns the riots that have taken place. Freedom of expression is important, as everyone here said. However, this should have been discussed in advance. The National Security Council had to be called together, and you and the mayor had to be present. If that had happened, this discussion might never have taken place. Ignorance cannot be invoked, as questions have already been asked in plenary last Thursday about the organisation of a possible demonstration on Sunday. Although some wanted to deny it, it was written in the stars that there would be many participants and without the COOVID-19 pandemic there might have been more people present. Such mass gatherings cannot be defended in the present times. That could have been arranged and agreed in advance. Only through dialogue can solutions be found. Now umbrellas are pulled open and stitches are handed out. People are not served by that. From the discussions you had yesterday with the Prime Minister and with the mayor concerned, I understand that a better dialogue will be organised in future. Let us learn from this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u21	Mr President, since this is a topical debate, I would like to take this opportunity to respond to what has been said, both by the minister and by some of my colleagues. I do believe that we should not mix everything together. On the one hand, there are unacceptable violence committed by some on the margins of the demonstration and well after the demonstration. Any violence is unacceptable, whether it is against police officers or traders who have suffered enough in the context of this crisis. On the other hand, there is this demonstration. I hear about alternatives to this demonstration. What were these alternatives? If these alternatives actually existed, why did the National Security Council not make recommendations to make them possible? I also want to stress that simply banning a demonstration, at a time when people need to cry out their indignation in a peaceful way in relation to what is happening in the United States but also in Belgium, would have created even more frustration and would certainly have fueled the desire to commit violence not because we want to break – there are breakers, it is true – but to shout precisely this indignation. Furthermore, as has been said by my colleagues, the minister had the opportunity to prohibit this event if there was a real risk. I would like to respond to what has been said by some of my colleagues in the MR by speaking to them. I find it very dangerous that your speech really amounts to stigmatizing "amateurism", to use your words, from the Brussels authorities in the context of the management of the demonstrations in Brussels. If there are overflows in Brussels, it is not necessarily because there are Brusselsers there. It's not necessarily because the Brussels authorities didn't do their job either. It is also because people come from elsewhere to break up in Brussels. I would also like you to be aware of this, because, by stigmatizing Brussels every time, what you are doing is the game of Flemish nationalism, which shoots red balls at Brussels every time and accuses Brussels every time of all the evils! The bruxellois are tired of being pointed at!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u22	The people of Brussels are tired of it. I must agree with Mrs Rohonyi. But "the Brussels people are tired of it" does not necessarily have anything to do with the people who come from outside Brussels to do trouble. It has a lot to do with the way in which public order is handled in Brussels. The fight against racism is a noble and important fight, which I have been fighting for a very long time. I must also see that a number of people who are active in this House say that multiculturality is equivalent to multi-crime. I also have to deal with the fact that people who are active in this committee say that I, born and raised in this country, should return to my country, wherever that may be. The fight against racism is therefore a noble fight. But there are moments and there are ways to feed them. The political recovery which I hear from colleagues in the PS may make me even more angry than what I hear from colleagues in the extreme right, against whom I fight against racism every day. We must fight racism in a certain way if we are to maintain the broadest possible support for this fight. We can't do that if we don't fight those rioters together. That is not possible either if we make it clear every time that it is not so bad and that things need to be changed. There's no room for nuance here. The last thing I want to say about this, and I agree with what the Minister has already said, is that we need to know what we are up to and what we want from our Minister for the Interior. If we want mayors no longer to be responsible and not to have to decide and assess the extent to which a demonstration can take place, and in what way that should take place, you have to tell me. I do not believe that this is the direction we want to go together. If it is, I'd be happy to listen. Then I will also argue against it, but not with ten thousand men on the street and not by smashing up stores.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u23	I believe that we can conclude the debate here on Sunday's demonstrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u24	Minister, according to an investigation into well-being at work, one in four police officers had already been sexually harassed by their colleagues. This can range from the potache joke to blackmail, through sexist remarks or humiliation. Another study on the culture of silence in the police shows that, more than elsewhere, victims prefer to remain silent. Especially out of fear of consequences, one in two police officers in the case would remain silent. Minister, this is a particularly serious and worrying situation. A report broadcast on French-language public television recently highlighted this phenomenon. This is reflected in the dramatic, scandalous and traumatic situations for the victims. Such acts are sometimes condemned by the courts, sometimes covered by the hierarchy or even by the police zone concerned. You will agree, such facts are totally unacceptable. The perpetrators of such behaviour must, in any event, be held accountable and cannot go unpunished. Minister, you have already addressed this issue in plenary. On that occasion, you had condemned such acts with the utmost firmness. I hear it well and I'm very happy about it. Similarly, I know that the federal police have been tackling this problem for a long time. Nevertheless, I would like to ask you a few additional questions. First of all, do you corroborate the findings of this report and the studies cited? According to the information available to you, how many cases have been opened for such acts in the last three years? Is there an increase in this phenomenon? In concrete terms, what sanctions are generally applied to the perpetrators of such harassment? Are they, in your opinion, up to the charges? Finally, Mr.Minister, studies show that the situation is often hidden. What measures have been taken to improve the situation? What have been the results? What new arrangements could be made, in the short and medium term, to enable police victims to report such behaviour and ensure proper follow-up of open cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u25	Mr President, I will not go into detail about the reportage and what has happened to the police, but we are pleased that this topical debate is taking place, because the problem is very serious. The reportage showed not only the testimony about disgusting facts, but also that there was an omerta in some zones. However, according to our contacts with the police, the problems are wider than just the areas mentioned in the reportage. There are officers holding the bullies over their heads. According to the reportage, anyone who decides on the issue can expect a transfer or an ungrateful job. Complaints all too often turn out to be nothing, except that the person lodging the complaint has to pay the price. Unfortunately, as we understand it, the problems are not limited to a few areas. We hope that the research will teach us a little more about this. An expert in the reportage talked about the need to continue to evaluate good behavior and morals of the police officers. In 2017, a teacher of police deontology already recommended that, in addition to initial training, provision be made for regular retraining. Do you think that current deontological formation is inadequate? Do you see any benefit in a regular re-evaluation? Are recruits in the training sufficiently armed to learn how to deal with intimidation? Is their verbal and possibly physical resilience strengthened against, for example, sexual harassment? According to the reportage, there is also a culture of silence. What are you providing to break that? For example, is there a hotline specifically aimed at victims of intimidation? Do there exist within the local and federal police coaches who take care of the newly trained recruits? Do you think that steps are needed to properly frame women when they take the first steps in the workplace? In what ways do you provide for the topic to be discussed? Very important: how exactly is the complaint procedure going? Are complaints going directly to the P Committee or are they going through the hands of the zones first? Do you think there are grounds for doubting the objectivity of the complaint procedure? Justice would not make sexual harassment a priority, both in general and with the police. Will you discuss this with your colleague from the Justice Department? What solution do you see for this? Do you think that the saving context is causing problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u26	Minister, how many internal complaints of moral, sexual, racist and LGBTQI-phobe harassment were filed with the federal police in 2017, 2018 and 2019? What is the proportion of women among the complainants? What is the proportion of complaints that have resulted in a sanction of the person complained of? What is the proportion of complaints about a superior? How many mutations have there been for those same years? In what proportion was the transfer of the author of the facts? What tools are available to police areas, mainly small areas that do not always have trained personnel to receive these complaints? What are the resources allocated for the use of external experts to assist the Chiefs of Staff in this regard? Are there "trusted" people in each police area? How can anonymity be guaranteed and thus encourage the victim to report the facts against him/her? When did the federal police prevention action plan come into effect? Has it been evaluated? If so, in what year and by what methodology? How do the Federal Police and the Standing Committee on Local Police read the report of the University of Ghent? What actions are planned to implement the various recommendations? Finally, what actions do you intend to take now to combat harassment within our police?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u27	Mr President, Minister, a report on the RTBF revealed that quite a few agents of the Brussels police are making women's unfriendly, homophobic or racist statements. The reportage focuses only on the Brussels police, but this probably also happens in other corps. We do not want to say here that all the cops in the same bed would be sick. This is not the case, but the culture outlined above needs to be addressed. Victims of intimidation or colleagues who witness such statements do not always want or can not always take action. The procedure for suing harassment is long, difficult and difficult. Many officers are therefore afraid to report the misconduct of some colleagues. Mr Minister, I have the following specific questions. Before you broadcast the report, did you hear any signs of harassment in some corps? Do you think that the existing procedures for dealing with such abuses are sufficient? If not, will you change the procedures? When and how will this possibly happen? Will you take additional measures to combat such abuses even more in the future and to avoid them as much as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u28	Mr President, Minister, I will ask one question and you will be able to answer the other. The situation has already been outlined by many colleagues here, but also last year an external survey with the federal police revealed the same malaise. The P Committee has taken a look at police supervision in our neighbouring countries. With their benchmark, they went looking for new insights and good practices. A number of interesting foreign practices have been outlined, which can provide inspiration. In addition to some easy-to-implement practices, methods are also listed which are less obvious. However, these methods provide inspiration for innovative thinking and pursuit of innovation. Good practices were listed regarding complaint treatment, surveillance investigations, criminal investigations and HR management. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Can you tell me if the allegations of the newspaper article and the RTBF are correct? If so, which one? Can you explain the results of the external survey and list what initiatives have been taken? What methods and practices do you think inspire innovative thinking? Finally, what initiatives were taken this year to improve cooperation with foreign supervisors?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u29	Minister, over the past few weeks, the issue of violence has once again become the headline news with the latest events in Anderlecht, as well as last Sunday's demonstration. On Tuesday, May 26, I was also shocked, like many, by the fact that some police officers are also victims of their own colleagues. The article in question refers to cases of sexual harassment within the police force. As an elected woman, I must express my deepest indignation at this kind of behavior. The most troubling is that there seems to be a culture of silence, which results in one in two victims preferring to remain silent in the event of a policeman's misconduct rather than reporting the facts to his hierarchy. A study was conducted during the pre-2014-2019 legislature and was presented to your predecessor. However, it appears that the number of harassment victims has increased since then. I know that you share my indignation, Minister, and that you will do everything you can to carry out the fight against sexual harassment in the police workplace. Do you have any statistics that confirm what the authors of the study have said in the media about the increase in sexual harassment? Do you think it would be interesting to have a new study carried out in order to find ways to better combat this terrible phenomenon? Could you please let us know what steps you have taken in the past to combat harassment in the police? We must help these victims as soon as possible and change this culture, which is detrimental not only to the police but also to society as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u30	Mrs Gilson, the deadline for asking a question is two minutes according to the Rules of Procedure. Now try to stick to it, please!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u31	Mr Flahaut is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u32	Mr. Chair, Minister, the issue of harassment that we are dealing with today raises the question of possible disciplinary procedures that could result from it. Can you tell us if disciplinary action has already been taken as a result of harassment within the federal police? If not, what has prevented such action? Was it possible to establish a link between aggressive personalities – I am thinking here of police officers who would have had to answer complaints of violence – and acts of harassment? Are specific measures taken with regard to such personalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u33	Mr President, I must tell you that it seems that Mr Flahaut will be joining us soon. Perhaps you could take this information into account and give it the opportunity to ask its question after my intervention? Minister, the Work Well-Being Act on the Prevention of Psychosocial Risks provides mechanisms for the prevention and protection of workers who consider themselves victims of such risks. In concrete terms, has a risk analysis been carried out on the subject within the integrated police? The law has imposed prevention plans for many years. I assume that within your services, concrete actions have already been planned and implemented. What is the assessment? Has there been any improvement in complaints, absenteeism? A new plan was also recently adopted. Could you give us the main lines? What are the most important actions that the police employer, namely you and the Commissioner General, has undertaken to take? With what means? In addition, is the police particularly exposed to psychosocial risks compared to other public services? Has a study been conducted in this regard? Has a comprehensive analysis of these phenomena been carried out by the SPF Employment in charge of the implementation of the Law on Welfare at Work?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u34	Mr President, Minister, in the context of the terrible harassment that was reported a few days ago by the press, and that we are all concerned and shocked by, the question of the training of police officers, and in particular of police officers, in the detection and management of such acts in their working environment, obviously arises. Mr Minister, are specific training courses provided in this regard? If so, are they integrated into basic or on-demand training? In the latter case, how many trainings were provided, and how many police officers? If such training is not yet provided today, could you tell us why? Are you considering setting them up?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u35	Mr President, Minister, when you start your police career, it's to enforce the law, it's to protect your fellow citizens, and certainly not to circumvent the law and harass your colleagues. And yet, the Investigation report on RTBF again highlights structural sexual harassment within the police. Not because the police would be particularly fond of harassment, certainly not, but because there is an omerta that prevents the spread of rotten apples. In this report, young police officers testify to insults, heavy jokes, touching, blackmail, repeated sexual advances. These unacceptable behaviors now affect one in four police officers. This had already been denounced by the CSC last December, which called for strong action by federal police officials. Measures are needed in view of the physical, psychological, behavioural, professional and economic consequences of these acts of harassment. Of course, any victim can, in any case in theory, lodge a complaint: to his superior, his union, the control of well-being at work, or to the courts which are also known to be overloaded with work and the lack of means of responding to it. Except that according to a study on the culture of silence in the police, one in two police officers prefers to remain silent rather than report one of his colleagues to his hierarchy. At issue: fear of reprisals, but also the difficulty of supporting his complaint with evidence. Minister, what concrete measures are being put in place today to combat this phenomenon, both in the federal police and in the police areas, but also to better support workers on their return to work after a long absence from work as a result of harassment? What about prevention counsellors, psychological help cells? Could not an outpatient psychological and legal aid unit be set up specifically to analyse the situation within each police area? Have you also worked with the Minister of Justice to make judges aware of the seriousness of the harassment? Has Committee P received any incidents of harassment in recent years and if so, how many? What follow-up has been given to these facts? Finally, have the mayors been made aware of this problem, especially when they act as chief of police?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u36	Colleagues, you asked a variety of questions about the issue of sexual harassment in the police. I will give you a comprehensive answer covering all the questions asked. First of all, let me make it clear that any form of discrimination, racism or disrespectful or derogatory behaviour towards citizens or colleagues must be excluded within any organisation and certainly within the police organisation. But I would also like to point out that the problem raised can certainly not be generalized to the entire police organization. The problem of abusive behaviour, whatever it may be, leaves no one indifferent and is the subject of a wide-ranging societal debate. Unnecessary and abusive behaviour has no place in the workplace, in the private sector, in the public sector or in intimate or friendly relationships. It is not clear whether the RTBF report denounces facts that occur frequently or denounces disrespectful behaviour on the part of some individuals. My indignation was deep. The context in which the phenomenon of sexual harassment has its roots is a matter of general concern within society. It manifests itself in all layers, institutions and social organizations of our country, but also beyond our national borders. This type of behaviour, however, remains absolutely unacceptable. The various testimonies presented in the report are both shocking and upsetting, but we must always keep from drawing general conclusions. Further analysis is needed to clearly identify the problem and to formulate appropriate conclusions. Given the mission, vision and values of the integrated police, in which many staff rely on the prevention of disrespectful language, attitudes and behaviour, I hope that sexual harassment is not a structural problem. All the services concerned, whether they are persons of trust, internal control, the General Inspectorate, the P Committee or the disciplinary authorities, must, each at their own level, take their responsibilities to heart, provided that they are aware of the above facts, in particular in order to ensure the well-being of the victims and their entourage and the dignity of the police function. The objective reality is that, with regard to "sexual harassment", the results of the risk analysis "psychosocial aspects", carried out in 2018, clearly indicate that the figures for the federal police are hardly or not at all different from those of any other Belgian employee. That's a fact. However, the same survey indicated that, if only the women interviewed were taken into account, responses to sexual harassment would be twice as frequent as in the comparative study used. The same survey clearly shows that the federal police perform better than in the comparative study cited in terms of victim assistance. The figures also show that the number of "formal psychosocial interventions" on sexual harassment within the Federal Police, or 15,000 employees, remains limited. The figures show that there have been only two formal complaints procedures in the last three years. Irrespective of all these objective findings, there is, of course, a need to pay constant attention to the above-mentioned problem. This often manifests itself by anodizing remarks or by inappropriate behaviour or gestures towards mainly female colleagues present in the field. This ongoing attention is reflected in five main areas: 1. the application of the legislative and regulatory framework; 2. a clear strategic vision; 3. visible monitoring and adjustment; 4. Recognizable and visible structures and procedures; [[5. preventive and corrective actions.]] The Welfare Act, the Welfare Code, the Code of Ethics, the status of police personnel and their implementing orders serve as guides and are supplemented by a set of monitoring instruments. In terms of strategic vision, the Commissioner General's mission letter provides clear direction and vision in the area of well-being and security. These areas are an integral part of the culture and functioning of the federal police. This mission letter constitutes, as such, the basis of the entire organisation up to the level of evaluation of each staff member. The visibility of monitoring and adjustment results from the monitoring of the implementation of the Commissioner General's mission letter and the follow-up of the annual "Well-being" action plan within the framework of the overall prevention plan. On the other hand, it also results from the five-year obligation to carry out a risk analysis of psychosocial aspects as part of the development of a comprehensive prevention plan. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the recognizable and visible structures and procedures are reflected in the hierarchical line and the HR services, which are the first contact points for all employees to help and guide them. Within the Fed Pol, the procedures for reporting unwanted behaviour are visible, recognizable and particularly accessible. Staff will be provided with all useful documentation via an internal digital site. All this demonstrates the need for a chain-oriented approach to this issue: from recruitment and selection, follow-up, prevention and awareness raising of staff and the work-based interviews in the context of HR management. This process should be closely monitored through an efficient reporting system and support for victims. The final part for the perpetrators ultimately concerns disciplinary action. An essential part of this is the awareness of the seriousness and impact of sexual transversal behaviour and intimidation. Consideration should also be given to questioning the leadership of certain executives, if necessary. A culture of silence is absolutely detrimental to any organization. Deontology is an essential part of the basic training that every police officer follows. As far as deontological training in the various police schools is concerned, I believe that this is now sufficient as a first acquaintance with the professional values and the topic of future police inspectors. From the start in the police school it is explained to the aspirants of the police that respect for others is a fundamental value. If one feels the victim of unwanted behavior, one can call on a trust service to help give the appropriate follow-up and deal with it appropriately. Such a service is present in every police school. There is, therefore, already a great deal of attention to deontology in basic training. A cluster of 24 study hours deals specifically with police deontology. This includes equality between men and women, non-discrimination and respect between colleagues. Moreover, respect for the deontological standards is a transversal given in all the clusters of basic training. In addition, during basic training, emphasis is placed on assertive communication style and specific infringements, such as harassment or sexism. This ensures that our aspirants are better armed to respond appropriately. In addition, 11,013 staff of the integrated police have already followed the successful training Holocaust, Police and Human Rights in the Dossinkazerne, which also raises issues of racism and disrespectful behaviour. The new training on polarisation within the integrated police is also being evaluated very positively. According to the recommendations of the European Council in the report of the Group of States against Corruption (GRECO) of 2019, this formation is of good quality. Regular courses on deontology, anti-discrimination legislation and diversity are then offered to police officers in the field. More specific training is also offered on deontological themes by certain provincial recognised police schools to address the questions and needs of police areas in their region, e.g. "Pesting at work" or "How to respond to sexually cross-border behaviour." The training of the political leaders, the basic training of the officers and the promotional training of the senior officers largely focus on the management of the staff, with emphasis on the well-being at work. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the last session, one third of the qualified divisional commissioners were women. It is therefore a structural asset for the future. The results of the 2018 welfare survey led – in consultation with the union partners – to a phased approach plan in 2019 that included three cross-cutting themes and a follow-up route. These cross-cutting themes are very concretely focused on leadership, organizational mastery and sexual harassment. The follow-up route referred to in the Well-Being Survey provides an opportunity to discuss the separate results at the management level. It should lead to a sustained approach focused on finding solutions, starting with the results of workshops at this level and support in the awareness-raising process. To do this, both leaders and collaborators are willing to free time and space. The method used allows everyone to become aware of their language and behaviour and, above all, of the consequences or effects of these on others. The results of these workshops give rise to actions which are followed at the level of management and trade union organisations. At present, 50 such sessions have already been conducted and accompanied within the various directorates of the Federal Police. This requires a lot of work, but these sessions are essential. A further 20 sessions will follow. Since 2019, the federal police have launched the RESPECT campaign, in which several themes related to diversity are regularly brought to the attention of staff through poster and awareness campaigns. The following topics were discussed: respect for sexual orientation, disability, age difference, grade/level, sex (H/F), multiculturality and different statutes (operational framework/citizen). The Federal Police has, as provided for in the Welfare Act of 1996, a network of approximately 120 trusted persons spread throughout Belgium. The latter are managed by six prevention counsellors specializing in psychosocial aspects of work. In addition, all members of the integrated police can make use of the procedures for alleged violations of integrity. These members may contact "persons of trust" and "Integrity Services" for questions, signals and denunciations. Operational members can also contact the Standing Committee on Police Services and Calog staff can contact the Federal Mediation Service. I also draw attention to the recently amended P Committee Act. Indeed, since 17 June 2019, the procedure for reporting a suspected breach of integrity within a federal administrative authority by a member of its staff is applicable to integrated police personnel. The powers conferred by this Act on federal mediators are exercised by Committee P when a suspected violation of integrity is denounced by a police officer. Victims of moral and/or sexual harassment may file a complaint on the website of Committee P by means of a complaint form specially designed for this purpose. By letter dated 5 December 2019, the Chairman of the P Committee identified a number of problems related to the application of the Law of 15 September 2013 on the reporting of presumed integrity violations in federal administrative authorities by its staff to the Chamber of Representatives. Under the chairmanship of the FPS Policy and Support, Bureau of Official Ethics, work is under way on the transposition of the EU Directive on the protection of the detectors of alleged integrity violations in Belgian law, the whistleblower scheme. This will shape the internal and external components of the procedure. An interim KB should allow police forces to shape the internal component as well. The editing of the relevant KB is almost complete and the FOD BOSA is leading the work. The internal and external components are part of a larger framework. They relate to each other and complement each other, where there is no confidence in the internal reporting channels or where they do not meet. Interaction between components should ensure alignment. Between 1 April 2017 and December 2019, the P Committee received eight complaints about unwanted sexual behaviour. In 2017, three complaints were lodged, three complaints were lodged in 2018 and two complaints were lodged in 2019. The number of complaints has therefore remained stable over the last three years. With regard to the AIG, I can inform you that the supervisory body received two specific complaints about harassment or unwanted sexual behaviour in 2019 and one complaint in 2020. The minutes relating to those facts have been submitted to the competent public prosecutors. The police stress team provides reception, guidance and psychosocial and emotional follow-up to the staff of the federal police and also to the local police at their request. The stress team is at the disposal of the members of the integrated police 24/7 to assist them. Social services also assist the members of the integrated police and their families in difficult situations. In accordance with the provisions of the law on the disciplinary status of police officers, I, as Minister of Security and Home Affairs, am in some cases alone and in some cases together with the Minister of Justice, the competent disciplinary authority of certain categories of police officers. That is how I, together with my colleague from the Justice Department, am the ordinary and higher discipline of the Directors-General and the Commissioner-General of the Federal Police. I am also the higher discipline of senior officers or police chiefs and local police chiefs. In that context, a case concerning, inter alia, harassment led to the resignation of a Chief Constable in 2016. I still have specific answers for two colleagues, including figures. Mr Rigot and Mr Senesael, with regard to your questions on which you are requesting figures on the training of agents and stress teams, I would ask you to introduce them in the form of a written question, given the quantitative nature of the data requested within a particularly short period of time. Mrs Kitir, as far as the fire department is concerned, I, like you, have been informed through the media of certain practices within the Brussels police and fire department. Like you, I find such behaviour totally unacceptable. I strongly condemn racist and sexist behavior. The employers will take action against this behaviour, in this case the local police and the Brussels-Capital Fire Control and Urgent Medical Assistance Service. [[They must:]] take appropriate measures against their staff. I have asked them to keep me informed of the follow-up given to that behaviour. I will also inform you of this in the same post. I would like to stress once again that harassment, racist statements and derogatory behaviour are punishable against every member of staff and that I am the ultimate responsible for the non-intelligent behaviour of every police officer. If it turns out that staff are victims but also witnesses to such facts, they should use the appropriate disciplinary channels. I can't do that in their place. They have to do it themselves. They may obtain information on this matter from the trusted persons and from the coordinators to whom I have already referred.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer and now give time and space for the replies. However, a member is not obliged to replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am relieved that your administration is paying attention to this situation of gender-based harassment and humiliation of police officers. Yes, it is true, the police do not escape this sad phenomenon of society. Like you, I hope that this is not a more structural problem in this huge police body of 15,000 employees. You say that an investigation shows that victim support is more optimal there than elsewhere in society. You have been quoting two complaints over the last three years, but, Minister, I still have to tell you that many people are unfortunately afraid to file a complaint for fear of being dismissed, becoming doubly victims. I agree with you on the importance of prevention and training. I also encourage you to initiate a new investigation to refine the data and, above all, to prevent a victim of such abject acts from being double victimized, as I said, for having dared to file a complaint. It is the harassers who must be punished, not the other way around. This is all the more important because, as you say, a third of graduates are women, which, I do not hide from you, makes me happy. In terms of gender equality, this is a good step forward. This is important in a society where men and women must strive for parity of responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer. I'm very satisfied with that. However, I am at least as pleased that we are not only here on this issue, but that different parties are expressing their views on this issue. We are also looking forward to the research launched by the P Committee. Then it is up to us to make rapid progress on the recommendations. However, I have a small problem with you saying that it is only a matter of certain cases. The victim has little story if she's an individual case or if she's one of many. Then what's an isolated case? Of course, that's not what the reportage showed. When some bullies get away with this kind of behavior and it is not possible to file a complaint, it is not an individual case but a structural problem. That needs to be addressed down to the roots. There are some bad apples everywhere. However, there is no place for rotten apples within the police, as mentioned in plenary last week, not in terms of sexual harassment and certainly not in terms of racism. I say yes prematurely, but let's wait and see. The reportage aroused some reactions from people who agreed that such things are happening in their zones as well. We really need to stop jammers from ruining the atmosphere. The complaint procedure needs to be much better. There must also be clear limits on the behaviour of some people. You're saying we should take it more seriously. I'm very pleased with that. Preferably one in four would be a victim of harassment. This really needs to be over. Minister, you have plenty of work to do, but you will certainly find our support to think about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u40	While I am glad to see that the police have actually become aware of the problem, I have heard you recite a long inventory of the measures and the findings, but I see little assurance and conviction on your part with regard to a comprehensive and coordinated response on the ground, commensurate with the seriousness of the situation. You have often referred to the report of the RTBF, which referred mainly to the study carried out in Ghent. Nevertheless, the recommendations of the long-term university study date back only to 2019. My group and I urge you to set up a working group at the level of the Office of the Commissioner-General of the Federal Police and the Standing Committee on Local Police (CPPL) to implement the recommendations. I think it is from that point on that that we will get concrete answers, which will be able to echo within the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u41	Minister, your answer was clear and complete. You want to tackle the problem further. Two things are very important to me. First of all, we need to make sure that people who are going through something can come forward. Secondly, let us wait and see the results of the P Committee's study. After that, we can get to work on the opinions immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u42	Mr Minister, thank you for your detailed, detailed and constructed answers, but as my colleague, Mrs Thibaut, says, perhaps they could have shown more empathy and listening. As far as my question is concerned, I understand the time limit for replying to it. I will not fail to translate it into written question. On the broad subject, fortunately, we all agree that we must not generalize or stigmatize our law enforcement forces, which are made up of high-quality men and women in the service of our people. Unfortunately, these behaviours are also generally confined to men, too many men, today, whatever their function, their status, their age, their social condition. Nor should such behaviour be trivialized and certainly not within our police force, which must be exemplary in order not to undermine its image and the necessary confidence we must have in it. You're delivering statistical data. We must not limit ourselves to data from studies because we can be afraid of hierarchy or colleagues. It is also a trauma of being a victim of moral, physical or sexual violence. The victim can also foster a sense of guilt. It is therefore necessary to be careful not to have biased data. These facts must be limited and we must act now. Let us therefore act to put an end to these acts which everyone calls unacceptable and of some other time, will say some; I want to say of a time which should never have existed, in any case of a time which does not have its place in a society which we want to be equal, free, just and which is the one which we all defend today. A case as isolated as it is is a case of too many. Sexual but also moral harassment is also a fact within our police, unfortunately. This is obviously unacceptable. We have to take action to change attitudes. We count on you, Minister, to do so, and we will not fail to do so with you and to follow up on the actions that will be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for reminding us of how unacceptable these acts of harassment are and for insisting on the need to fight them from the root, from the start of recruitment, without having to wait every time for facts to be committed. This is why prevention plans have been implemented alongside risk analyses. Thank you very much for all this work. However, I would like to react on two points. First, when you say that harassment is not structural within the police, is this reflected in the results of the risk analysis conducted in 2018? This would mean that federal police figures do not deviate from what is happening in other areas. I agree here with the request made by my colleague from Ecolo to implement the recommendations and to objectify the phenomenon. We really need to be able to update the figures that were published in 2018. The problem of harassment has recently been highlighted by the RTBF, but we know that it has existed for a long time. The unions have been denouncing him for months or even years. This is not a recent phenomenon. Secondly, it is probably true that sexism is neither structural nor police-specific: it is specific to our society. Awareness-raising work must be carried out in all sectors, including the police. And as far as the figures are concerned, we must be able to put them in parallel with the feelings of the police and the police. We can make the numbers say everything and anything. And we can't do without the expression of the ill-being of the police and the police. From the moment they feel unease in the exercise of their duties, they will not be able to properly prescribe them, to carry them out and thus to ensure the safety of our fellow citizens. As far as Committee P is concerned, I understand that only eight complaints have been reported to it in the last three years and that, therefore, the number of complaints would have remained stable. I think we cannot be satisfied with these figures, which correspond to the tip of the iceberg. Because, today, one in two police officers dare not file a complaint against one of his colleagues. That is why this awareness-raising work needs to be continued. I thank you once again for the work that has already been done, while insisting on continuing our efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u44	Mr Minister, after our debate with your colleague Geens in plenary on 28 May, I thought that the issues in this topical debate would fall. However, the answer you had given to your colleague in the Department of Justice remained very general with respect to my questions. So I hope you can bring more complete light today. I thus raised the question of the resources in terms of men and budgets allocated to the police, referring to the KUL standard - now out of date - which provides for the supervision of a neighbourhood agent for every 4,000 inhabitants. Therefore, Minister, do you intend to propose a revision of this standard, which clearly endangers police officers in the field?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u45	Mr President, Minister, I also thought that the debate would end. It is not bad that the debate is taking place because it is still a relevant issue and, unfortunately, we have to talk about it a little too often. This weekend has shown once again that violence against the police is too common and that the work of a police officer is anything but simple, especially in order to work in violent circumstances. The images are very telling. Roadstones and even traffic lights are thrown at police officers. A police officer gets kicked in the face by a few young people. However, there are also images that we do not get, especially images of spoils that police officers have to endure very often, often by certain young people in certain neighbourhoods. It is about young people who have problems with public order and their relationship with the police is not good either. I was therefore particularly curious to hear whether there have been discussions with, in this case, the mayor of Anderlecht, to see to what extent it can be ensured that the small group of young people who regularly cause problems and apparently have no respect for police officers can be dealt with in one way or another. In a broader context, we will also have to look at how we can restore the relationship between police officers and citizens, especially in certain neighbourhoods. There is clearly a very great lack of respect and understanding for each other. We will have to work on this in a broader context in the coming years. I hope that Parliament will have room for this in the coming weeks and months. However, I am particularly interested in the answer to the question as to whether the local authorities and therefore the mayors concerned have the same understanding of the problem at the moment. Do they realise that it is time to take action against this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u46	Minister, violence was again committed against the police this weekend. My question is not a follow-up to this violence. It referred to other violence against police officers in May in Anderlecht. This shows how recurrent such violence is and deserves the topical debate we are leading. So I'm very happy. I would like to return to the events in Anderlecht. As a result, the CGSP requested that additional resources be made available for the development of the community policing system, as well as for the revision of the KUL standard, which has been obsolete and criticized for several years. It was mentioned by one of my colleagues earlier. This was followed by a consultation with the mayor of Anderlecht and the chief of corps of the Brussels-Midi police zone. During this consultation, you would have responded positively to a request for reinforcements in favour of the same police zone. If this positive decision is to be welcomed, it cannot make us forget the need to support all the police areas of the country in their work, as well as the need to protect all our police officers from this unacceptable violence; we will never say enough. Mr Minister, can you therefore let us know whether all the perpetrators of the violence that was committed in both Anderlecht and Brussels or Antwerp this Sunday have been identified and questioned? I believe that information on this subject has been provided in the context of the current affairs debate which we had earlier, in any case as far as Anderlecht is concerned. What concrete measures will be taken to promote the community work of neighbourhood workers? Are you in favour of a revision of the KUL standard? We need an answer on this. How are incidents of violence against police officers recorded today and what conclusions do you draw? Pending the new Criminal Code, which should provide for heavy penalties for acts of violence against law enforcement officials, how is the principle of zero tolerance reflected today? What are you doing in the implementation of the resolution to assess and strengthen the measures taken to combat violence against members of the police services that was adopted by the Chamber on 28 November 2019? What concrete measures have been taken to ensure the protection of all our police officers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u47	On May 20, 2020, we all witnessed incredibly cowardly violence against our Brussels police during an intervention in Anderlecht. Even though they suffered injuries like a broken nose or a concussion, they persisted. Such facts call for a very strong response from the Minister of the Interior and fortunately there was. On 21 May 2020, you said very firmly during the VTM News that this is the last time we will see such violence against police forces. That was a welcome statement, but unfortunately it was again price the day after. Let's face it, it didn't stop. The sad low point was last Sunday's riots during a demonstration against police violence abroad. This will result in violence against our own domestic police. Sometimes it's too crazy for words. As we can see today, we are moving from one topical debate to another. Perhaps it should have been one big debate. It's good that everything is covered. This is a very important issue. You made that harsh statement, which I appreciate very much. So you have a plan. Where's the plan? What's the plan? How do you ensure that the violence against our police forces stops effectively, so that we don't have to go through this anymore? I support Mr Mahdi's question about the Brussels mayors. What's their role? We are told that in certain Brussels districts the police are instructed not to produce pvs in connection with corona or cooperation. We all know what happened a few years ago because of this impunity in Molenbeek, among others. That's why I'm very looking forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u48	Mr President, Minister, as was recalled a few moments ago, Parliament adopted, at the end of 2019, a resolution on the initiative of our colleague, Mrs Matz. The resolution had been adopted in order to invite the Government to take measures to combat violence against the police. It had been initiated on the basis of various investigations, including that of Committee P, which had been involved in these matters for many years. In particular, on 8 June 2018, it published a report which presented an assessment of the problem, an evaluation of existing training modules in this field, an evaluation of the databases of the various incidents of violence identified. I would like to recall here that this census only exists in a structured way since 2014. Six months after the adoption of this beautiful resolution, we are subjected to these images taken in particular in Anderlecht, but also in Brussels, images where police officers are not only being beaten, but also kneel. This situation illustrates the seriousness of certain phenomena in certain neighbourhoods. It's obvious that no one here would ever deny. Minister, as Mr Metsu has said, you have stated that such images must no longer exist. I'm entirely right about you. I would like to recall that measures have already been taken in recent months or in recent years to strengthen sanctions against those who commit assaults against police officers, who know that their profession inherently carries risks, but who do not imagine that they may be at risk of death. Minister, what about the judicial follow-up to the attacks in Anderlecht? What do you think about the judicial follow-up of this type of assault on the police for two years now? Has an evaluation been conducted by your department on assaults against police officers since the issuance of the Attorney General's Circular in October 2017? Do you consider it necessary to review again and again the level of sanctions against perpetrators of violence against police officers and, more generally, the holders of public authority? What progress has been made by your department since last December with regard to the various requests set out in the resolution we voted in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u49	I am currently in the Finance Committee, which deals with provisional appropriations. In this context, I am trying to defend an amendment to take into account pre-pension non-activity (NAPAP) within the federal police. As you can see, police issues are never far away, and it is important that we can defend this amendment in the Finance Committee, because it is part of the demands of the police. With regard to the issue of violence, many colleagues recalled the work of the resolution which was almost unanimously adopted last November and which contained several specific requests. In addition, the presentation referred to all measures taken since 2011 to combat violence against the police. The above-mentioned resolution deals in particular with the evaluation of the measures put in place, the working groups set up and the task forces. It also aimed at organizing a wide-ranging publicity and prevention campaign related to all forms of violence against the security services in general. We are convinced of the beneficial effect of such a campaign. What's the status? On the other hand, it was often pointed out that the fight against violence was not limited to indignation in the event of incidents that could lead to the death of police officers in the performance of their duties. It also involves showing respect throughout the political actions that we can take. In this regard, the budget is a fundamental measure by which we can demonstrate our appreciation by providing the necessary resources for the proper discharge of missions. Therefore, setting an example is also a provision for ad hoc operating and investment costs. I would therefore like to reiterate once again the importance of adequate funding for the federal police, particularly with regard to the issue of violence, and I would like to ask you about the various points included in the resolution, specifically that of advertising campaigns.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u50	Mr President, Minister, I have already been able to question in plenary your colleague from the Department of Justice about this violence against our police officers in intervention after the attacks on our police officers in Anderlecht. I would like to ask you here precisely about the legal guidance and advice that is in place to support the police officer who is the victim of assaults, because while, of course, every effort must be made to prevent such acts, it is also certain that effective follow-up must be ensured, on the one hand, to protect the police officer and, on the other hand, to ensure that the perpetrator can be convicted. This aspect of the prosecution of such acts therefore also concerns the legal defence of the police officer in his area or of the federal police if that is the case. Under the current arrangements, it would appear that, according to local police areas, this support would not be similar for all police officers. Mr Minister, could you tell me, then, how these police victims are taken care of? What is the automatic procedure for providing legal assistance to these police officers? What exactly is it? How is the appointment of a lawyer decided to defend the police officer? What about the establishment of civil parties in the police areas? Finally, are there any differences at this level between police officers in local areas and the federal police?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u51	Mr. Secretary, I'm starting to kick down an open door. Violence against the police is not acceptable under any circumstances or in any context. However, I would like to put it in writing, because colleagues from other groups are working on it by wrongly framing us. Mr Minister, Mr Metsu has just referred to some dates of events. I already questioned you in March about the problem of violence against the police. I would like to pick up a number of aspects of these questions again. In your answer to my question, you referred to a policy which, in addition to severe punishment, also involves sensitisation and prevention. Can you explain what awareness and prevention policy you are pursuing on the issue? It also struck me that there are still problems with the registration of the problem. There is currently no division between violent crimes against federal or local police officers. As long as we do not know exactly what the problem is and where it occurs, it is, of course, very difficult to come up with a decisive policy. There is also no distinction in the forms of violence used. What do you intend to do with the registration? As with all other forms of violence, the willingness of victims to report and aftercare are very important. In March, you referred to the website on violence, which is accessible to every member of the integrated police force, but which was updated at that time. Do you have a visual on the state of play? Is this website sufficient to give the problems it deserves attention, including in the police forces themselves, in order to deal with them as easily as possible and to make them accessible to the people who suffer from them?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u52	Minister, some of my colleagues who are discussing the problem of violence against police officers are talking about small groups of young people in certain neighbourhoods who show no respect for the police. Ladies and gentlemen, let us look at reality. It is not about a small group of young people, it is about a huge part of our population, a part that is still growing as long as our borders are open. Nor is it true that it is only about certain areas, because the police are at risk in every city in Belgium. Everywhere your beloved multiculturality exists, the police people must have eyes on their backs and pay attention to violence against police officers. Is it really about a lack of respect towards the police? That is really the understatement of the year when we see the policemen face day in and day out. They get cobblestones thrown at the head, their service weapons are stolen and they get stairs in the face, resulting in broken bones. In fact, such cases do not only occur to police officers. I'm naming paramedics and firefighters who are being set up. Bus drivers are attacked and wear sting-proof vests nowadays. Ladies and gentlemen, please turn away the blinders of political correctness and look at reality as it is. Only if we dare to name this problem honestly will we be able to solve it and we will be able to ensure that our policemen can return safely to the streets. This is not only for the benefit of the police, our citizens are entitled to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u53	Minister, the situation is clearly outlined. We find that the debate in this committee is coming back more and more often, because such things happen on the ground with increasing regularity. I think there are two things that need to be done. Firstly, the police must have more tools. I am thinking of technology, such as bodycams and cameras with facial recognition on the combi's. In these situations, the agents have all the means to identify people who attack the police as quickly as possible, after which the second hatch can be started. There is also the judicial aspect. Justice must start with the application of fast-track law. Anyone who commits such acts on a Friday must be condemned Friday night or Saturday and punished. That sentence should not mean that the defendant is out for three months, waiting for him to be brought to justice. However, the punishment must be to clean up all the dirt caused and restore everything he's destroyed. The family, partner and friends in the vicinity of the person concerned must be able to see that the person who committed violence against the police the day before is sanctioned for this. Secondly, if someone attacks a policeman or an ambulanceman, I do not think that person is in solidarity with our society, nor should society be in solidarity with that person. Then we should also have the courage to think about withdrawing all the state aid that that person receives, such as children's money and unemployment benefits. How about more resources for the police, Minister, so that she can catch up with the perpetrators more quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like you, I was able to see the images of police officers who were kicked and punched by passers-by during an arrest in Anderlecht. Unfortunately, this was not an isolated incident. JJ insists that there is no excuse or reason for violence against police officers. I therefore strongly condemn these acts of violence. You also saw that I immediately contacted the mayor of Anderlecht and the members of the corps. I also called those who were victims of aggression. I met one of them right away. So I contacted the mayor, the chief of corps and the police officers concerned. The next day, I had a constructive dialogue with all the actors involved. The current situation has been thoroughly analysed. The latter tells us that the problem of illegal residents particularly affects the city of Brussels. They are usually multi-recidivists who suffer loss of income as a result of measures taken to combat VOCID-19, and who after arrest are released quickly. They are mostly so-called Algerians. This is due to the fact that Belgium does not have an extradition treaty with Algeria. They take advantage of such a situation and use it as a pretext. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the short term, the solution to this problem is zero tolerance. Whatever the police may say about that, not everyone agrees. Not everyone agrees with the police, but the solution is zero tolerance. In this respect, I have already promised reinforcement to the Brussels-South police zone. Of course, there should also be work urgently at other levels to strengthen a chain-based approach: strong, broad, proactive and social action, including education, education and civic spirit, followed by reactive action and effective and efficient prosecution and punishment. It's a social problem that the police aren't gonna solve alone. I think we all agree on that. In the medium term, I see only one solution, and that is a single police zone. This must be on the table for me in future government negotiations. Other issues that have subsequently taken place could have been tackled by better means if we had been able to work in such a framework. I repeat, violence against police and law enforcement has no place for me in our society, nor in the administrative culture of our country, nor in any administrative culture of cities and municipalities in this country. The police will continue to find me a reliable partner and I will try to set the path with them to counter these cases. As far as the various questions about figures are concerned, facts of violence against the police can be recorded in the MISI or Incidents Signature Incidents tool. Since 1 August 2017, this registration system provides for the compilation of general statistics published internally by the integrated police on a monthly basis. In addition, MISI also allows police zones to prepare their own statistics on violence against and by police. On the basis of that information, I can inform you that 12,378 facts of violence against the police were registered in 2018; 11,865 facts were registered in 2019 and 3,718 facts until 25 May 2020. The latter is, of course, just a recording of time. These are mainly facts of rebellion, defamation and threats. If we compare the number of registrations of violence against the police in 2018 and 2019, these figures remain fairly stable at national level. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many measures have been put in place to understand the problem of violence against police officers and to ensure the maximum protection of police personnel. In particular, the following concrete measures have been taken to increase the safety of police officers in the field: 1. Since the Royal Decree of 28 September 2017, police officers who have only incapacitating means as weapons (a pepper spray) have the same individual and collective armament as police officers. This adaptation responds to the risks associated with their visibility during the course of their missions and the assistance they are required to bring to police officers. All members of the operational framework of the integrated police services, police officers, police officers and police security officers now have the same individual and collective weapons. It's a big step forward. 2. In 2017, by the Royal Decree of 9 April, the regulations on the regulatory arming of members of the integrated police were also adapted in order to grant the Minister of the Interior the power to authorize police officers, whether they are members of the local police or of the federal police, to hold, carry and transport their service weapon outside hours of service in the event of a real threat to the physical integrity or life of persons or to public security. The Minister of the Interior is in addition to the authorities that were already competent to issue this authorization, namely the chief of corps for the local police and the commissioner general or the director general concerned for the federal police. 3. In 2017 too, by a circular and the GPI 62bis of 19 October 2017, the regulations were adapted in order to allow a new calibre for collective weapons that should allow police officers to benefit from better protection in the exercise of their profession and to respond more effectively to terrorist attacks carried out with heavy weapons. Contracts for the acquisition of these new munitions and related collective weapons are under way. 4. Since these amendments, on March 21, 2018, the legislation on the use of surveillance cameras allows police officers to wear bodycams during patrols or interventions. 5. Finally, a pilot project for the use of the taser was launched at the end of 2017. Many police areas have been included in this pilot project. In addition, from the point of view of training, I am ensuring the continuous improvement of levels, both basic and continuing training, in order to train police officers to detect, understand and manage dangerous or potentially dangerous situations as best they can. Without being exhaustive, I would like to stress, as far as continuing training is concerned, that more attention has been paid to psychosocial skills: conflict management, stress management and negotiation. The objective is better anticipation and assessment of situations of violence. - The development of this type of skills is also addressed during basic training, not only in the modules on violence and stress control but also, for example, in the modules on police ethics and communication. - A specific component "Violences against the police" has also been integrated into the training and can be found under the following four themes: "Employment injuries, qualification and follow-up", "Psychological-medical-social aspects", "Legal supervision: legal assistance, damage to property, civil liability, disaster file", "Well-being and safety at work". In addition to the allocation of resources to increase the safety of police officers in the field and the special attention given to their training, specific tools have been developed to improve the care of police officers who are victims of violence in the performance of their duties: - Any police officer who is a victim of violence can apply to the stress team of the Federal Police for psychological support. The Federal Police Service, consisting of social workers and specialized psychologists, is available 24/7 for integrated police officers in crisis situations and incidents of violence against police officers. Therapeutic and psychosocial follow-up of staff and their families is also provided by the stress team. In this specific context, the specific intervention of this service is covered in GPI 72. Some police areas have their own stress team or peer support system. Psychosocial prevention counsellors are also available to police officers. - A website has been created to provide police officers who are victims of violence with all relevant information, such as good practices, existing case law, forms to be filled in, etc. - A specific section on violence against police officers during an intervention has been added to the ISLP database in order to improve statistics on violence against police officers. This not only makes it possible to produce judicial records but also to use this information to inform prevention counsellors. The Federal Police's internal prevention and protection department analyses accidents or incidents and, on this basis, prepares monthly prevention cards, which draw lessons from the past, in order to avoid the recurrence of the same accidents or incidents. It also conducts risk analyses for operational missions and equipment and infrastructure. An official opinion shall then be submitted to the negotiating committee. Mr President, here is my overall answer. I would also like to respond specifically to Mrs Taquin's questions on legal aid. Dear colleague Taquin, in the event of violence committed against police personnel and constituting a harmful act, they may receive legal assistance in accordance with article 52, paragraph 1, paragraph 3, of the Law on the Police Function (LFP). Once the application has been submitted by the staff member, it shall be examined in the light of the legal conditions by the authority concerned. Where the requirements of Article 52 are met (made in connection with the service, existence of a harmful event, absence of gross or intentional misconduct in the head of the staff member), assistance shall be granted. This legal assistance consists of the appointment of a lawyer whose costs and fees are borne by the authority. Staff members may choose a lawyer of their choice or a lawyer appointed by the authority. The authority shall notify the staff member of the decision to grant his or her legal assistance and shall appoint the designated lawyer. In Circular GPI 72 of 8 February 2013 on legal assistance to police personnel who are victims of violence or false complaints, particular attention is requested, inter alia, from police zone officials to provide the necessary support to personnel who are victims of acts of violence, including by registering as an employer alongside their staff members. I can only agree with this appeal despite the discretionary jurisdiction of the police areas in this matter. In order to encourage all actors to apply uniform legal protection measures and, more specifically, legal aid, the Federal Police Legal Service drafted and distributed on 7 December 2018 the Manual on Litigation and Legal Protection. The purpose of this compendium is to provide the best possible information to case managers and staff on the legal protection they may receive, while clarifying the measures in place and the procedures that relate to them. This document, made available to the entire integrated police force, is a practical guide from which the police areas can draw. I conclude and repeat that violence against the police and the law enforcement services has no place for me in our society and that the police services in me will always find a reliable partner. I want to explore new paths with them to combat the violence against police forces.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u55	Minister, thank you for your explanation. Having said that, I am still a little shocked by the fact that you are linking this potential merger of the Brussels police areas with the problem of violence against the police. I really don't see the relationship between these two files. On the other hand, I repeat, we work in a two-tiered police force. This means we have a zonal police, a local police, and a federal police. Local community police must be able to rely, if necessary, on the federal government. This relates more to the management of public order, for example in the case of demonstrations. However, we know that today this logic is increasingly reversed. We know the state of the federal reserve. It is also known that recruitment within the BAD, for example, does not follow and that the framework is not completed. So you have to walk on two legs and there are things to do. These two pillars require federal collaboration with the areas, but also to do everything possible to ensure that our police officers can work in good material conditions. Not giving the means is putting the police workers at risk.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u56	Minister, I am very pleased with your comprehensive answer. That included the three elements that I believe are important. Firstly, you clarify that this is a broad social problem and more than a police problem. Secondly, you stress that if there are riots and people do not want to respect public order, there should be zero tolerance. Thirdly, this point may be a break in the forthcoming negotiations for me: the merger of the Brussels police zones. This has to do with resources and how these resources are used in Brussels. They can only be used properly if the Brussels police area is more efficient than it is today. I was also very pleased to hear that I was corrected by a colleague in the Chamber. He clarified that the problem is more than just the problems in Anderlecht and is not only caused by a limited club that does not always respect the police. That's right. I am even pleased to hear that there are colleagues who share this view. After all, I thought they were of a different opinion. It is good to hear that there are people, such as Mr Van Langenhove, who apparently see that two years ago during the march against Marrakech there were rioters who had little respect for public order and the police. What they looked like, how old they were or what gender they had, apparently didn't matter then either. In February of this year a number of hooligans, who think they are football supporters, started fighting each other after a match between Antwerp and Club Bruges and then fighting with the police. This makes it clear that a number of people in this society, much more than we would think, have no respect for public order. So I am glad to hear that these colleagues feel the same way. I hope that this will also be reflected in the social media of those colleagues in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u57	Mr Minister, thank you for your reply, once again very detailed, which reflects your willingness to make zero tolerance against this violence effective. We never doubted it. I would also like to look back on the very correct point made by my colleague on the CD&V. When you want to condemn the violence, you have to do it the same way – whoever the perpetrator is. Therefore, zero tolerance must apply to both violent acts against police officers and those they can inflict on citizens. This is essential to their protection. Otherwise, it promotes tensions, which are observed during police interventions and on social networks, where calls to hatred are circulating. This behaviour is simply unacceptable. Therefore, we must be intransigent towards each other. It is important to protect and respect the police because they guarantee our safety. Be aware, Minister, that we will support you as long as you continue to be part of this dynamic. This is all the more necessary because the lack of human and material resources affects all sectors and therefore, in particular, law enforcement. As they are systematically victims of violence, the number of sick leave and disability continues to increase, resulting in a reduction in the number of staff. Action must therefore be taken to protect them as best as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u58	Mr Minister, the previous speeches reminded me a little of the old days when we were shooting ourselves in football squares. I remember that when a police vehicle or a combi happened to pass, even though we did nothing wrong, there was a great deal of respect and awe for our agents and our law enforcement services. You have actually given the right answer, Minister: you are now preaching zero tolerance, and that is the only thing that can help at the moment, especially in Brussels. However, it must also be possible to put it into practice. I therefore hope that you will find allies in the mayors in and around Brussels, because otherwise it is pure will of those local authorities that seem to have some disregard for law and order today. So please continue this zero tolerance and make it known to the local authorities. I hope that you will also touch them, should it become apparent that violence against our police forces will be reported again next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u59	Minister, you closed your speech by saying that you wanted to "look at what is possible to help fight police violence better". There are things to do! Consider improving the monitoring of incidents of violence. I hear you mention the worrying figure of 12,000 facts recorded over a year. You indicate that these are essentially threats. I read that from year to year, the police register about 3,000 minutes only for threats and that it is a part of the iceberg because only the most important threats are recorded. On occasion, I would like to have the details of the figures that you have because I wonder where the other 9,000 are. This monitoring has therefore left a little to be desired for the last two years. Another thing to improve is raising awareness of respect for law enforcement. An awareness-raising campaign was planned, just re-read resolution 2019 (in point 2). To my knowledge, this has not been the case for budgetary reasons. There are things to do: to speed up procedures, to review the anonymization of police officers, etc. There are things to be done within our respective jurisdictions because it is about police protection. We rely on them to protect the population and I think the least we can do is to allow them to count on us to protect them in the exercise of their profession.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u60	Minister, thank you for this information. I hear your answers, but you will understand that there are a number of accounts of differences in treatment that sometimes arise, even though it is obvious that each situation has to be analysed on a case-by-case basis. I hear you are encouraging all administrative authorities to follow these practices of legal aid for police victims. It is important for them and also for combating impunity. Shouldn't it be, rather than inciting, obliging? Do you, however, consider it necessary to amend this procedure? Have detailed analysis and evaluation of this support for police victims been carried out, including by human resources managers in the federal police and local police areas? Have they been communicated at the level of the Standing Committee on Local Police? I have no doubt for a moment that you will be willing to answer these last few questions, because they really matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u61	Like my colleague Pivin, I can only regret that the campaign of advertising or prevention in relation to the security services and respect for them has not been carried out because of lack of means. This is, in any case, the information that has come to us. We would have chosen not to carry out this campaign. I understand very well that you are living with a tight budget and that, necessarily, when there is no new budget or new priority and that, for the past two years, you have been living with the same appropriations, things are complicated. Again, was it not for your colleagues to ask for a supplementary envelope for this essential advertising campaign? The second important point is the same barrel. Excuse me for being a little trivial! There is a need for a justice response for the perpetrators. Currently, too many of them pass through the meshes of the net. Why? Without means, justice cannot pursue them optimally and cannot achieve that zero tolerance that we all want. In other areas, that is also the case. You know that we are also asking you on a permanent basis about these issues. The area of justice is of course not within your jurisdiction, but it is clear that it is also an answer that the police victims and their loved ones are waiting for. They're waiting for a judicial response. In the resolution, the possible increase in sentences was mentioned. We had indicated it extremely broadly in order to reflect on it. However, the issue is not so much to increase sentences, but to apply those that are already present and on which there is already an increase. This is also a response. [[I have heard everything you have put in place as a mechanism, but I think it is high time to evaluate it, to remove some strong measures with those of prevention and advertising and with those of justice that is optimally responsive.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u62	Minister, I am very pleased that you say that in the medium term there is only one possible solution to the Brussels situation, namely the single police area. Flemish Interest has submitted a bill to create that single police zone in Brussels. It has been discussed in this committee and there have been hearings with people on the ground. I am therefore looking forward to the voting behaviour of all the groups in the vote, which is likely to take place next week. There is no need for applause, Mr Van Langenhove. We shall await the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u63	May I first ask the Members present, both on the spot and at home, whether there is a consensus to refer to the questions submitted in writing? So the Minister can give his answer and then there is a little more room to replicate. Everyone's okay with that? I agree with my proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u64	Mr President, I agree with your proposal to give an immediate global answer, since I have already been able to take note of the questions put.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u65	I'm sorry, but the president did not consult all the members on his proposal. I have two very specific questions to ask about violence against women, in preparation for the next ICD, and I am afraid that my answer will be drowned in a more general response.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u66	Dear colleague, it is always possible for you to intervene at the time of the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u67	Dear colleague, you do not have to worry because the first answer I will give is the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u68	Minister, thank you very much!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u69	Mrs Schlitz, I would like to answer your two oral questions about the work and results of the Interministerial Conference (ICM) on Women's Rights. I am not officially part of this ICD, the work of which is under way and the next meeting scheduled for 26 of this month. I will therefore confine myself to policing commitments that fall within my area of competence. Most of these commitments must also be made in cooperation with my colleague the Minister of Justice, Mr Geens. The College of Attorneys General and the Minister of Justice are indeed responsible for the tasks of the judicial police. My role is to provide support to the police in the management of PLIF - personnel (including training), logistics, IT, finance - so that it can carry out its tasks of administrative and judicial police. As in other areas, it is clear that the period of the crisis of the VOCID-19 also highlights the problem of domestic violence and violence between partners: not only does this crisis reveal the problem even more strongly, but it also highlights the functioning of the various services, including the police services, and shows where adaptations are possible, if not desirable. In collaboration with the police, I therefore want to use these levers to make a difference. Although my services are not formally part of the ICD on women's rights, from the outset I have lent my full cooperation to the work. We participated in the consultation, but also reviewed and clarified the demands or expectations of the members of the conference for police services. Through parliamentary questions and motions for resolutions too, we are following the problem closely, particularly during the period of greater risk that we have experienced over the past weeks and months. In this context, I would also like to point out that one of the first directives set out on 27 March 2020 by the task force "Integrated Police VOCID-19" was precisely on assistance to victims, particularly vulnerable target groups. This clearly shows that the police have not waited; on the contrary, they are fully aware of the dangers of domestic violence and violence between partners, as well as the role they must play in contributing to the prevention, protection and follow-up of victims and perpetrators of domestic violence and violence between partners. This specific directive adds to the directives already in force on police functions in general and assistance to victims in particular, as well as to the binding and common directives included in the various letters sent. The GPI 58 mentions the resumption of contact of recent victims of domestic violence as a method of work to be followed in the context of victim assistance. However, this method must be applied in a thoughtful manner, since such intervention in particular cases may reopen old injuries or lead to new tensions. For this reason, it is particularly necessary to call on the professionalism of the persons responsible for victim assistance to judge correctly, on a case-by-case basis, the desirability of a resumption of contact. With regard to your question about a joint directive with my colleague from Justice, it was decided, on the basis of consultation, not to rush and first examine whether the existing directives COL 3-4/2006, revised in 2015, still need to be adapted. This reflection is also under way. Finally, for your question about hotels that have served as shelters and reception centres during periods of confinement, you, like me, have seen that an effective approach in this area is possible only when each actor in the chain (prevention, reaction, follow-up) does what he is committed to doing. This chain approach is therefore also a "collective and shared responsibility". A good example is the provision of hotels during periods of confinement. This decision was not taken at the federal level, but by the various federated entities of Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels, since the return to "usual" shelters on the regular market was no longer possible during periods of confinement. It is therefore up to the federated entities and the various social services organising the reception of victims to ensure the return to a "normal" operation, so that reception in hotels is no longer necessary. I understand that the various federated entities are working on it. Local police services are therefore informed by their partners in the field: social services and the Justice FPS. Ms. Jadin had questioned about alcoholic police during the hours of duty. As she is absent, I propose that my written reply be forwarded to her by my administration, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Colebunders, you had a question about testing and contact tracking in the Bruges police. I see you're working well with Mr. Demon. It's, as it were, interprovincial cooperation. On Saturday, May 23rd, the leadership of the Bruges local police was informed that two policemen and not three policemen who had suddenly fallen ill the day before tested positive for the COVID-19 virus. Where and how they contracted the infection is unknown. It is certainly not in this case because they were attacked or spat. The Chief of Staff sent an e-mail to all employees on Sunday to report this. The report was mainly intended as a repeated warning to all police officers and civil servants to continue to comply with all protection and security measures already announced. It goes without saying that a number of contacts between the two police officers are inevitably covered by the secret of the investigation and cannot therefore be further communicated to third parties. There was good cooperation with all the Bruges services, both the city services and the OCMW. A clinical psychologist and a company psychologist were also called upon, both of whom are part of the staff of the police force. Mr Soors, you asked me a question about the police's residence in the context of the corona crisis. On the basis of the General National Databank as a source of police crime statistics, no figures are available on the number of residents as they are not part of the ANG. Nor do I have any knowledge of the precise incident to which you refer in your question. But I repeat what I said to you earlier in this committee: the inviolability of the home is an essential fundamental right in a rule of law. Police forces must act with common sense and give priority to committed intervention and dialogue. The finality of entering the places provided for in Article 27 of the Police Office Act concerns the search of places to identify persons in danger or to detect the cause of the danger and, where appropriate, to evacuate persons once their cause has been identified. I should like to refer you to my colleague, the Minister for Justice, on the figures for this mainly legal section. Mr Slegers is not present in the sitting, but I have a comprehensive answer to her question on BE-Alert. I propose that the reply be communicated as drafted by my administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u70	Mrs Jadin, Mr Rigot, Mr Thiébaut, Mrs Kitir and Mr Colebunders had questions about the opening of borders. I will answer these questions globally. Border measures have been relaxed in two stages. On Friday, 29 May, the Government decided to allow family visits to and from neighbouring countries. It is again possible to shop in the border area. More fundamental was the decision of the National Security Council of 3 June to lift all existing travel restrictions within the Schengen area as of 15 June as part of the deconfining strategy. I will reserve the reply to Mrs Jadin concerning the deletion and information of the GEES on this subject which has been taken into account in the report. Mr Rigot, the situation at the external borders of the Schengen area to which you referred in your question is much more complex. Discussions between the Commission and the Member States on this matter are still under way. Last Friday, I participated in a European Council of Ministers, which included this item. In order to ensure a uniform policy at the external borders, there is no real choice but to allow the different countries to take similar decisions on travel outside the European Union. In particular, there is a consensus to maintain the current restrictions until at least 1 July and then gradually reopen the borders to countries where the situation is sufficiently secure in terms of public health. Greece, like other countries, has indeed taken a different decision, for the time being, and has drawn up a selective list of countries whose citizens can enter its territory without quarantine. The information I give you is those in my possession at this hour. It is therefore possible that developments will continue this week. My Greek colleague has not informed me of this, but according to the information available to me, in order to take his decision, Greece has based itself on a list from the European Aviation Safety Agency which includes airports in areas with a higher risk of spread of the virus. These airports are therefore not classified in the risk category on the basis of measures taken, but on the basis of the area in which they are located. With regard to the aviation police (LPA), no additional staff have been foreseen for the restart of operations at airports. Since 1 June, the LPA no longer provides reinforcements for national border checkpoints. Within the federal police, therefore LPA included, each employee received a number of fabric masks. In addition, each unit is equipped with surgical masks, a limited number of FFP2 masks, disinfectant gels, a limited number of protective glasses, visors and gloves. These stocks are monitored and reconstituted if they are purchased. The various positions of the LPA have also been equipped with plexiglas screens in order to ensure the protection of staff when performing a number of tasks (contacts with third parties such as hearings or reception). Mr Thiébaut, I have received your questions. As part of this federal emergency planning phase, the decision-making process for measures to control the spread of coronavirus is centralized within the National Security Council, whose composition you know. Travel restrictions at our borders are part of this decision-making process. They are not an end in themselves but are, in fact, a necessary measure to maintain politics in our territory. It is therefore obvious that this type of measure is taken autonomously by our authority, in consultation with our neighbouring countries, the European Commission and the other Member States of the European Union, without having to obtain their agreement on this matter. I can assure you that none of our neighbouring countries has asked or will ask for our agreement when they adapt their measures to the borders. However, the Member States shall carry out continuous consultation and coordination. European Commissioner Johansson also organises quasi-weekly consultation meetings, via videoconference, with her colleagues and the EU's Interior Ministers in order to coordinate the border policies of the Member States. Such meetings were held last week and again this week. With regard specifically to the decision of 29 May, the Government has indeed decided to allow family visits and shopping in neighbouring countries again. This decision was taken because there was a strong demand from the population in this regard, particularly those living in border regions, and because the GEES reports referred to room for manoeuvre. As I have just said, this is a national measure which has an effect only on Belgian territory but which was also in the context of reciprocity as regards, for example, French people unable to travel to Belgian territory. Other countries, including our neighbouring countries, take their own national measures and determine, inter alia, for which purposes a person may or may not enter their territory. This means de facto that family visits were already possible from 1 June in the Netherlands, Germany and Luxembourg but not in France, since its national legislation did not allow and still does not allow it. Every citizen must, when travelling abroad, be well informed about the legislation in force. I can still refer to the comment that the Prime Minister made, as well as myself. We have clearly highlighted this aspect in the communication on the decisions of the National Security Council of 3 June. We have made it clear that citizens should be well informed before going abroad. In addition, my Foreign Affairs colleague ensures that this information is easily accessible by providing correct and up-to-date information for each country through travel notices available on the Foreign Affairs website. Mr Freilich was not present at the meeting, but he had questions about the measures to be respected with regard to personal behaviour at the start of phase 3. I will give that answer in writing. Mrs Kitir is no longer present in the sitting either. She had questions about travel restrictions. I'll deliver the answer to the services. Mr Colebunders, I have already answered your questions about borders, but the measures we and the neighbouring countries have taken are, of course, motivated by national needs. They can clearly differ from one country to another. Schengen allows national measures to be taken if they are in the interests of the country. You know, for example, that there are still border controls in France, except for customs controls, as a result of an increased level of terrorism in France, but quite apart from that. For the rest, I replied. The information I give you is not dated information, but it is clear that in the middle of next week a complete overview will be made of the countries within the Schengen area to which they will be able to go. You know that this will not be the case for Spain before 1 July. Most of the other countries are likely to focus on 15 June. If this were not the case, it would probably be the period between 15 June and 1 July. Finally, I have a question from Mr Vandenput about the impact of corona on recruitment and selection. The Recruitment and Selection Service, after a limited suspension of the selection tests, has remained active and organises itself according to the principles of social distancing. During the lockdown there was a limited decline of candidates who have offered to participate in the selection. The short suspension has allowed the service to organise itself in order to install sanitary measures on the basis of the risk analysis conducted with the trade unions. By the way, the current ministerial decision has always regarded the application as an essential move. As regards the general functioning of police schools, it was decided not to close the schools in order to ensure public safety and health, by analogy with the colleges and universities and on the basis of the advice of the Risk Management Group. The lessons are preferably kept at a distance and therefore online. However, continuing training was suspended and, after analysis of the situation, functional training continued only with respect for the measures to be taken in relation to social discrimination and the demonstration of the operational necessity. Continuing, functional or certified training has been rescheduled since the beginning of June, with respect for sanitary measures. About the promotions/trainings that were mostly completed, i.e. the aspirants who had to complete their training before 1 June, it was decided that all recognized police schools organise the examinations, with respect for the rules on social distancing. In the meantime, the necessary examinations were organized for the training of agent, inspector, security officer and chief inspector, except for the modules for which physical contact is necessary. The planned tenders continued and also took place at those times in April, May and June. The recruitment of 1,400 prospective inspectors is and will continue to be planned for 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u71	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. I give the floor to the questioners for a possible reply. I am using the order of questions tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u72	Minister, thank you for your specific answers. I don't feel like I got anything for the next ICD. I know that it will take place on 28 June and that the agenda is under construction. I am pleased that the guidelines for the recall of victims and witnesses are finally on the way. All initiatives to improve women's safety in this context are good to take. You say we mustn't rush, but I don't think we rushed into this during the crisis. However, I welcome the recent initiatives that have been taken. I will come back to you about the positions you will support at the ICD on 28 June.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u73	Mr Minister, I have just given you a compliment for your comprehensive explanation in the debate on sexual harassment, but now I'm really hungry, and I really don't like that. On the three cases of corona contamination with the Bruges police, you have extensively confirmed to me that they were infected, but fortunately not due to a spit incident or because they were present at a pool barbecue, to name but a few. It doesn't matter much. The point is that these people are infected and how fast the virus can go around in the barracks. This is clearly about contact tracing and how we're going to apply it. Things aren't going the way we expected. I'm sure you'll agree. If we then have to use contact tracing with the police ourselves, I wonder to what extent this is possible and to what extent we will do so. The testing is very important to me to avoid facing the same situation as we were in the Willebroek barracks a few weeks ago. My second question was about the border crossings. At a previous meeting, you also explained this to me, as if the competent police forces had been informed. We put on our naughty shoes and called certain police forces, and this turned out to be wrong. The explanation we received from them was not the same as that of the Security Council. You can't do that for police. I do understand your interpretation of certain agreements in other countries, and I fully agree with the fact that each country applies its own way. But it is clear that our mayors here in Belgium should be given the explanation from you or from your services. If that is where the information is wrong or has not penetrated, then we must ask questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u74	Mr Minister, I have already asked you about this. The reason for asking you again was not a specific incident, but the stories circulating in the media, whether or not with the involvement of media figures, about the police, who had been forced to enter into residence. I am concerned that there are no figures on this and that there is no registration, because, as you yourself say, an admission of residence is a violation of an essential fundamental right, and that deserves better than merely an assessment based on the common sense of a police officer or the examination of a magistrate. If a resident is subsequently challenged and there are no data on it, then it is actually word against word, unless, for example, a citizen could prove material damage. So that remains a focus for me and for you, I hope. Hopefully, the crisis will come to an end and, in the light of the more flexible measures, the less residential areas will be needed. In any case, I would urge you to take part in your future policy in ensuring the protection of that fundamental right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u75	Mr President, I am not very satisfied with the minister's answer to my question on the problem of opening up borders with France. On 30 May, a communication from Minister De Crem was widely distributed in the national press. She announced to the borderers that it would be possible to go to France and all the countries bordering ours to visit their families and do their shopping. In the morning, following this announcement, Belgian citizens crossed the border to go shopping and were arrested by the national gendarmerie asking them what they were doing in France. They said they heard the Minister of the Interior say they could come shopping. The French gendarmes were not aware of this provision. At first, the French and Belgian police authorities believed that there was a certain gap between the announcement and the transmission of information to the actors on the ground. At 2:30 p.m. on Saturday, a copy of the Royal Order signed by Minister De Crem confirming this decision was received. We learned a little later that at the level of the French Minister of the Interior, there was no agreement. There seem to have been Belgians on French territory, who had to pay a fine for non-compliance with the containment measures following this announcement by Minister De Crem, while there was no agreement from the French Minister of the Interior. Minister, I cannot understand your explanation. As with the problem of wearing the mask in the shops, you always send me back to the National Security Council when this is a problem, making it clear to me that there are socialists around the table. Here, however, I do not see the connection with the National Security Council at all. I received a royal decree signed only by you. You confirmed that the Belgians could go shopping and go to their families in France, which was not fair. I can only insurrection against your explanations. I still do not understand what has been a problem in the process. I still do not understand how you have been able to communicate to the press without the consent of your French counterpart.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u76	Does anyone else want to speak on the subject of VOCID-19?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic202x.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put a question to the House. Question No 5, by Mrs Soors: 55006287C and 55006327C Question No 5, by Mr Thiébaut: Question No 5, by Mr Donné, Question No 5, by Mr Donné Question No 5, by Mr Mahdi: Question No 5, by Mrs Rohonyi, Question No 5, by Mrs Rohonyi Question No 5, by Mr Metsu, No 5, by Mr Metsu, No 5 by Mr Metsu, No 5 by Mr Metsu, No 5 by Mr Metsu, No 5 by Mr Metsu, No 5 by Mr Metsu, No 5 by Mr Metsu, No 5 by Mr Metsu, No 5 by Mr Metsu, No 5 by Mr Metsu, No 5 by Mr Metsu, No 5 by Mr Metsu, No 5 by Mr Metsu, No 5 by Mr Metsu, No 5 by Mr Metsu, No 5 by Mr Metsu, No 5 by Mr Metsu, No 5 by Mr Metsu Question No 5, by Mr Pivin, Question No 5, by Mr Pivin Question No 5, by Mrs Taquin, Question No 5, by Mrs Taquin Question No 5, by Mrs Matz, Question No 5, by Mrs Matz Question No 5, by Mr Colebunders: Question No 5, by Mrs Kitir, Question No 5, by Mrs Kitir Question No 5, by Mr Colebunders: 55006633C, 55006647C, 55006643C and 55006648C by Mr Cogolati. 55006840C by Mrs Thibaut, 55006927C by Mrs Rohonyi and 55006935C by Mr Thiébaut, Question No 5, by Mr Rigot, Question No 5, by Mr Rigot Question No 5, by Mr Thiébaut 55006909C and 55006940C Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 55006093C) by Mrs Soors and No 55006093C Mr Friart's 55006533C were converted into written questions.
