ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u1	Madam President, Minister, the State Security has repeatedly warned the Belgian authorities of the risks posed by Chinese espionage in Belgium, in the medical, military and scientific fields, particularly during this crisis of the VOCID-19. As reported by the press and the EU Observer news website, Chinese services have apparently targeted Professor Jean-Luc Gala, known as the mask man by the general public, but also the owner of the Centre for Applied Molecular Technologies (CTMA) in Louvain-La-Neuve, as well as former researcher and professor of KUL and VUB, Martin Zizi. What measures have been put in place by the federal government to protect CTMA and other laboratories against intrusions and attempts at espionage by the Chinese government or other third countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u2	Mr Van Hecke, we use the method we are used to in topical debates. If you have submitted more than one question, you may put your questions together, with a maximum speaking time of four minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u3	Madam President, Minister, it is clear that the corona crisis also affects justice. In the meantime, a temporary solution has been found for many problems. However, this does not appear to be the case for the axle processes in Leuven. Because the assistant room is too small to respect the corona measures, assists are now postponed indefinitely, until after the summer holidays. Of course, this is not a structural solution, all the more so because no one knows how long we will have to follow these measures. I have a number of questions about that. How many assistive processes will be postponed indefinitely? Are there any other courts of assistants that are in a similar situation and have to postpone matters indefinitely? Does a postponement not jeopardise the right to a fair trial for an indefinite period? Do you want to provide an alternative solution, so that the axle processes can still take place? If so, how can that solution exist? If not, why not? For my question No. 55006041C on I+Belgium I refer to the text of the question as I have tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u4	Mrs Laurence Hennuy is not present for her question No. 55005935C. Mr Philippe Pivin is also not present for his question No. 55006062C. Mrs Özlem Özen is not present to put her question No. 55006078C. Mrs. Sophie Thémont apologized. I also do not see Mrs Vanessa Matz in her question. 55006148C. I now give the floor to Mr Segers for his question on the age tests for the NBMVs in times of corona.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u5	Madam President, I can hear the sound of another committee meeting. That way, I can't ask my question. I therefore refer to the question submitted in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u6	Mr Nabil Boukili is not here to put his question. 55006228C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u7	Madam President, like my colleague, I hear some of her unpleasant feedback making it rather complicated. In this context, I will refer to my question as it was sent to the Minister and as it was asked. I'll listen to the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u8	We come to Mrs Gilson's question about the reception of the MENA.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u9	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u10	We have a lot of computer problems today. We can't hear you...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u11	Minister, the European Union, through its Member States, has made the relocation of unaccompanied foreign minors (MENA) a priority political issue. This initiative by some Member States provided for a relocation plan for 1,600 MENA who were staying on Greek islands. Unfortunately, they are minors who find themselves unaccompanied in refugee camps. I am pleased that the Belgian government has decided to welcome 18 minors. Some are under the age of 14 and are therefore very young. It is a commendable gesture of solidarity and commitment. I would like to stress that. Despite the health crisis and the saturation of the reception network, Belgium is making an additional effort. Upon the arrival of minors, special needs must be met. They must be provided with social protection, legal aid or even psychological assistance. In this long administrative and regularization process, the Tutelle Service plays an important role. This service is responsible for contacting the accommodation centres and assigning a guardian to the minor so that a lasting solution can be found for him. It is therefore very important that the guardian be assigned to the minor very quickly. This can obviously have consequences for the smooth running of the care of this unaccompanied minor. Minister, how is the reception of 18 minors envisaged? Will the MENA procedure, provided for by the Act of 12 September 2011, apply to all 18 minors? Given the health crisis we are going through and the urgency in which these 18 minors must be accommodated, can you assure us that the guardians will be appointed within the time limits? Finally, is the Tutelles Service in a position to fully carry out its coordination tasks with the relevant authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u12	Madam President, I begin by answering Mr Cogolati's question about Chinese espionage. With regard to this espionage, I must point out that, for obvious reasons, linked to the very specific nature of intelligence work, the government does not communicate on specific files that fall within the scope of the intelligence services' work. However, I can confirm that the State Security is also working to protect the economic and scientific potential which is also within its competence. If, in the course of its investigations, the Sûreté finds activities which could harm institutions located in Belgium, measures are put in place. They are intended, for example, to raise awareness among entities likely to be affected by harmful manoeuvres. Barrier measures may also be put in place against actors who would endanger Belgium's interests. I come to Mr Van Hecke's question on the postponement of assistance processes. For Brussels, two assists were postponed to September and October 2020. For the Antwerp resort, 13 cases were postponed to September and the successive months. In Ghent, no case has been postponed. In Bergen, an earlier deferred case was dealt with from 11 May. In accordance with the sanitary measures, this matter has gone smoothly. Another matter still needs to be fixed. Five cases were postponed in Liège, which will take place from September. A sixth, less urgent case has been postponed to a date in 2021, which has not yet been determined. An indefinite delay merely means that there is no exact date yet. The fixation then happens in the short term. The College of Attorneys General states that the right to a fair trial is not compromised within a reasonable period of time. Each government has had to comply with the containment measures, which means a temporary force majeure. The seat and the Public Prosecutor's Office are in constant contact with the competent services of the FPS Justice for possible logistical and sanitary measures. I would also like to inform you that Article 115 of the Code of Justice allows the courts of assistants to sit in places other than the province's headquarters, which allows for more appropriate and appropriate conditions to be found for certain cases of assistance. Mr. Aouasti asked me about the practice of Ramadan in prison in the context of the VOCID-19 pandemic. All Belgian prisons are able to serve a late meal during Ramadan, with the exception of Lantin, who does not have sufficient staff during this period of health crisis. I note, however, that, in its communiqué of 15 April, the Belgian Muslim Executive considers that "due to the current reduction of staff in prisons, the distribution of meals to Muslim prisoners will not be ensured at night at the time of the breaking of the fast, as is usually the case in other years. In this context, if detainees encounter difficulties in observing the fast under normal conditions, they may exceptionally break it and postpone it later." Detainees may always receive individual visits from worship counsellors to premises that respect social distancing. These may include speaking rooms, classrooms or other multi-purpose rooms – preferably those located in units where inmates stay, with a view to minimizing movement. In order to continue to guarantee moral and spiritual assistance to detainees during this crisis period, the Belgian Muslim Executive has also activated a free telephone line for those who wish to receive time to listen and support or ask questions to an Islamic imam or adviser. Two 0800 numbers – one for Francophones and the other for Dutch speakers – are also available daily, except on Saturdays, from 10:00 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. All canteens are accessible and able to meet demand. The packages delivered by the Executive are centralized in Brussels. The Directorate-General of Penitentiary Institutions has itself been responsible for their distribution within the institutions according to the needs. The handing over of food parcels to detainees by their families is not permitted. No incidents were reported. Mrs Gabriels, I come to your question about the prison system and the smuggling. There are indeed more reports of drug smuggling by throwing packets over the wall or wire. A few days ago, two packages ended up on the walk of the prison of Dendermonde. Merksplas was also faced with this recently. The inmate who was the recipient of the drugs that ended up in Vorst's prison via a drone is known and placed in addition under arrest mandate by the investigating judge. There is also a disciplinary procedure. The drone, whose sender has not yet been identified, has been impounded and the investigation continues. Such incidents are always investigated internally and the judicial authorities are informed. In order to prevent such events, there is consultation between the various governments, the prison system, the Government of the Buildings, the local authorities and the police. For example, in every prison where the problems arise, the central security and infrastructure department carries out an investigation. Together with the above authorities, it will be decided which infrastructure is needed and which security installations should be installed or expanded. Concretely for the Mechelen prison, where such problems have been arising for several months, a high wire would be placed along the grounds of the walk. The installation of intelligent cameras with motion detection is also on the table. Mr Van Hecke, you had a question about I+Belgium. In doing so, we have arrived at the execution of the sentence and are no longer with the prison system. It is the operational name of the Integrated Conditions Register created by the Law of 5 May 2019. This Act is the subject of the circular No. 03/2020 of the College of Attorneys General. The use of this computer system is mandatory for the police. The Executive Board of Police Information and ICT Resources (DRI) tells me that user IDs for I+Belgium were created for a provisional total of 19,165 local police users and 2,669 federal police users. In the field of roll-out, the last arrondissement of Antwerp, where the full entry into service is currently delayed, including by COOVID-19. The fact that a limited number of I+Belgium police zones have not yet fully integrated into their working procedures does not mean that they are unable to take note of the decisions taken by the judicial authorities in the I+Belgium system. At the beginning of this year, the President of the College of Attorneys General drew my attention to the fact that the Antwerp police strongly insisted on the integration of I+Belgium into their mobile application, Focus. The DRI reports to be fully engaged in the preparation of this integration. The COL 3/2020 indicates that I+Belgium provides a temporary framework, pending the integration of its use into the joint COL 11/2013 circular, which regulates the full flow of information in relation to the different modalities of freedom under conditions. I+Belgium has been connected to the ANG since March 2020. With regard to your fourth question, Mr Van Hecke, I would like to refer you to my answer to question No. 55005742C by Mrs Rohonyi at the committee meeting of 6 May 2020. In summary, the COOVID-19 measures are not subject to individualised conditions related to the probation and therefore require an accompanying task of the justice houses. I now come to Mr Segers' question on unaccompanied minors. Nine age tests have been conducted since the previous committee meeting of 6 May 2020. Priority is currently being given to young people staying in the observation and guidance centres and to young people known in another EU Member State. In addition to my reply at the previous committee meeting, I can tell you that age surveys on young people at the border or in a closed centre must be regarded as urgent. The vulnerable young people can go to Fedasil. These include girls, potential victims of trafficking in human beings, young people under the age of 16 or young people with medical or psychological problems. For the 16- and 17-year-old boys who are not covered by the vulnerable criteria, the Voogdij Service is looking for a different solution. This is always done on the basis of consultation with the issuing authorities. Meanwhile, Fedasil announced that these young people can also be received via the registration centre of the Klein Kastiltje. Medical age studies are also the last means of determining age in Belgium. In the first instance, an interview shall take place, inter alia, asking whether the person concerned has identity documents with him. These elements then determine whether or not to doubt age. If there is any doubt, the programme law of 24 December 2002 requires a doctor to carry out a medical examination in order to demonstrate minority. Psychoaffective tests are not suitable to distinguish between minority and adulthood, as they merely check the maturity of a person, which was also confirmed by the Order of Doctors. Methodical age studies use error margins of up to 2.5 years. The lower limit of the margin of error shall always be used to determine whether someone is older or under 18 years of age. This method is seen internationally as the best method. Studies are being carried out in the various university hospitals, including Leuven and Ghent, to further refine the method of age determination. The Voogdijk Service closely follows these evolutions. There is no scientific study available to me which states that on the basis of conversations it can be decided whether a person is older or under 18 years of age. That is always a very subjective interpretation. The European Asylum Support Office's documents on existing practices in EU countries show that almost all Member States are using the medical age studies and only a few are the psychoactive ones. The current Belgian practice is therefore effective and in line with the legislation and the international recommendation. There's no need to change it. I come to Mrs Gilson's question about the reception of MENA and the relocation of minors from the Greek islands. The Tutelles department has already been contacted by Fedasil in order to organize the arrival of this very vulnerable group of minors. The reception will be taken over by Fedasil and the Communities. They will first be housed in the observation and guidance centres. Then they will be transferred to a reception place adapted to their needs. The Tutelle Service is fully able to carry out its legal tasks, even during the health crisis. He remains available 24 hours a day and takes care of all unaccompanied foreign minors reported in Belgium. He will therefore ensure the appointment of a guardian, upon the arrival of minors in Belgium. The Tutelle Service is not late in this matter. He made designations throughout the health crisis. In total, over 220 designations were registered for March, April and May. As regards the procedure to be initiated, an asylum procedure has, in principle, already been introduced by the minors concerned. Each situation will be assessed by the guardians, and another procedure will be introduced, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u13	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your short answer. I think that we must, especially during this period of VOCID-19, be careful and the government must in particular ensure the security of scientific institutions and laboratories that are at the forefront of the fight against the pandemic, and therefore do everything possible to impede attempts at espionage by foreign governments, and in particular here by the Chinese government, since it would seem that these attempts at espionage are well attested.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for the answers. With regard to the postponement of the aid cases, I see a high figure for the Antwerp resort, namely 13. That is a big difference with the resorts of Ghent, Brussels and Liège. How will we deal with it in concrete terms in the Antwerp resort? You have indicated that one can look for another location and that the law allows it. It is not clear to me how this is going to be done in concrete terms for 13 cases. As far as I+Belgium is concerned, it is striking that the system apparently does not work in Antwerp. You have said that this is not an obstacle, but how does the succession take place? What alternative is used in Antwerp? That too did not really become clear in your reply and I hope to be able to get some more information on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u15	Minister, I am pleased that a serious step forward has been taken in the area of reception. Nor can I get the impression that we have a common concern here. You may also regret what has happened, because the Voogdij Service can play a good role in this. Furthermore, I think you will also be aware that your reply from last time went a little bit crazy. After all, it wouldn't be scientific. This reply also disappoints me somewhat, because I believe that there is more to be done. You use too narrow an interpretation when it comes to what exactly is scientific. In the examples I have quoted, as in Australia, this is indeed a validated method. It seems to me to be simply wrong to say that this would not be scientific. I have also heard you refer to other European practices, but I remain curious whether the Australian model has been investigated. I think it's worth looking at that. There is a good chance that there will be a period of tighter measures and it would be a good idea to be ready at the time. In this sense, this crisis can be an opportunity to put the age test on track and experiment with it. I call on you to get to work on this and look at other countries where it does seem to be working. You have identified the margin of error that exists during the current age test. In other countries this appears to be in line or even lower on the basis of psychoeffective tests. Then why the cold feet to look at that? I don't understand that very well. I hope that steps can be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u16	Madam President, Minister, thank you. My questions were quite specific, as were your answers. I am glad to know that there was no incident in prison, and that with the exception of Lantin prison, everything could be organized at best for everyone according to the different philosophical convictions. I am pleased to hear that this has gone well, because we knew that we were in a situation of tension. Good for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'm so sorry I can't activate my camera. I thank you very much for these answers which are very reassuring regarding the care of these unaccompanied minors by the Tutelle services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u18	Madam President, I should like to give the following information to Mr Van Hecke, subject to reservations. If I am right, the stock of 13 assists in Antwerp is the result of a long-established delay, which was rapidly catching up. This has not so much to do with the corona crisis, but one was thinking about doing a lot of work in these months. Because of the crisis, it didn't work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u20	Minister, despite repeated condemnations by the European Court of Human Rights in our country, and despite clear legal provisions, too often being imprisoned in prison, is unfortunately not news. That is absolutely illegal, but it continues to happen. At the end of 2019, according to the Federal Ombudsman's annual report of that year, 363 interned persons were still in prison. This is even a slight increase compared to 2018. The opening of the forensic psychiatric centers in Ghent and Antwerp in 2014 and 2017 is therefore not enough. I have a number of questions about that. How is it that in our country interned people are still being locked up in prison? In 2019, more interned people were locked up in prison than in 2018. What is the cause of this increase? What steps have you taken in recent years to put an end to the imprisonment of interned people in prison? What steps do you intend to take to put an end to this as soon as possible? What measures do you intend to take, and by when?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u21	Mr Van Hecke, according to the internment law of 5 May 2014, it is legally possible that interned persons still reside in the departments associated with the penitentiary institutions. This can be done in the psychiatric annex or in a department for the protection of society, depending on the situation. There are still waiting lists for a shelter in the regular psychiatric care structures and institutions. Moreover, as has been said, it is perfectly legal for the Chamber for the Protection of Society to place interned persons in departments for the protection of society, both within EPI, as in Merksplas and in Paifve, as well as outside EPI, as in Les Marronniers in Tournai. The healthcare offer is available there according to the standards. Since 2014, the number of interned patients in the penitentiary facilities has been drastically reduced and more than halved, including the introduction of the Forensic Psychiatric Centres (FPCs) in Ghent and Antwerp and the wider range in the regular care circuit. That in 2019 there are a number of internees more in the penitentiary institutions than the year before may have to do with the fact that the reduced turn-over in the context of a treatment process in, for example, these FPCs, which in some cases takes a few years, has slowed down the outflow in the prisons the year before. There has also been an increasing trend in the number of new decisions on internment. Justice, in cooperation with Public Health, remains fully committed to new capacities with 860 additional places. New FPCs will be set up in Aalst for 120, in Paifve for 250 and in Waver for 250 interned. In addition, the master plan also provides for 240 places in the existing forensic or regular care institutions. These places are mainly provided for people with a particular problem who find it difficult to access appropriate care provision. These include, for example, double diagnosis of addiction problems and psychiatric problems, sexual offenders, intellectual disabilities and the like. Finally, the further development of the mobile teams should ensure that guidance and treatment are also more available to the interns on trial within their own home environment. As far as the further outflow is concerned, I would like to provide the following information. In early 2019, direct funding for people with disabilities was launched. As a result of better flow to an appropriate and less secure framework, additional budget is available to direct certain internally resident persons with a recognised disability, who are still in a secure setting, to other low security settings.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I do think that the problem can be found mainly with the outflow from the FPCs. Of course, if it stalls, no new internees can enter or be much slower, which means more internees have to stay in prison. I hope that, in addition to increasing the capacity you have overflowed, the outflow after treatment in the FPC will also be smoother.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u23	Mr Minister, the website www.verkeins.be was launched at the beginning of 2018. That's where citizens can pay their fines online. However, there were problems and people sometimes wrongly paid double or paid too much. They had to wait a long time for a refund and did not receive any information about their files. In the meantime, some problems have been solved, but according to the Federal Ombudsman's annual report 2019, 5,000 people are still waiting for a refund. The Ombudsman rightly calls this unacceptable. I have the following questions for you, Minister. Can you confirm that 5,000 people are still waiting for a refund? How long have these people been waiting for a refund? What's the average waiting time? What is the reason for the absence of these refunds? What steps do you intend to take to repay these people as soon as possible? By when will all refunds be completed at the latest?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u24	Mr Van Hecke, much of the refunds have already been made. Some are linked to technical problems, for which the government needs additional information either because of the citizen himself or because of the banking sector. Moreover, for repayments above a certain amount, an audit is first carried out by the FPS Finance to verify that there are no other outstanding debts to the government. As soon as the necessary information is obtained and the necessary checks are positive, the refunds shall be carried out consistently. Repayments for which no additional checks are required shall be made automatically after the first trimester of 2019 two weeks after the wrong payment. Thanks to the investments made, the influx can be greatly reduced and citizens should not wait long for repayment. By the summer, all information must be received in order to eliminate the last and most complex files of 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u25	Minister, it is important that this issue has been addressed in the Ombudsman's annual report. This means that there were problems that were worth dealing with and giving them a place in the annual report. It is a good thing that everything will be resolved by the summer, but for some it was quite a long wait.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u26	Madam President, Mr Segers, with regard to the repetition of terrorism, I must first say that the study that is at the origin of your questions is the result of cooperation between the Egmont Institute and the OCAD. It goes without saying that the OCAD has analysed the results. The OCAD has even developed its own analysis. There is no contradiction between the determination of a low level of recurrence and the danger of being highlighted by certain services as regards the dangers of recurrence of terrorism. It is clear that the impact of a recidivism, even isolated, in the field of terrorism is not comparable to, for example, a recidivism in the field of drugs. As regards the follow-up during and after the prison stay, I would like to point out that deradicalisation or disengagement falls within the competence of the Communities. The Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions is, of course, working with them. Psychosocial services follow the inmate during detention. The Security of the State is also involved in the succession and makes a note for the other services at the end of the sentence. Mr Segers, your question was combined with questions from Mr Metsu and Mr Pivin. That is why the answer was drawn up in two languages. With your permission, I will now translate the answer so that the elements contained therein do not disappear. But it's gonna be a little clumsy. According to a question from Mr Metsu, I would have said that the VERA-2 method is not working. I have my answer to the written question No. I do not know how Mr Metsu came to that conclusion. He can't tell me now either. I can therefore only refer to the full answer and the explicit conclusion that the findings concerning that instrument are positive, which is the opposite of the statement that it does not work. The supervision of a person to an exit from prison is the responsibility of the Communities. The police and security services are responsible for the succession. The two basic tools are the database of the OCAD and the local task force for the follow-up of individual cases and the distribution of tasks. As far as the local level is concerned, the Local Integrated Safety Cell, la Cellule de Sécurité Intégrale Locale, which brings together the local services, including the local police, which is the focal point between this cell and the local task force, should certainly be mentioned. It is not possible to detail the state's budget and revenues devoted to this issue, not only for security reasons, but also because the budget or the source of income in question is not only devoted to the issue of exit from prison, but also to radicalism and terrorism in a broader perspective. The interdepartmental commission shall be of a multiannual nature, which shall be terminated in 2019. The recurrent costs incurred in recruitment on the basis of this commission are covered by the rest of the budget. Mr Segers, I have just spoken wrongly on my own initiative about a common database of the OCAD. However, the reference to the OCAD should be omitted. That's not right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u27	Minister, we are counting on you to look very closely at this follow-up. Of course, this can be improved. For this I would like to refer to the legislative proposals that have been tabled here in the Committee on Justice, not least to ours. I hope that we will be able to do so quickly here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u28	Madam President, I notice that there were two questions on the agenda, but I really only have one question. At the beginning of May, Minister, the Flemish Peace Institute published a new report on the import of firearms and ammunition in Flanders. This shows that there is room for improvement. This is so at the level of the Regions, but also federal measures seem necessary. I have already put some questions to the Minister of the Interior about the Central Arms Register. I have another question for you, Minister. The import of arms from the Netherlands and Luxembourg today does not require a licence but a blue card, but it has no legal basis. Can an amendment to the federal arms bill be helpful here? If so, would you like to take an initiative in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u29	Mr Van Hecke, your question contains ten sub-questions. I'm doing my best to give you the most important information. The Flemish Department of Strategic Goods Control does indeed have the right to access the Central Arms Register on the basis of Article 28 of the Royal Decree of 20 September 1991. This service should contact the federal police to complete access to the Arms Register. The technical preparation is already ready. The officials concerned have also received training. A protocol between the federal police and the Department of Strategic Goods Control has yet to be written. The speed of implementation of this access depends on the amount of pending applications and assignments from the Department of ICT in the Federal Police. Since 2010, a new application of the Central Arms Register has been in use. The crossing of the Central Arms Register with the National Registry and the Police database works and is particularly useful. The documents defense and war are documents from the old arms bill. The control of illegal possession is carried out by the local police and the governor's services. Many files are still in progress and are the subject of investigations. When these investigations are concluded, the Central Arms Register data shall be updated. The Central Arms Register does allow a distinction to be made between weapon possession for sports shooting and weapon possession for recreational shooting. The subject of private security falls within the competence of my colleague, the Minister of the Interior. As for your question on the import of arms from the Netherlands and Luxembourg, the legal basis is the 1991 EU directive. This provides for a prior authorisation where a category B firearm is acquired in the territory of another Member State. Such authorisation may not be granted to a resident of another Member State without the prior authorisation of that Member State. Import and export of weapons is a competence of the Regions. Unlike the Walloon Region, the decrees of the Flemish and Brussels Region provide for an exemption from import licences for the Benelux countries. The so-called blue card is issued by the governors. However, this document is interpreted as prior authorisation of the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u30	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. As I have said, I have also put questions to the Minister for the Interior and I am looking forward to his answers to a number of concerns expressed in the annual report of the Flemish Peace Institute.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u31	Mr Bihet, the computerized link between the gambling commission and the National Bank of Belgium is being developed. With an external partner, the gambling commission undertook the first tests of the system. For the effective start date, the Commission is dependent on adjustments made within the National Bank. The necessary budgets for these have already been approved in 2019. The Commission's position on the limit imposed on players remains unchanged. It applies the text of the royal decree, both in the public position published on 23 January 2020 and in the memorandum published on 6 April last. If a player wishes to take action against an operator for breach of the said limit, neither the gambling commission nor the minister can dissuade him from doing so. For the moment, the Commission is not aware of any legal proceedings relating to this aspect. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u32	Thank you for your answer, Minister. However, legal proceedings have already been brought against at least one online gaming operator, which raises questions as to the position of the gaming commission, which is retroactive in nature. Indeed, it has published this position on its website. This position is public and concerns reimbursement. It is dangerous for operators who already see themselves, as I said in my question, deprived of a very large part of their income, given the containment measures. This publication and its retroactive nature create a new uncertainty which still seems curious. It intends to further weaken the sector. We will be very vigilant about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u33	Mr Segers, on 7 May, the FPS Justice Department received a report on the girl concerned from the aviation police in Brussels-National. Based on the external characteristics, it is impossible to determine what her age is, 16, 17 or 18 years old. The Voogdij department appointed a guardian immediately after receiving the sheet. For what preceded the statement of 7 May, I would refer you to my colleagues, the Minister of Asylum and Migration, Mrs De Block, and the Minister of the Interior, Mr De Crem, for more information. There is no protocol between the Voogdij and the airport police. The relevant regulations are clearly defined in, inter alia, the custody law and the letter of 8 May 2015 concerning the description sheet of unaccompanied minors. In addition, in the past there have been several working meetings between the Voogdij Service and the airport police. The cooperation between these services is going well. When an unaccompanied minor is found in the airport, the Voogdij and the Aliens' Office shall be informed as soon as possible. After receiving the sign sheet, the Voogdij Department will do the necessary. Occasionally, this service acquires knowledge of persons posing as adults in the airport or in a closed centre, while there are suspicions that they are minors. In such cases, the Voogdij Department was and is careful to identify and determine the age. This is very rare and the database of the service does not allow to give figures. The formation of the police on the alert of unaccompanied minors is not the responsibility of my department, which consists only of the Voogdij department. Finally, I would like to inform you that I have asked the competent department to reply quickly to your written question. Thank you, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic182x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Thanks for the commitment to answer the written question. You are referring to your colleagues for an essential stage. That is a pity because we expect an integrated approach. Indeed, we find that the operation in Zaventem is too much of a black box. The agreements need clarification. I'd like to give you a good practice. In the Netherlands, the operation of custody at the border seems to be working well. It's in the hands of the NIDOS Foundation. A division of that service is located at the airport of Schiphol Airport. It could be a recommendation to organise this also in Zaventem. Whether by analogy for Belgium it is about the Voogdij service or a foundation, I don't really care. I am more concerned with the principle of being present from there. In fact, NIDOS' Schipchaartam is permanently present at the airport and immediately also exercises provisional custody of unaccompanied minors arriving at the border. Belgium needs this, also as an objective control for the Foreign Affairs Office in those precarious places at the border. Now the role of the Voogdij service is too dependent. Some also say that the Voogdij service is too good or too limited, because it is always the Foreign Affairs Service that has to report something. That is also apparent from your reply, because you are also partly sending it to your colleagues. This creates such circumstances, whereby the DVZ reports something or interprets it in its own way. I would therefore very much like to advocate such an integrated system in the Dutch model. I hope you'll examine the suggestion.
