ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u1	Minister, on 13 November last year, Defence sent a press release showing that the construction of the new warehouse at Melsbroek airport will start about now. Work has already begun, or certainly already the preparations. The construction of the warehouse costs almost 50 million euros and the contractor for the construction is the company Democo. The press release refers to a particular financial structure and that is what my question is about. What's the deal with that, exactly? It is said that for 30 years EUR 5.5 million will be paid annually for the construction and maintenance of the warehouse. That is a total of EUR 165 million, or more than three times the cost of building the hangar itself, which costs almost EUR 50 million. How can this high cost be explained? How did the tender of the file to the company Democo go? Were there any other candidates at stake?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u2	Mr De Vriendt, the DBFM type public contract for the realisation of a maintenance shed for the A400M transport aircraft was awarded on 13 May 2019 via a 30-year PPS to Democo for an annual gross availability fee of 5.4 million. This fee shall be paid from the time the building is available until the end of the term of the contract, i.e. a period of approximately 28 years. The fee covers the construction costs of a maintenance shed in which three aircraft can be maintained simultaneously, a paint spray booth, a composite workshop, a motor and propeller shop, a warehouse, aerodromes for aircraft, a staff parking, all utilities and the adjustment of highways for an amount of EUR 50 million excluding VAT, wages, financing and maintenance in good condition of the building during the entire period. Defence therefore has the assurance that the maintenance shed will be in good condition until the end of the period. This remuneration is in line with the market prospection carried out for such a DBFM project. The tender was conducted in accordance with a negotiated procedure with publication, on the basis of the Act of 13 August 2011 on public procurement and certain works, supply and service contracts in the field of defence and security. After the call for an application to participate, six candidates were selected, three of whom submitted a tender. After the negotiations with the three candidates, the most advantageous offer was chosen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u3	Thank you for the explanation, Minister. You explained the construction and explained why you think that amount is reasonable. It still seems to me to be very high, all the more so because, when it comes to maintenance costs, the Defence press release says that the infrastructure in terms of environment and energy efficiency will be fully up-to-date. That is probably not the reason for the high costs. I shall therefore perhaps ask a number of other parliamentary questions on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u4	Minister, Defence has signed a contract with Abelag for the leasing of two Falcon 7X VIP aircraft for 12 years. Defence pays EUR 124.5 million for this. This contract raises a number of questions. Why was a leasing formula chosen instead of a purchase? This is a dry lease in which crew and ground operations are charged to the Defense Department, but maintenance is done via Abelag. Is this formula cheaper than a purchase? Checking shows that the purchase of two such devices would cost about 45 to 50 million euros. If this purchase amount is deducted from the total agreed lease amount, there will still be a substantial budget, between EUR 6 and EUR 6.5 million per year, to do the maintenance on its own. Is this simulation correct? After all, it seems to me that it is enough money to do the maintenance on its own. According to a recent press article, the ADIV raised the alarm regarding this contract. After all, Abelag is partly in Chinese hands. There is a fear that espionage equipment can be installed in the aircraft during maintenance. The fact that they are VIPs makes this possibility all the more disturbing. How will the DOD rule out this risk? Is it not an additional argument to argue for a purchase rather than a lease formula? I also saw that the ADIV would be commissioned to conduct the investigation after the award of the contract. Have any steps been taken to this end? To what extent will the aircraft be used by customers other than the Defense Department, such as the Foreign Office, the Government or the Royal House? Has there been an assessment of that? In what way will the costs be passed on to other departments?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u5	Mr President, this is not the first time my group has asked the Minister of Defence about the future of the white fleet. As my colleague has said, we are somewhat surprised at the contract the Defence would have concluded for two high-end business aircraft. According to some sources within the intelligence, this contract would involve a high risk of espionage. This is in any case what the daily newspapers De Morgen and Het Laatste Nieuws say, saying that "the risk that recordings can be made on these planes is enormous". They obviously evoke Chinese and even Russian interests. In addition, the leasing contract includes not only the rental of aircraft but also their maintenance. Further information would also indicate that the General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS) would not have been asked to assess the risks involved. Can you take stock of the procedure, both in terms of its human, budgetary, logistical and calendar aspects, of replacing the white military fleet via a private provider? What specific tasks does this market have to respond to, and according to what pattern of use? Is it correct that the SGRS was not involved upstream in this case? If so, why?What is your assessment of the risks since the publication of this information in the press?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u6	Colleagues, missions carried out by this type of aircraft are often characterised by specific requirements such as discretion and speed of execution, difficulty or even impossibility of access to the destination by civilian means, the transport of arms or the avoidance of intermediate stops in areas at risk, for small detachments. These requirements, by definition, direct the market to the private corporate jets segment, as my predecessor explained in the answer to your question of September 23, 2019. For this procurement, four companies had applied, three of which had entered a compliant bid. The price criterion represented a weighting of 60 %, the quality criterion of 40 %. In this respect, it should be noted that of the above 40 %, 32 % concerned aspects such as the availability, responsiveness and flexibility of the proposed solution. Only 8% of the evaluation covered the actual specifications of the proposed aeroplane type, and 1.6% was assigned to the "indoor and cabin comfort" criterion. The special specifications gave only one minimum point to the aircraft type. Moreover, the number of compliant bids ensures that competition has been successful and that the most optimal solution for Defence has been chosen. The main solution, in the form of two Falcon 7X, will make it possible to achieve a flight plan between 1,640 and 2,500 hours of routine flight time. The crews of the aircraft will be members of the military, but the contract provides for the possibility of requesting a civilian crew in the event of insufficient availability of military crews. In addition to the main solution, the contract also provides for an option to lease aircraft of a type other than Falcon 7X. In this case, the crews will be civilian as military pilots do not have the necessary qualifications for all types of aircraft. The firm is responsible for the maintenance of all aircraft that are made available. Finally, the contract also provides for the training of crews. Dry leasing saves €44 million over the 12-year term of the contract, compared to the retention of the fleet under its own management. The first advantage of dry leasing is thus the economy of 44 million. This solution also offers other advantages over a conventional purchasing solution. It responds to the wave of pensions affecting Defence in the category of aviation technicians, which means that it will be impossible to support the current white fleet with military personnel from 2021 onwards. In addition, the remaining technicians will be reoriented to the A400M, where it is essential to support the aircraft with operational military personnel in order to ensure expeditionary operations. Third, the contract offers a much more flexible solution than the existing fleet, thanks to the possibility of renting on an ad hoc basis other types of aircraft with a capacity of 12 to 250 passengers in order to respond quickly to an increase in the need. The percentages cited in the 2017 study, which served as the basis for the drafting of the special specification, are the result of the analysis of flights carried out in 2014 and 2015. The most recent figures were for 2017 and 2018, with details for 2019 not yet confirmed. They show a need that stabilizes around 2,000 hours and confirms the proportion of flights to military customers at 80%. Flights not carried out for the benefit of Defence shall be invoiced to the relevant third party. It should be made clear that it is essential for Defence to continue to have an autonomous strategic airlift capability in order to respond as quickly as possible to emerging crises. Given the nature of the missions carried out by this type of aircraft, a certain degree of uncertainty is inherent and the future need will always be difficult to predict. The contract responds to this uncertainty by defining a range of flight hours with a guaranteed maximum and a defined minimum. With regard to security aspects, the Council of State has ruled that the allegations made by a competitor who has not obtained the contract are not sufficient to establish that the successful bidder does not have the reliability necessary to avoid breaches of State security. As foreseen in the specifications, the ADIV will limit the safety risk by carrying out an individual safety verification of all Abelag personnel who will carry out activities on the aircraft. There is also the possibility to carry out a sweep in the aircraft to detect any bugs. It should also be stressed that the aircraft are not a classified environment and that this was never a specification of the specifications. Finally, if, during the performance of the contract, it appears that certain security risks arise, the contract may be unilaterally terminated by the Defence Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u7	Thank you, Minister. At first, it is not so clear to me where these 44 million euro savings could be made compared to a purchase of our own fleet. I asked the question in a simulation. The purchase of second-hand devices with about an exact number of kilometres on the counter would cost 45 to 50 million euros. Compared to the budget the government is spending on leasing, you still have 6 to 6.5 million euros per year for maintenance. Shouldn't that be more than enough for those planes? Then where's the saving coming from? You mention another advantage: if we need a device, can we possibly attract another third, but does it outweigh that? All the more so since I believe our security interests are at stake. Therefore, I do not agree that there are any risks associated with such leasing of the company Abelag, whose parent company Luxavation is owned by a third party by China Minsheng Investment, a large Chinese fund. We know that this aircraft will carry heads of government, people of NATO and so on. That is an environment in which you should be able to talk in a confidential, certain way and where there should be no doubt whatsoever about confidentiality and espionage and the like. This is a risk. In fact, we should always try to buy European equipment for this type of device. I'm afraid that didn't happen here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answers. I share many things that have been said by my colleague from Ecolo. You say that this responds to the shortage of military personnel, including aircraft technicians, and that there is more flexibility. But before that, it was our own planes, and it was the army that managed them. I therefore do not see how flexibility is improved. Moreover, we have still not evaluated the actual financial gain of this fleet compared to what we had before. I will come back to that on the occasion of a next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u9	Minister, in recent months Flanders has been under the spell of Camp Waes. It not only produced beautiful and exciting television, but it also showed Defence and more specifically the special forces in a positive way. For the image of the Defense Department, it was a nice and interesting operation. We also found in hearings in recent months that recruitment and influx into the Defense Department is a pain point. We can only welcome all the initiatives that are being taken to build on this image and the influx. Since January 2, people can also register for Start to Kamp Waes at the VRT. From 13 January, a training schedule will be sent for eight weeks which, after completion, must ensure that one can pass the entrance tests of Defence. The scientific support is provided by Dr. Ruud Van Thienen, athletic at the KU Leuven. In the meantime, tens of thousands of people would have registered. Mr. Secretary, was the training schedule drawn up in conjunction with the Defense Department? Is the action specifically linked to a recruitment cycle? Does the DOD have data from the registered participants and is the action reaching the right target group? On January 4th of this year one could register for the Battlefield Run. In less than 24 hours the event was sold out. In view of its success, does the DOD consider adapting the event to, for example, several days or several editions a year?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u10	The training schedule Start to Kamp Waes is an initiative of the VRT, in collaboration with the KU Leuven. There was a good meeting with the DOD. The action is not linked to a specific recruitment cycle. Because Defence is not part of the organisation of Start to Kamp Waes, we do not have the data of registered participants. However, the initiative may have a positive impact on the recruitment or physical preparation of applicants. About the 2020 Battlefield Run, organised by the Brasschaat battalion Artillery, I can inform you that there is currently no additional second day or an extension of the event. The success of the edition will form the basis of an analysis on the optimisation of future editions. The Information Centre of the Defence Region of Antwerp will also be present to provide visitors with relevant information in the event of questions. For the TV program Kamp Waes an arrangement was worked out between the production house and Defence. Defence also provided punctual support, such as the medical selection of candidates, military transport and equipment that the candidates needed to carry out the activities. Previously, a large recruitment campaign had been launched for several months, the first positive effects of which are expected. We suspect that the success of the Kamp Waes programme will also contribute to the increasing number of applicants for a job at Defense. Exact figures, however, are not available. After all, applicants are not asked what is the reason for their application.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u11	Minister, both communication services and DG HR must continue to work on these modern forms of cooperation. I am a little disappointed that, given the opportunities that exist today, there is still no stronger cooperation with the Defense Department. If we are to ensure that young boys and girls present themselves to the Defense Department, then not only the traditional paths of communication and the strict structures of Defence must be followed, but new paths must also be taken. In this way, the influx, which is a pain point, can still stay at its level in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u12	Mr President, Minister, in April 2019 the media reported the health risks that Belgian soldiers ran on a mission at Kandahar airport in Afghanistan. It was specifically about toxic smoke to which our soldiers were exposed and which came from so-called burnpits. Shortly after, the military on mission in Mali also appeared to have been exposed to that toxic smoke of burnpits. Since there is sufficient scientific evidence that there is a link between certain lung and vascular diseases, on the one hand, and the exposure to that smoke from burnpits, on the other hand, I have a battery for you. Firstly, Minister, do you recognise the link between smoke from burnpits and the health complaints mentioned? Second, on 27 June 2019, there was a consultation between the Army Union and the Defence Staff on the issue of the burnpits, arguing that the burnpits were not a determining factor or were not a determining factor in the medical complaints on the spot or after the return of the mission. Minister, how do you relate to the results of this consultation? Do you agree with the arguments and conclusions cited by the Defence Staff? Have there been any discussions following that one moment, or have there been any plans? If so, what were the results of these consultations? Further to that consultation on 27 June 2019, the Defence Staff reported only a handful of cases, while the Union referred to 125 reports by military personnel, including some twenty cases of medical complaints that have occurred following their respective missions in Mali and Afghanistan. How many cases and cases did you know about? What action has been taken on these cases? Thirdly, how do you follow up on the file in a broader sense? What's the status? Fourthly, can you back up the demands of the military unions on how to deal with air pollution during missions? What initiatives will you take in this regard? Mr President, if you will allow me, I will go straight to my follow-up question. Mr Minister, following on from the previous question, I would have liked to have answered a number of additional questions from you in connection with an article in De Morgen on 10 February 2020. Firstly, there is a letter from the CHOD to the army union, in which he states that more precautions will be taken. What are these measures? When will they be introduced? Secondly, from a secret report - or perhaps not so secret because I know by now from the Dutch Ministry of Defence that the link between these burnpits and certain health complaints was already established in 2008. The report literally states, and I quote: "The important conclusion from various reports and a document study carried out is that the emissions released by combustion consist of large quantities of dust particles that are harmful to health and the environment." Are you aware of the existence and content of that report? Can the Minister confirm the response of the military leadership? I mean, can you give me the same answer as the army command: were they aware or not? Has the Minister or one of his predecessors in relation to this report had any contact with his Dutch colleague? Is that also the case for the military leadership? Finally, has there been a similar study in our country on this matter that has not yet been made public? If so, what were the conclusions of the report? I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u13	As Mr Verduyckt is not present, I give the floor to the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u14	Mr President, Mr Creyelman, Defence works in a systematic way to keep the risks to its staff as acceptable as possible by carrying out risk analyses and then proposing the necessary risk reduction measures. The representative trade unions shall be informed of any problems associated with health and/or well-being in operations at the High Consultation Committee's meeting. The competent departments of Defence are aware of the existence and content of the Waste Processing report of the Dutch Ministry of Defence. However, it is not scientifically correct to translate the results of this study into the Belgian operating conditions. They vary from location to location and from country to country. The recommendations of the Belgian Defence Staff are based on scientific literature and on loco observations. No clear scientific conclusions can be drawn on a possible link between exposure to air pollution from burnpits on the one hand and long-term health effects on the other. The number of cases reported in the Defence Occupational Medical Services related to the underlying issue for 2019 was 149. In 10 cases out of 149 a doctor was consulted and one military of these ten was treated. The Action Plan, presented at the June 2019 High Consultation Committee on Well-being, listed actions to improve the overall management and management of health risks in operations in the short, medium and long term, both at the level of organisation of the operation and at the level of the individual. In the field of communication, action was also taken in this field, including the Communication on the Defence Intranet on 10 October 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u15	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the answer. We urgently need to assume our responsibility as a political government because our soldiers give the best of themselves every day and they are never heard complaining. In the last few decades, however, we've been saving up our defense. Even though we house them in wretched conditions, we rarely hear our soldiers complain or never complain. I hope that you will not leave it in words in this dossier, but that you will soon be taking action. I have the impression that you are trying to avoid your responsibility. When we send our military on foreign missions, we must assume our responsibility, especially if their health is in danger. I cannot therefore get the impression that you are trying to dodge here and hiding behind all kinds of files which are open to some contradiction. We need to stop looking the other way, it's time to take our responsibilities and take care of our military.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u16	Minister, there are several concessions in the old NATO reserve airport in Ursel, with sports and air clubs, other governments, driving schools, nature associations, etc. This probably also applies to the other reserve airfields in our country. Often these are large sites with valuable nature, but they are still owned by the Defense Department. What is the future vision of Defense for the airports of Ursel, Weelde, Bertrix-Jehonville, Zutendaal, Zoersel and Saint-Hubert? To what extent does the Department of Defense still need this infrastructure? Are there plans to dispose of certain areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u17	Mr De Vindt, the airports of Weelde, Bertrix-Jehonville and Saint-Hubert are reserve airfields of Defense published in the Aeronautical Flight Information Publication, which are also used for tactical air reports, helicopter and UAV operations and as training ground for the land component. Ursel's airport, on the other hand, is not a reserve airfield, and Defence needs this for parasailing and training. In addition, Zutendaal Airport is used by the U.S. forces as a staging area in the framework of the prepositioning of U.S. military equipment. Within the Defense Department, there are no plans to alienate the aforementioned site. The airport of Malle-Zuersel was abandoned by the Ministry of Defence in 2010 and was transferred to the FPS Finance in order to be alienated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u19	Mr De Spiegeleer apologizes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u20	Mr Minister, in recent times we have talked about HR, the influx and the outflux. Specific reference was made to the large emptiness in the area of barracks in East Flanders. Also from the Defence Department itself is urged to develop a new strategy to have a unity in East Flanders. Among other things, reference was made to this in the new year's letter from the CHOD. With the departure of the Atalanta from Gavere, the curtain also threatens to fall over the last real barracks in East Flanders. At present, the people of the narrow part of defense and support and those of the rear guard are busy emptying the buildings to prepare them for a possible re-destination. Their assignment ends in March. Too much centralization has negative effects on the employment of volunteers from my province in the Defense Department. There would be combat units of the country component where two volunteers from East or West Flanders resign every week because of the mobility problem. It doesn't help the high effort we're trying to make for recruitment in any way. I have a number of questions about that. Maintaining at least one small unit in Gavere can increase the future opportunities for the site. In Semmerzoep, the Department of Defense would have set up a telework office. How many people are employed here? Are there any plans to extend this further? Until 2025, the radar on the site of Semmervoer will remain active. There would also be plans to build a new installation here in collaboration with Skeyes. Will the domain remain in the hands of defence after 2025 or will it be fully transferred to Skeyes? What are the DOD's plans for the Gavere site? Is a unit I spoke of considering?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u21	Mr Buysrogge, Defence has not yet taken a decision on the future of the infrastructure of military quarters in Gavere and Semmer. As a result, formal discussions have not yet taken place with the different levels of policy. The negotiations for placing a radiomast in Gavere fully fit into the civilian military project that is consolidated with the framework agreement between Belgocontrol and Defence on 23 October 2018. At first, the part of the quarter-minute where the mast will be built will be given to Skeyes in concession. The current location of the radiomast in Gavere was chosen in coordination with the College of Mayors and Ships of Gavere and the regional urban civil servant. Currently there are in-house skeyes studies to place additional masts in Semmerboek or on nearby citizen sites. As for all radio masts, the masts of skeyes will have to comply with flight time legislation. This is, of course, a responsibility of skeyes. DOD is not aware of any compensation arrangement between the municipality and skeyes. On the military site of Semmerzoep a telework office was set up where about twenty soldiers were employed. If this is needed in the future, there is room for additional teleworkers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your specific reply on the Semmerzake site. You said that no concrete decision has yet been taken for Gavere. I think there could be political support for establishing a unity there. There are also plans at the Department of Defense to make that possible. I will certainly take further initiatives in the coming period to ensure that something happens in this area in Gavere.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u23	Minister, on 14 January, the last three Alpha Jet training aircraft, which were still loaned to France, returned to the base of Bevekom. Meanwhile, our Air Force has switched to the Joint Jet Pilot training program in Texas and the need for its own fleet, on its own devices, has fallen away. Mr. Secretary, will the Defense put the old aircraft in the window? What is the sales value of these devices after use for many years? Are the devices still usable for third parties? Do you have any buyers in mind? Has there been an evaluation of the change from the Advanced Jet Training School in Cazaux to the American program in Texas? Are there any noticeable differences in the quality of training or any elements that still need updating?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u24	Mr Minister, the Alpha Jet-type schooling aircraft acquired by the Belgian army in 1978 did not follow the growing modernity of the new aircraft. As a result, we are faced with a sale that clearly does not impose any price and thus gives third parties and private companies the opportunity to buy these aircraft. We observe that elsewhere, learning is provided by private companies. So let me fear that the same will happen to our Defence! In addition, the Royal Military School does not have the infrastructure to learn to fly as such, which so far results in Belgian pilots being sent to Texas for training. Mr Minister, can you tell me whether a specific budget is therefore allocated to this training expenditure? What is your long-term vision of schooling for our pilots in the Belgian army?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Chanson, the sales procedure is under way. Out of the eleven initially interested candidates, nine candidates were arrested at the beginning of 2019, following a selection procedure, to participate in the effective procedure for the sale of the Alpha Jets and its components. On 19 December 2019, these candidates received the specifications, inviting them to bid on the five lots. In early January 2020 the last Belgian Alpha Jets were flown from Cazaux to Beauvechain. An information meeting for the candidate Members took place in Beauvechain on 3 February 2019. They were given more details and were able to check the technical condition of the aircraft. Following the submission of tenders, the actual sales value of these appliances and spare parts will be established. The appliances and associated engines are still usable for third parties, provided the buyer has the necessary maintenance carried out. The French-Belgian cooperation for pilot training has always been successful and has led to the desired and predicted results. The training of Belgian Defence pilots takes place in several phases. Pilot students all travel through Phase 1: Basic Military Training and Theoretical Training at the Royal Military School. Then, they continue their training through the common trunk, phase 2.A, the basic pilotage phase on the SF-260 Marchetti organized within the Basic Flying Training School in Beauvechain. It is only after this stage that the various forms of training are separated. With the roll-out of the Belgian Alpha Jets, bilateral cooperation in the framework of the Advanced Jet Training School has also come to an end. As a result, the Belgian Air Component has been forced to seek an alternative solution. Future combat pilots continue their training at the Euro-NATO Joint Jet Pilot Training in Texas for phases 2.B, 3 and 4, while pilots who will command transport aircraft and helicopters will continue their training in France, as part of Franco-Belgian cooperation for pilot training. Belgium is only a small partner of this large-scale programme, which has proved its solidity through times by training our fighter pilots and those of many partners. The first group of four Belgian pilots who recently completed the training course of ENJJPT are currently in the conversion F-17, which runs without any significant problems. A second group of Belgian pilots is currently continuing training in ENJPT. A specific budget is allocated for participation in the ENJJPT programme and covers salaries and allowances for seconded staff there as well as the costs of the pilotage course. This budget is generally lower than that previously allocated to the operation of the Alpha Jet in Cazaux. Since 2019, a working group has been working on training opportunities and training arrangements for future Defence pilots.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u26	Mr Minister, I should like to make a comment when I hear your answer: to what extent is the Army Procurement Commission, whose powers at my initiative in the previous legislature have been extended to military sales, included in this sales procedure? I will also look further into the extent to which this applies here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u28	Mr President, I do not think we will replace the F-35 immediately, but perhaps the software will. Minister, the computer-controlled logistics system of the F-35 will be replaced by another system of the same company, Lockheed Martin. Until recently, it was assumed that the F-35 would be controlled by the Autonomous Logistics Information System of ALIS. That system is responsible for a lot of things within the F-35 fleet, including support. This varies from mission planning, flight planning, repairs, scheduled maintenance as well as tracking and ordering parts and spare parts. So there's a lot going on with it. After persistent problems, however, Lockheed Martin decided to throw the system overboard and opt for a new system, ODIN. The GAO, which is similar to the Court of Auditors in our country, estimates that the ALIS system has cost more than 16.7 billion dollars, which is a lot of money. So that system is no longer stopped for the F-35. Mr Minister, I have two brief questions on this matter. Firstly, does the F-35A, the type that our country also orders, also work with the ALIS and thus in the future with the ODIN system or does it only apply to the other F-35 types, which our country does not buy? Secondly, does replacing the software have an impact on the delivery period or on the cost of our Belgian purchase?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u29	Mr Vicaire, I suggest that you also put your two questions together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u30	Minister, on Friday, January 19, the Russian Foreign Minister questioned in a fairly clear way the stealth of the F-35s. Russian radars reportedly located six of these aircraft on 8 January, not far from Iranian airspace. According to Israeli military sources, it was following a failure of the software of an Israeli F-35 fighter that the aircraft appeared on all radar screens of the air defence systems of the countries of the region, including Egypt, Jordan, Syria, Russia and Iran. I have never been convinced by the need for stealth, since it is an asset in offensive operations. However, these are not included in the objectives described in the missions of our army. However, since we pay for this stealth, as much as it works. Furthermore, while the F-35's reputation for stealth has never been proven, this worrying incident only reinforces my doubts already expressed on several occasions in this commission about the quality, reliability and relevance of F-35. Mr Minister, in view of the exorbitant price that Belgium has undertaken to pay for the F-35, can you assure us that the aircraft ordered by our country will not suffer the same failure? Are you in contact with the manufacturer on this subject? If so, is he more reassuring? In the meantime, I ask my second question. The Michel government has decided to purchase 34 F-35 aircraft to replace our F-16 aircraft. Since then, let us not be afraid of words, we are going from disappointment to disappointment and, despite the price of this purchase. There are no longer any technical deficiencies reported by the United States, Australian and various countries currently involved in Iran. Today, no one can have the audacity to claim that buying the F-35 is the best choice. Yet, despite these repeated disappointments, what was not my surprise to read in the press, at the beginning of February, that the army intended to buy an additional 14 F-35. Indeed, NATO would like us to have a total of 45 aircraft, plus three reserve aircraft. Based on a limited budget, this raises many questions in terms of future choices but, although it may be, the right choice is not to order other F-35s. Minister, do you intend to respond to NATO's senseless desires? In other words, is the purchase of new F-35 really under consideration, as the press reported? Do you intend to continue to take our country on the path as doubtful as it is costly for the F-35s? By grace, when will you recognize that buying these F-35s is a strategic mistake and a monumental waste of public money?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u31	Minister, we learned a few days ago that a new problem was detected on the F-35. A new element among the many shortcomings, 13 of which were deemed critical according to the latest report of the operational tests and evaluations conducted by the US Department of Defence. Indeed, the latest defect concerns fixings that would be problematic and not properly mounted. One can imagine that in civil aviation such defects would unrelentingly nail the aircraft to the ground, which does not seem to be envisaged to date for the F-35. So, Minister, could you please inform us and reassure us about the current situation and clarify the record of technical failures identified and known on F-35 aircraft? Are these elements likely to lead to additional costs?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u32	Minister, according to some articles, NATO would have requested additional efforts from our country, which is not new, and would require the purchase of an additional 14 F-35 in order to meet the standards of 45 aircraft plus 3 reserve aircraft. Although the government in day-to-day affairs is not in a position to make such a large budgetary decision, NATO's demands will have to be met quickly. Indeed, international news is never in everyday business. In addition, it is my responsibility that the Air Component will also have to find a solution for future pilot learning. It is currently being carried out with the help of Marchetti aircraft which have already been serving our Defence for 50 years and which will one day have to be replaced. L-outsourcing could also be a trail to follow in this case. What about the applicability of the NATO standard of 45 aircraft per member country? How does Belgium intend to meet this demand? What about the future learning of our pilots? Are there any preferred leads? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u33	Mr Minister, the Court of Auditors published its report on the Air Component's commitment capacity last December, after conducting an audit in 2018. The report focuses on the three main aircraft types used in the Air component: C-130, F-16 and NH-90. According to this report, to date, the Air Component has assumed its commitment capacity whenever Defence has received an application for participation in operations abroad. But the ability to engage aircraft continues to decline over time, while NATO's ambition has increased in recent years. In particular, with regard to F-16s, the level of ambition has declined significantly in a decade. Pilots are the main bottleneck, according to the report, for the ability of F-16s to engage: their number depends to a large extent on the training possibilities which in turn depend on the number of hours of flight. Given the large number of flying hours per aircraft, the margin seems limited to increase the number of pilots and thus the level of ambition of the current fleet. This downward movement will continue with the gradual arrival of the F-35. According to the Court of Auditors, "the dismantling of the F-16 fleet will begin in 2023. It will be replaced by 34 F-35 aircraft with a lower level of ambition: 6 F-35 aircraft that can be engaged in a High Readiness Force (HRF) mission and 2 aircraft for the QRA (Quick Reaction Alert) mission over Benelux airspace." Minister, this steady decline in the scope for engagement of air combat capability is in contrast to NATO's level of ambition. So how does Belgium intend to honour its commitments or not? What steps will you take to that end? In order to monitor the level of ambition of the Air Component, the Court of Auditors recommends in particular its inclusion in the justification of the general expenditure budget. This information would enable Parliament to examine this development. Minister, what is your position on this? Do you intend to act on this recommendation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all F-35s are supported by the ALIS system that provides logistical management. They will now be supported by the ODIN system. The evolution of ALIS to ODIN has no impact on the delivery period and, based on the current elements, will also have no impact on the cost of the Belgian purchase. As regards the stealth of F-35 aircraft in general, I refer you to the answer given to Parliamentary question No 5500939C put by Mrs Melissa Depraetere on 10 October 2019.The elements included in this answer are still relevant. With regard to the F-35 attachment, this is an anomaly to the construction plan, which was detected during the final assembly process, and then reported to the US authorities as of 12 November 2019. This information, together with the measures taken, was immediately communicated to current and future users. After analysis by the competent airworthiness authorities, it appears that the flight safety of F-35 products produced before that date is not affected. This incident therefore does not concern the Belgian F-35 and therefore has no influence on their cost. As part of the NATO Defence Planning Process (NDPP), NATO is approaching each member of the Alliance in an iterative cycle of four-year consultations. On the basis of political orientations decided by the Heads of State of the Member States, and on the basis of a level of military ambition approved by all members, in a first phase of the NDPP, the Alliance shall draw up a list of minimum military capabilities expected, in qualitative, quantitative and reactive terms, for each of its members. These military capabilities are determined on the basis of multiple criteria such as the size of the country, its GDP, its capacity experience, etc. The term "target" or "blue book" is sometimes used to refer to the documents that cover this expected minimum capacity list. The last four-year cycle of the NDPP for Belgium ends in 2021 and therefore started in 2017 with the establishment of the list of expected capacities of Belgium. In 2017, NATO estimated that Belgium should be able to have at least 45 combat aircraft. In 2019, again as part of the NDPP cycle, Defence confirmed to NATO its plan to acquire 34 F-35 A combat aircraft, and again found that NATO expected Belgium to have 45 combat aircraft. The replacement of the SF260 Marchetti for the basic training of all military pilots in Belgium is indeed on the agenda. A working group is currently working on the various avenues. The preferred scenario is an outsourcing contract involving leasing and logistical maintenance. The shortage of maintenance personnel for the maintenance of aircraft and the outdated nature of aircraft are the determining factors. Once the various options and leads have been identified by the working group, the file will be submitted for approval. The intention remains to retain the initial part of pilot training in Belgium, as the advanced training of transport and combat helicopter pilots is already taking place abroad. After analysing the means and tools available to the Defence and the Court of Auditors' recommendation to integrate the level of ambition for each capacity into the justification of the general expenditure budget, it turned out that this would not bring added value. Moreover, there is no direct link between the level of ambition and the appropriations included in the budget justification. In addition, a certain level of ambition will be achieved over several years and the process will not follow the budget's annuity. The rationale, however, includes the number of flight hours per capacity of the Air Component, as well as the number of manoeuvring days for the component's totality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u35	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the answer. You have said that there is no impact on the delivery time nor on the cost. However, this will not be a direct impact. The system that is now going overboard has cost billions of euros. Someone will have to pay that bill, it would be rather naive to think that the Americans will do so alone. What interests me more is that you just said that the purchase of additional combat aircraft is being investigated in a working group. I find that rather absurd, given the many questions here in the committee about the technical capabilities of and the many problems with the F-35. The F-35 has not yet been delivered and apparently an additional purchase disc is already under consideration. I call on you to be careful with that and to take a wait-and-see attitude. In any case, my group does not support it, as you are undoubtedly aware.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u36	Minister, I am going in the same direction as my colleague. I also do not support this additional purchase. That's clear. I would also point out that the defence bottleneck is his staff. This is where we need to invest to increase our capacity for action. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u37	Minister, thank you for your clarification of my question. So here I am reassured about the angle I had adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u38	Minister, thank you for that clarification. The challenges remain immense. We will have to look at other things because we have an obligation to fulfil our international duties in an increasingly dangerous global context. I can see from this that we will still have enriching debates once we have a full-fledged government. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u39	Minister, since the questions have been attached, I will allow myself to comment first on the F-35 part, even if that is not the heart of my reply. I find that the government's answers are always in the air of "Everything is fine, Madame La Marquise", as the reports are accumulating, including from the US State Department and Lockheed Martin on all the difficulties and problems that this plane faces. I hope you're right. I'm less optimistic than you about the performance and final costs of this plane. Mr Minister, I also regret the fact that you did not follow the Court of Auditors' recommendation on integrating the level of ambition into the justification of the general expenditure budget. It's a form of makeup. I can't find another word. It is clear that the government has not wanted, in recent years, to show that its level of ambition has declined significantly. It was, on the contrary, a government that wanted to show that it was exercising in terms of security. But, in reality, the level of ambition has fallen sharply. It is very important that Parliament be able to follow this precisely from year to year and see what the capacity and level of ambition of the Air Component is. I regret that you do not comply with this recommendation. I urge you to reconsider this proposal and to incorporate this element. That is, of course, what we are looking for. That's our level of ambition. Beyond the number of aircraft, the number of pilots and budgets, it is indeed our ability to commit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u40	Mr Minister, it is good to see that the Defense Department is prepared for all possible scenarios and that it is examining all possible scenarios. It is important that the army is prepared for all possible slopes, whether it is about the F-35 or the efficient and cost-saving use, where possible, of our infrastructure and equipment. Which brings me to my question about the Sea Kings, the kings of the sea. We had five such beautiful helicopters, which have now been replaced by NH90 helicopters. I'm from Koksijde-Oostduinkerke myself. There's a lot going on with the Sea Kings. There were five, three of which have already been assigned a destination and the other two are in a sale procedure. One of the bidders is from England and would like to fly even further with the Sea King. It would be very nice that the device is not split and used for particles, but that it can really have a future in the air. That's what really lives within the Defense Department: former pilots and on-board personnel of the Sea Kings will be very happy to be available to fly that equipment. I have the following question, Minister. The sales procedure has been initiated. We know that there are two Sea Kings in the procedure, one of which is more airworthy than the other. Normally only the element plays cost, but I would like to get an update on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u41	Mr Loones, in June 2019 Minister Reynders agreed to dispose of the remaining two aircraft, RS02 and RS04, together with spare parts and ground equipment, in six lots through a private sale after qualitative selection. Indeed, the price is the only favourable criterion of the duly submitted tenders to be taken into account. In view of the advanced stage of the process, no new additional award criterion can be added. It is also not possible to initiate an alternative procedure for the sale of the same equipment as long as the current procedure was not closed. Only if the current procedure is concluded without the award of one or more tickets can consideration be given to opening a new procedure for the tickets that were not awarded, possibly with qualitative award criteria, such as keeping the Sea King airworthy, with the potential disadvantage of limiting the number of potential candidates as well as the revenue potential.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u42	Mr President, Mr Chef de cabinet, Minister, it is good to hear that you are attentive. After all, we all want more attention to be paid to the defence sector so that we can recruit additional staff. Keeping one of the Sea Kings airworthy could certainly be an element in that respect. After all, that helicopter is hugely popular. It is nice to hear that you are at least thinking in the background about how you might be able to play that popularity out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u43	Mr Minister, on 19 July 2018, the Chamber adopted a resolution on so-called killer robots. It invites the government to participate in UN working groups and the Convention on conventional weapons, in order to achieve an internationally recognised definition of fully autonomous weapons, with a view to ultimately achieving a global ban. The last meeting of the Group of Governmental Experts of the CCW took place in November 2019. A new meeting is scheduled for July and August 2020 and a review conference in December 2021. Can you give an update on the Group of Governmental Experts' work? Can you give me the records of that? To what extent has Belgium contributed to the meetings of the Group of Governmental Experts? Did our country send a delegation? What position has our country taken? In the meantime, has there been an agreement on a definition of fully autonomous weapons? What is our country's position? Will our country also participate in the next meetings in July and August 2020? Is Belgium in favour of opening negotiations on an international treaty on the issue? Should such a treaty be a prohibition treaty?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u44	Minister, in July 2018, the House passed a resolution to ban the dehumanized arms race. We learned that last November, a CCAC meeting was held and it appears that further meetings are scheduled for next year. Minister, was the position adopted by the House during the vote on the resolution in July 2018 defended by the government experts attending this meeting? In order to mark the ban, do you envisage a legislative angle that would take over the content of this resolution? What did he say at this meeting last November?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u45	This design is a competence of the FPS Foreign Affairs, which calls upon experts from Defence as advisers. The work of the Group of Governmental Experts is progressing, but there is still no consensus on the rules governing the development and deployment of Lethal Autonomous Weapon Systems. There is no generally accepted definition of such weapons yet. Belgium is actively participating in an accurate definition. The official report of the meetings of the Contracting Parties in Nuremberg 2019 and the GGE meeting in March 2019 can be found on the website of the Conventional Weapons Convention. Belgium participates in all GGE meetings. The delegation is led by the Permanent Representative to the United Nations Office in Geneva, in particular the Belgian UN Ambassador and his staff. They are assisted by technical and legal experts from the Defense Department. Together with Ireland and Luxembourg, Belgium submitted a Food for Thought Paper in 2019 to contribute to a better definition of LAWS. This note also states that Belgium opposes the use of weapons systems that can kill without any human intervention. Belgium will participate in meetings in June and August with a delegation from Foreign Affairs and Defence. Belgium supports negotiations to ratify international agreements within the framework of the CCAC. The aim is to prohibit weapons systems that oppose generally accepted humanitarian and ethical legal principles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u46	Minister, there is of course nothing in Belgium's way to take a step forward itself, and to argue very consistently and clearly for a total ban and to take the lead at international level. It is therefore our question to you that Belgium really should be a pioneer. We have this tradition when it comes to cluster munitions, anti-personnel mines and the like, so we can and must pull the cart on killer robots as well. I will regularly question you or your successor, because it is important that progress is made at those international meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u47	Mr President, I have nothing to add other than thanking the minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u48	Minister, we have been talking for some time about the situation in the Strait of Hormuz. We were asked to hear from you in committee that one person had already participated in the mission; now it would be two people. I would, of course, like to avoid any kind of insidious decision-making taking part in a mission without Parliament having discussed it in depth. I have some questions, first of all, about timing. It is strange in that sense, because there have been no real incidents in recent months. Yet you decide to send one or two people there. Can you explain exactly why this is happening? Secondly, is there any consideration of a larger contribution? Do you agree with me that in the current political context it is best to have Parliament's approval? Your predecessor has always answered that question positively. I'd like to get your point of view. Thirdly, will the European military mission not complicate the nuclear agreement with Iran?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u49	Mr Minister, eight European countries (Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, the Netherlands and Portugal) announced at the last Council of Foreign Ministers of the European Union their willingness to set up a maritime mission in the Strait of Ormuz. This will is part of a context of great instability in this region, which is essential for world peace. The Gulf and the Strait of Ormuz have indeed been confronted in recent months with numerous incidents, whether maritime or not. The safety of foreign ships and crews, particularly European ones, is therefore compromised, as is trade and energy supply. The consequences could therefore be felt throughout the world. The objective of this mission, whose headquarters will be located in the United Arab Emirates, is therefore to monitor this situation more closely. Minister, can you give us more information on Belgium's participation in this mission? In concrete terms, what resources will be mobilised? Do you already have a vision on the planning of this mission? In addition to political interests, are there economic interests at stake for Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u50	Colleagues, not its decisions of 24 and 31 January 2020, the Council of Ministers approved the engagement of a Belgian officer in a naval function of Cooperation and Guidance for Shipping to strengthen the staff of the European Maritime Awareness in the Straith of Hormuz, located in Abu Dhabi, and the boarding of a Belgian soldier aboard the Dutch frigate De Ruyter. The mission in Abu Dhabi is in the implementation phase. The installation of the Dutch frigate, with a Belgian crew member on board, has already begun and the ship is expected in the Strait of Ormuz in two weeks. The EMASOH operation aims, on the one hand, to ensure freedom of navigation and, on the other hand, to improve maritime safety and stability in the Strait of Hormuz. A number of maritime and non-maritime incidents were observed in 2019 in the Gulf in the Strait of Hormuz. These incidents were the result of increased insecurity and instability in the region and have affected the freedom of navigation and safety of European and non-European ships and their crews in the area for months. It also endangered trade and energy supply, with potentially global economic consequences. Therefore, a number of European countries have decided to ensure a safe navigation environment in the area and to reduce the current level of tension by means of de-escalating measures. A number of ships that cross the Strait of Ormuz sail under Belgian flag or on behalf of Belgian shipowners. Ensuring freedom of navigation is therefore of significant economic interest. The European initiative is not directed against a specific state, but contributes to de-escalation and the return to stability throughout the region. The operation emphasises the European unity, aimed at de-escalation for safe transit in the area. There is no United Nations mandate or European Union resolution. It is a commitment in peacetime, in accordance with international law in general and the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 in particular. The mission is based on the right of free passage, with respect for the powers of the coastal states. In the context of this European Awareness Initiative, military tasks are not currently being discussed. In times of increased tension, the Navy has the task of securing the shipping routes that are of great importance to our economy. The deployment of Belgian military personnel in a European context takes into account the needs of the mission and the availability of relevant resources. Depending on the evolution of the geopolitical situation and the execution of the mission, this is discussed on a regular basis between participating countries, both operational and political. If the situation changes completely, it is up to the government to decide on it and to develop other options. The decision to deploy was taken by the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Defence, and proposed in the Commission Follow-up of Foreign Shipments. At the level of the countries that have pledged resources, staff and equipment for the European mission, a Senior Representative contract group of the Ministry of Defence and the Foreign Affairs Office was established, which meets every six months and formulates political guidelines for the military strategic level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. For the sake of clarity, we are absolutely not opposed to participation, which is indeed one of the ways of working at European level. However, given the sensitive situation, I would like to say in particular that we would like to be kept informed of the consultations between the participating countries. As you say, the government can indeed decide on that participation. However, in the current context, it is important for Parliament to be involved in the decision. You refer to the Commission Follow-up of the foreign shipments. We shall therefore continue to follow up the dossier very closely in that committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u52	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, we are in favour of this international mission in the Strait of Ormuz. We hope that Parliament will be informed of the developments. For the time being, Belgian participation in this mission seems rather limited. However, things could change. We thank you for keeping us informed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u53	Minister, there have already been questions about the situation with the burnpits. We've had the incidents in Mali. All this indicates that our military are sometimes exposed to matters related to their personal security. Some time ago, there was a remarkable appeal from members of the special forces. They didn't feel entirely at ease about their insurance records. They themselves referred to a specific fatal case, in which a legal dispute over compensation is still ongoing. We must be concerned about that, too. Minister, I would like to know if you are aware of these problems. Do you know what the problem is or what the situation is today? Are we working on a solution? Which one could that be? I imagine these are not the most obvious insurance policies. Is there cooperation with other public security services, such as police or fire brigades?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u54	Mr President, Mr Verduyckt outlined the reason. The special forces have pulled the alarm bell. They are suing the injustice faced not only by themselves, but also by other security services, military units, police and fire brigades. This concerns the arbitrariness of a number of private insurance companies, in which it is often difficult or even impossible to take out adequate life or debt balance insurance. It is an open door that, because of the individuality of their work, with all the dangers and risks, it is immensely difficult to take out a life or debt balance insurance covering the risks of their particular job. If they do, the premiums are often sky high and priceless. Often this results in a long legal battle. However, it is our military and, in particular, the special forces that ensure our security: they should just get the best possible protection from our society. Minister, do you recognize the problem outlined in the first place? What actions have you taken to remedy this unjust situation? I have been informed that a number of proposals have already been made within the Ministry of Defence. I'd like to know which ones are. What initiatives does the Defence Department intend to pursue in order to find a lasting solution to the current problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u55	Mr President, Minister, the two recent incidents involving Belgian peacekeepers in Mali have prompted the Special Forces Group to remind the political world, through the press, of the urgent need to solve the problem of assurance faced by almost all soldiers in our army. Indeed, our soldiers accept the risks inherent in their profession to protect and defend our country. However, it seems that at the time I speak to you, they are not automatically covered by their insurance or have to pay extra exorbitant bonuses in order to exercise their mission more serenely. Minister, can you shed light on the insurance for our soldiers and indicate their coverage? Can you let me know if this insurance is valid for all components or if it varies from one component to another? What initiatives have you taken to solve insurance problems, particularly for our special forces, but also for our military in general?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u56	Mr President, Minister, how can soldiers who risk their lives for the country have to pay a high premium for life or debt balance insurance if they want to buy a house? How absurd is it that there are a number of exclusion clauses that do not ensure who works with explosives or jumps with a parachute? Then there are the paracommands, which are sent out to countries like Congo, Iraq and Afghanistan. In that case, they must send a letter to their insurance company to report it and then receive a bid back to pay to be insured. So the insurance companies are making good money out of this. It would be normal for the Defense Department to pay those extra premiums itself, we owe it to our troops. Minister, what measures are you going to take to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, insurance is an individual contract concluded by the policyholders with the company or organisation of their choice. In accordance with the insurance legislation, any insurer is free to determine its own clauses. However, since 13 September 2006, the Defence has signed an agreement with Assuralia. The purpose of this Convention is to provide the widest possible coverage for military and non-military personnel involved in an operation of the Belgian armed forces abroad during the peace period, in accordance with the basic principles of the technical nature of insurance in terms of acceptance and pricing. The purpose of the agreement was for insurers to adapt their coverage policy to the risks associated with the five types of operational engagement ranging from deployment of assistance to active armed deployment. Today, we find that many insurers charge substantial additional premiums without informing their policyholders of the coverage they offer. The Defence raised this issue with Assuralia, but it is limited to referring to the individual insurer for more information on coverage. At all times, the Department of Defence intends to avoid the transfer of the question concerning cover in the event of death to the staff or, in the worst case, to the survivors. This is a problem which deserves our full attention. After all, we have not yet left any staff in the cold. Contacts with Assuralia will continue to develop a solution that eliminates the excessive additional premiums and the uncertainty surrounding the conditions of the insurance policy. In fact, reduced coverage by the private insurer is at the root of the whole problem. An awareness-raising campaign was also launched and a hotline for this issue was set up. Although they are only exceptionally confronted with the problem of covering the risk of war in foreign operations, police officers and firefighters, for example, also have to pay an additional premium to cover a number of risky activities in carrying out their profession. I have therefore contacted the Minister for the Interior in order to arrive at a common solution to the problems of our staff in the relatively short term. We will take the necessary steps to resolve this issue at legal level. A number of slopes are currently being examined together with the Minister for Work, Economics and Consumers' Cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. As an employer, the DOD carries special risks, which we cannot deny. I am therefore pleased that you say that you do not want to leave anyone in the cold and that there is consultation with Assuralia. It's also good that we're working with the police and the fire department to find a common solution. There's a meeting going on, and you're working on it right now. So we will hear what the outcome is.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for the answers. It is, of course, an exceptional situation when our military abroad are at risk of injury and, at worst, even death from fatal accidents. However, that has already been done. At that time, the family and the next of kin are standing against the wall with their backs and are also faced with a heavy legal battle that often drags on for years. I have heard your initiatives and it is good that you are doing this. You are initially aware of the problem, but there is still a great deal of work to be done. I therefore call on you to continue the necessary consultations, not only on the special forces but also on other security actors, including the Home Affairs and Work Ministers, in order to reach a final and lasting agreement with the insurance sector. We will also shortly be holding a hearing in this committee on this particular issue. I wonder what else can get out of the bus there. The military, including the special forces, are waiting for the answer of politics. I hope that we will soon be able to discuss this in the womb of this committee. You will find a partner in the Flemish Interest to find a solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u60	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am pleased to hear that you are fully aware of the problem and that steps are being taken on your part. It's a case we need to keep an eye on. You mentioned the police and the rescue services, which are also concerned with this insurance problem. This is a global issue that we must tackle as an employer. We can't leave the situation as it is. I look forward to seeing what further steps will be taken. We could work with insurance organisations through hearings.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u61	Minister, I am pleased that you and the Defence Department are examining this matter thoroughly and that you are getting on with it. You have said that the police and the fire department often have the same problems. They are all people who serve the people and the country. Those people don't deserve to stand in the cold. There are hardly any new soldiers in the Defense Department. The outflow isn't small either. We must therefore offer attractive working conditions. That is why it should be a priority for you to tackle and solve this problem quickly. I myself, but especially our men and women in uniform are counting on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u62	In conclusion, as Mrs Ponthier has already said, a hearing on this point will indeed be scheduled, together with the insurance sector and the people of Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u63	Debates of the European Parliament 55002872C by Mr Pivin was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u64	Mrs. Soors is absent. I give the floor to Mr Verduyckt.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u65	Mr President, Minister, my attention was aroused by a newspaper article on extremism in Germany. Extremism is particularly sensitive in Germany, certainly extremism in security services. It was found that there are some problems among the elite soldiers. In Germany 550 soldiers are followed by the security services because of their extreme right-wing sympathies. In my opinion, we must be particularly sensitive to extremism in security services. Safety is there for everyone. The sensitivity must apply to the Defense Department all the more. Wherever people with public funds are offered training and where weapons are used, we must always be particularly careful with people who have extreme sympathies of any kind. That is why I would like to ask you about a state of affairs. I saw that in 2016 the figure of about 50 soldiers was mentioned who were followed up because of possible problems. Minister, what is the state of play today? How many soldiers are we talking about these days? What types of extreme sympathies do we encounter in our army? What measures are being taken when there is some concern about the extreme thinking of a military? There has been a problem with recruitment lately. We also need to be careful about recruitment. Sometimes I feel like people are getting into our army a little faster. Is there a screening of extremism among new candidates?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the number you mentioned of some 50 soldiers who were succeeded by extremist sympathies has indeed spread widely in the media, but it needs to be nuanced. Firstly, that number includes all forms of extremism, whether it is a radical interpretation of a religious movement or of a far right or a far left. Secondly, control does not automatically mean that the radicalisation of an individual has been proven. It just means that there are suspicions that led the department to start an investigation at some point. Finally, not all people who are being followed up are military, but there are also citizens with a working relationship with Defence and ex-military who may still be in contact with their former colleagues, or even young people who are running for defence. The nature of the sympathies is diverse and varied. In rare cases, we can speak of membership of a group that comes together with other members who share the same ideology, but most of the time we are dealing with isolated cases. As far as the figure is concerned, the number of cases dealt with shows a slight increase which can be attributed to better detection mechanisms. That increase is not significant enough to suggest that there is an increase in extremism in the ranks of the army. Most of the suspended cases are based on facts or statements suggesting that certain persons in Defence have sympathy with an extremist ideology. These are usually individual facts that cannot be associated with an organisation. The extreme right-wing groups operating in Belgium and influencing Defence personnel can certainly be inspired by other groups operating abroad, as was the case with the Soldiers of Odin mentioned and associated with similar movements in other countries. However, in most cases it is difficult to speak of international branches as such, because the links are so thin, which can easily be explained by the fact that these groups favour an ethnocentric vision of the world, are often highly territorially anchored and, above all, pursue a local, national or regional agenda. The ADIV has no tangible evidence to support the theory of intentional infiltration by extremist organisations. Within Defence, as elsewhere in Belgian society, an individual's ideology is not an incriminating element in itself. Freedom of expression is one of the fundamental freedoms guaranteed by our Constitution. However, once these ideas lead to reprehensible words or actions, they are immediately subject to disciplinary or administrative sanctions. Sometimes the ADIV informs the corps commander or the security officer of a unit of the possible distraction of a military in his ranks. For several years, Defence has had internal notes aimed at alerting each member of staff against membership of organisations with a bad or questionable reputation or at reminding them of the rules on freedom of expression. There is also a legal arsenal. The anti-discrimination law, the denial law, the anti-racism law and the gender law make it possible to punish unacceptable statements or actions of any citizen, whether military or otherwise. If there is concern about the extreme thinking of a defence officer and if the person concerned is in possession of a security clearance, it may be withdrawn or limited in time or in classification level. If a criminal offence has been committed, the detachment of the Police and the Military Environment will be informed and legal measures can be taken. Each candidate-military shall be subject to security screening to detect any negative elements incompatible with a function within the Defence Department. In case of serious or proven facts, the ADIV should also inform the public on its own initiative. Article 8 of the Organic Act on the Intelligence and Security Services of 30 November 1998 should be recalled. The article defines extremistly as follows: "Racist, xenophobic, anarchist, nationalist, authoritarian or totalitarian ideas or objectives, whether political, ideological, religious or philosophical, which in theory or in practice conflict with the principles of democracy or human rights, with the proper functioning of democratic institutions or with the other foundations of the rule of law." In this sense, extremism and ideas resulting from it pose a latent danger to the Belgian State which is based on the principles of democracy and human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u67	Mr President, Minister, from your detailed answer I can conclude that there is a great deal of attention to what is going on here. It is, of course, very difficult to get an insight into what is happening in someone's head. I understand. I also understand that this is not always easy. However, I am glad that attention is paid to it. The ideology is indeed free. However, these are people who work in public services and need to be aware of them. We must fight all forms of racism and discrimination, especially when it comes to security. Defense is a security force. When it comes to safety, we cannot be too careful.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u68	Then we come to the combined question of colleagues Moscufo and Jadin about Belgium's participation in the NATO exercise Defender 2020. Mrs Jadin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u69	Mr President, I note that I reintroduced my question, when the minister had already answered it in January.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u70	So the question can be withdrawn. It is also true that we will be visiting in the context of Defender 2020 and that the general concerned will probably come here for an explanation on 11 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u71	That's good, I'll write it down. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u72	Minister, at 1:00 p.m., we will be holding hearings on military purchases from a few years ago. Indeed, we had to find that some of the equipment concerned was defective or could never be operational at 100%. Their purchase and restoration were particularly expensive. This is particularly the case with the "Piranha" tanks. In January, the Earth component announced that it would undertake a major exercise – called "Lion Desert" – in Jordan. This mission is organized so that soldiers can deploy in tropical environments and motorized units can train in desert conditions. The Earth component therefore wants to exercise in a demanding environment and to be prepared at best. In addition, this training is necessary to maintain the attractiveness and value of the military profession for young recruits, but also to preserve the credibility of our army in the eyes of its international partners. To do this, the "Piranha" battle tanks will also be used - while they have never been really operational. Minister, can you remind us of the state of these battle tanks? That will be very useful to us. Can you also explain the advantage of using it in this very particular exercise? Finally, why does the Belgian army use these vehicles, which, in principle, are not fully operational in a training in Jordan, even though it is of great importance in terms of our credibility towards our international partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u73	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, according to military terminology, the Piranha IVA is an armoured infantry vehicle. This one is not catalogued as a battle tank as are the German Leopard 2 tanks, the American Abrams or the French Leclerc. The IVA Piranha constitute the organic vehicles of three infantry battalions: regiment 1/3 Lanciers, regiment of Ardennes Hunters and battalion Bevrijding – 5 Linie and are regularly deployed in operation as is the case in the Baltic countries. The different versions of Piranha are operational, with the exception of the 90 mm gun arrow munitions. In this context, it was decided not to use this type of ammunition with the DF90 (Direct Fire 90) version of the IVA. The use of other types of ammunition is of no concern. One of the possible areas of action for an inter-arms company, many of which will be Piranha IVA vehicles, is the Sahel. It is therefore extremely important to train our personnel to use these vehicles in conditions as close as possible to those which could be encountered in the Sahel. This is the whole meaning of Exercise Desert Lion that will take place shortly in Jordan. As part of this exercise, more than 150 vehicles will be deployed, including some 30 IVAs. In addition to training staff, it will also be an opportunity to test our equipment in extremely demanding desert conditions and to ensure that our logistics and medical procedures are perfectly able to support real operations. Through the use of the means deployed, but also through the integration of the means of the partners involved in this high intensity exercise in desert environments, Exercise Desert Lion will be an excellent showcase for promoting our operational credibility towards our international partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u74	Minister, you were very quick. I would like to have the written version of your answer, if possible. I am obviously very much in favour of this mission. Don't get me wrong. That's not what I said at all. I am obviously very pleased that our soldiers can practice abroad, that this can be an important showcase for our army. I will always be of this opinion and to defend this in a positive way. I was just wondering about the use of this vehicle, which I learned is not a tank in the proper sense of the word. I was surprised to learn the use of Piranha. That is why I asked this question. I will read the answer that has just been given to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u75	Minister, West Flanders and Defense are a wonderful combination. If this combination is extended a little further with the asylum policy of this residual government, the picture unfortunately becomes somewhat less pleasant. We see that the lax migration policy is beginning to have a major impact. Fedasil's budget, which is responsible for the asylum shelter, is exploding. Normally this should be EUR 320 million for the last four years and a few months, but 235 million has been added. Besides, there's got to be a place for all these people. In doing so, it is clear that there has been a compelling approach towards the defence sector to come back to this and to ensure that people who are in an asylum procedure would also receive shelter, especially in the cold winter months. For West Flanders people think of Poelkapelle and Koksijde. My own municipality of Sijsele was also in the news recently. There are a number of questions to be asked. If we can believe the media, there seems to have been a good agreement between Defense and the city of Damme and Sijsele, which would allow them to acquire the site and set up a neighbourhood of the future or organise events. That's a piste that's been on the table for a while. Some questions are being asked about what exactly is the situation with regard to asylum reception. If we are well informed, the agreement with Defence would state that asylum seekers could be received for two years from March 2020. Is that correct? There is also talk about the restoration of the defence site. Do you have any more information about this? How will the costs be taken into account? Do they all fall under the responsibility of the Department of Defense or of the city as well?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u76	Mr Loones, an agreement has been reached between Defence and the West-Flemish Intercommunal, the future owner of the military site in Sijsele, on the approach to the acquisition of this site, as well as on the progress of soil restoration. Although there is no role for the Defence Department in promoting the conversion project for the vacant barracks. The intention is to make the site available to the West Flemish Intercommunal by means of a domain concession pending the expropriation. A domain concession was established for the benefit of the Red Cross from 10 February 2020, running until 31 January 2022. The estimate for the cost of soil remodelling is EUR million charged to the Defence Department. For the transfer, however, there are no costs for the Defense Department. The timing of the signature of the sales certificate depends on the presentation of the expropriation authorisation by the West Flemish Intercommunal to the competent authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u77	Mr. Secretary, it's nice of you to join us. Defense always comes to the rescue. But let's face it, that's not the core task of the Defense Department. In crisis situations, such as the European asylum crisis in 2015, it is a good thing that Defence also contributes. Today, however, the situation is different. After all, it seems to be a self-proclaimed crisis. There is no problem anywhere in Europe or even in Western Europe. That is only the case with us. It may therefore be nice to see that the defence sector is once again helping, but it is not its core task, certainly not in view of defence's own needs and projects. There must be a transfer of bases and barracks, such as the barracks of Sijsele, which can bring money into the defense. By the way, I have just tabled a similar question about Koksijde, a base that would also move to Ostend, but where there is a plan to build a helicopter platform on agricultural land. This is also an investment in which some questions can be asked. I put a new question on that file. The dossier will certainly be discussed in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u78	Debates of the European Parliament 55003176C by Mrs Jadin has been converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 55003290C) by Mr Lacroix, (Doc. 55003355C) by Mrs Rohonyi and No 55003355C) by Mrs Rohonyi and others: 55003396C by Mr Bayet has been postponed at the request of Mr Lacroix. Debates of the European Parliament 55003297C by Mrs Creemers lapses as we have not heard from her. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Bayet's 55003299C has been converted into a written question. So we come to question No. 55003310C by Mr Verduyckt. I suggest his question becomes the penultimate question for today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u79	Mr Minister, I never thought I would ask questions in Parliament about a shower that does not work, but it might still be a symbolic dossier. We have already talked about this in the past. Your predecessor, Mr Reynders, said that the problems had been solved, but it appears that this is still not the case today. The sad thing about this story is that it is about a school where we train people to be an army petty officer and that the school commander on TV even has to admit that people have already dropped out because of the problems at the school. We cannot tolerate this at all, all the more so because it seems that we have tried to connect the school to the ordinary water network, which apparently has not succeeded. I certainly don't know what's going on. I have the following questions, Minister. What about the problems? Was your predecessor's information premature, because he said that the problem has been solved, which apparently is not? How come the military site cannot be connected to the regular water network? Today the site works with a well. Apparently, there have been a number of attempts to change that. Is that information correct? More generally, as regards the strategic vision on the approach of the barracks. Your predecessor said that a number of things have been provided for in the strategic vision. I have not found this approach anywhere, so I wonder where I can find it and what the state of play is.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u80	Mr Verduyckt, the information given in November 2019 was correct. The problems with the 2019 water distribution were due to leaks in the underground pipeline network, which were repaired. At the beginning of February this year, the water supply was switched to water supply via the public network. However, when the connection was started, it appeared that the peak decrease of the 15 minutes was higher than what the water company can deliver, which caused a two-day break of several hours. It was decided to switch again to its own water extraction pending a solution on the ground for a connection to the public network. As regards the sanitary hot water for the showers, the necessary temporary repairs were carried out. The final repair will be addressed through a thorough renovation in the second half of 2020. Over the next 10 years, the strategic vision of Defence will provide a catch-up to ensure that the obsolete buildings comply with the standard. In line with this, the infrastructure investment plan budget was increased to 75 million euros in 2020 to further increase to 100 million euros per year in the coming years, in addition to investments in capacity infrastructure and the new Defence Headquarters. Given, on the one hand, the size of the necessary investments and, on the other hand, the time needed for the realisation of major new construction or renovation works, it will take several years before the results of this approach become widespread visible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u81	We will continue to follow the practical case of Saffronberg. I hope that the problems there will be solved, because this is a blemish in the school there. If it's about the barracks in general, you'll find an ally in us. This is indeed a clear priority rather than buying additional aircraft as you said earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u82	Minister, last week, international media brought out that the American intelligence services have for years bugged a large group of countries, both enemies and allies, through Crypto encryption equipment. The CIA and the BND became owners of that company through a back door and built back doors that they could easily crack. More than 120 countries would have been customers of Crypto. Allies like Italy and Spain were also bugged. According to Dutch reports, Belgium would also have been bugged. Mr. Secretary, has our country purchased equipment from Crypto over the past few decades? If so, what services did the equipment use and when? If not, how was it ensured that Belgium is not at similar risk to other companies? Which countries produce the equipment? Was our country aware of Crypto's wiretap? If so, since when? Have you taken steps to better protect the Belgian security infrastructure? If so, what impact does this have on communication with other countries that do use Crypto? If not, what impact does that have on our country's security infrastructure? What steps will you take?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u83	Minister, sometimes reality is better than fiction. After all, this is a special story. It is quite logical, in fact, to use coding machines with which not only America but also Germany, which is much worse since it is one of our European allies, listening through a back door. The first question that arises is whether our country has also been bugged. Are there any clues to that? Is the Belgian army still using these devices? Was this news for the Belgian army? Did you know that something was going on, or did the security of the State fall off his chair as well? Does this case give rise to an internal investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u84	Mr Van Hecke, Mr Verduyckt, in the 1950s, Defense purchased a number of Crypto AG encryption devices. These were used until the mid 1960s to ensure communication with operations abroad. Since then, Defence has only purchased encryption devices approved by NATO and the EU for the purpose of calculating classified information. These devices are produced in two European countries. Currently, its own national encryption products are also being developed in collaboration with Belgian industry and universities. The information currently available shows that Defense was not aware of any problems with Crypto AG equipment. For classified communication with small detachments abroad, Defense uses its own implementation of an unbreakable cipher algorithm, using the key only once to encrypt a single message and destroying the key after use. For the encrypted communication of military networks in Belgium and abroad, Defence applies a crypto policy in accordance with NATO and EU policies, using only encryption devices that have a NATO or an EU certification. A double encryption is then implemented by means of additional hardware or software matrix ciphering. DOD has never used Crypto AG encryption devices for its bilateral communication with partner countries. Through these bilateral connections, only nationally classified information is sent that can be released to the partner. As a result of the information published in the press on the Rubicon espionage operation using encryption material, the I Committee will shortly launch an investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u85	Minister, you are actually saying that we should not worry too much. I don't mind believing that. However, who can confirm that the equipment approved or supplied by NATO is safe? Who supplies the parts of that equipment? I have also heard that the Committee I will carry out an investigation, and I think that is a good thing, so that it can be thoroughly explored. When the report is ready, we can see what conclusions to draw from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic115x.u86	Minister, I agree with my colleague. The damage seems limited at first sight, if I may believe you. This proves, however, that we must remain vigilant in such matters.
