ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u1	Madam Chair, Minister, in June 2018, the Federal Seniors Advisory Council delivered an opinion on the consequences of re-integration after an accident at work on the pension. The current pension legislation provides for different conditions for periods treated as a result of sickness or invalidity and for periods treated as a result of an accident at work or an occupational disease. The Royal Decree of 21 December 1967 on the general regulation of the retirement and survivors' pension scheme for employed persons stipulates that periods of sickness or invalidity may be treated only if the worker is entitled to the benefits provided for in the legislation on sickness and invalidity insurance or maternity protection. While for periods of work injury or occupational disease to be assimilated, the same Royal Decree requires at least 66% of the incapacity for work. According to the Council, the reintegration of a victim of an accident at work or occupational disease has a negative impact on the future pension of the persons concerned if they return to work at more than a third time. The Council therefore recommends an amendment to Article 34 of the Royal Decree of 21 December 1967 so that victims of an industrial accident or occupational disease who wish to return to work gradually will no longer suffer negative consequences in the calculation of their pension. Minister, do you confirm this finding? Have you considered the opinion of the Federal Seniors Advisory Council? What is your opinion on the matter? Are you prepared to change this rule?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u2	Madam Chair, Ms. Dedonder, the Federal Seniors Advisory Council seems to say that the percentage of incapacity for work is directly influenced by the work regime. However, I can assure you that this is not the case since the worker will retain assimilation on the basis of his/her last salary as long as his/her incapacity for work is recognized at least 66%, regardless of his/her working regime. The 66% recognition of incapacity expires, however, when the person concerned returns to full-time employment. Therefore, in my view, there is no need to adapt the legislation. As long as the person concerned has not resumed full-time work, the pension entitlement for days of inactivity is maintained for the whole period of incapacity at 66%. When he resumes full-time work, he will again be assured of a full-time pension as he will receive a full-time salary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u3	Minister, if I understand correctly, even if people gradually return to work, they will not be penalized at pension level. Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u4	Until the person concerned has resumed full-time work, the pension entitlement is maintained for the entire period of incapacity at 66%.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u5	I will contact the Federal Advisory Council for Seniors to discuss the matter, and I will come back to you, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u6	Madam President, Minister, the Michel Government decided to draw up a list of serious appeals. The occupational categories included in this list could include an early retirement pension before reaching the increased statutory retirement age. The trade unions and you as Minister of Pensions already reached an agreement in 2018 on a list of heavy professions in the public sector. As regards the specific care sector, the list includes the following professions: nursing and nursing staff of hospitals, care centres and other institutions and services approved by the government, MUG staff and ambulances, educators and accompanying staff in areas of youth care and community institutions, child care providers and care staff and staff employed in closed centres. However, the vast majority of these professions also exist in the private sector, and that is where the problem lies. In vain, social partners and employers' organisations tried to reach an agreement to draw up a list of heavy-duty professions for the private sector. At the end of 2018 the consultation ended and in 2020 there is still no agreement. It is clear to everyone that care workers from both the public and private care sectors have been and are still in the front line during this corona crisis, but also in spite of this crisis, everyone is convinced that a job in the care sector is a difficult profession, which cannot be exercised until the age of 67. However, the nursing and nursing staff meet the four criteria set by the previous government itself to be included in the list of heavy-duty occupations: physical heavy-duty work, e.g. loading and lifting; incriminating work organisation, shift and night work; increased safety risk; and mental or emotional stress. It is a pity that the government, during its full powers, missed the opportunity at last to work on the list of heavy-duty professions during this time of Corona. Putting the corona heroes figuratively into the flowers or applauding them is a noble gesture, but there is an urgent need to improve the working conditions of nurses and other care staff. There is an urgent need to make the profession attractive again. There is an urgent need for a review of the profession, which means better remuneration and good pension conditions. In short, a statute where a workable career and a good and insured pension at an early age is a must. Nursing and nursing staff are entitled to clarity about their future. They don't deserve to put the consultation back on the line. They don't deserve to be given empty promises. They don't deserve to have a bill on the table yet. It seems that the government has not been able to carry out real reforms that would benefit the people who held our society right and gave hope in these uncertain times. Two weeks ago, you received a letter from a number of nurses' organizations. In the meantime, have you or the government had discussions with the interest groups and employers in the healthcare sector in order to meet their demands? If so, what was the result of this? If not, why not? Does the government intend to rapidly include the consultation on the list of heavy-duty professions in the private sector, where it ended two years ago? Now that we are two years later, will the list of heavy-duty professions in the public sector be renegotiated? Or will the list remain final? Will the government retain the direct approach to working conditions followed by the Michel Government? Or will we also look at an indirect approach, with more emphasis being placed on objectifying the health effects of the profession? What concrete measures will be taken in the short term to respond to the heavy occupation of health care professionals or nursing staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u7	Mrs Samyn, on 7 June I received a letter from the National Federation of Belgian Nurses. In that letter, the Federation and the partner professional associations request that the nurse's appeal be considered as a heavy appeal on the basis of the criteria laid down by the National Pension Committee on 12 September 2016. These criteria are: incriminating working conditions by physical inconvenients associated with the working environment, an incriminating work organisation, stress due to increased safety risks, stress of mental and emotional nature. In the course of the previous legislature, I drew up a draft law which allows workers, self-employed persons and civil servants who have engaged in a heavy occupation, i.e. all employed persons with a heavy occupation, either to advance their retirement or to continue their professional activity and to benefit from a higher pension. The draft law was adopted on 23 May 2018 by two of the three trade union organisations on the A Committee. In addition, the A Committee agreed on a list defining the difficult functions of the public sector. The following functions are included on that list: nursing and nursing staff of hospitals, health care centres and other bodies recognised by the authorities as being very difficult to pursue. This allows for an increase of 15% in the career to be taken into account for the opening of the entitlement to early retirement. The health crisis we have been facing more than ever confirms the need to recognise the heaviness of the profession of nursing and nursing staff in pension legislation. However, it is necessary to seek recognition of the heavy professions according to similar modalities in the three pension systems, in particular civil servants', employees' and self-employed pensions. This concern is all the more relevant as nursing staff are divided between those three systems. I am very sorry that the social partners have not managed to reach an agreement for the private sector on a list of heavy duties before the start of the government's current business period in December 2018. As indicated in my reply to the federations of nurses, I hope that the reform, which is already at an advanced stage, can be continued by the next fully-fledged government and that a rapid agreement can be reached by the social partners in the private sector. It is an effective reform, which is the result of long negotiations and which includes several elements that cannot be separated from each other. The next government must ensure that the reform is completed. In view of the agreement in the A Committee and given the urgent need to take account of the heavy professions, the draft could be adopted for the public sector once a new government has been appointed, with an extension for similar functions in the private sector. This is also the recommendation of the social mediators appointed to bring together the views of the social partners in the private sector. This will allow all healthcare providers to benefit regardless of their status from the provisions to retire earlier or benefit from a higher pension without having to wait for a final list of the heavy jobs in the private sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u8	Minister, you gave some of that answer in plenary two weeks ago. One of the industry's questions is indeed to address the list of heavy-duty professions, in which a number of injustices could be rectified. Anyone recognised in a heavy occupation will be able to retire a little earlier. This means that on the 60th anniversary pension could be applied for. That does not seem to me to be an unfair question. As I indicated during the explanatory statement, the nursing and nursing staff meets the four criteria that you set yourself in 2018 to be included in the list of heavy-duty professions. The criteria are physical heavy work, an incriminating work organisation, an increased safety risk and mental or emotional stress. What the healthcare sector needs above all are not words but deeds. Above all, what the healthcare sector does not need is a collapse of pressure. What the healthcare sector does not need in particular is additional emotional burden. And what the healthcare sector does not need in particular is a broken back, so that the profession can no longer be properly exercised. The healthcare sector has been demanding a thorough reform for so long before there was a coronapandemic. In a newspaper article itself two weeks ago: "We cheer every day for the nursing staff, but more concrete things are needed here. Recognition of the heavy occupation is not enough. We will have to look at the pay scale and the attractiveness of the job." You are now pointing out that there is a need for reform, but make it happen now. Don't transfer it to the next government. On your website, for example, there is nothing left to read about the heavy professions since 2017. There's no sign of your announced bill. Take up your responsibility and get on the list. Invest in a review of the profession, make it attractive. Give those heroes and all workers in the other sectors where a heavy occupation is being pursued, to which they are entitled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u9	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Ellen Samyn and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Ellen Samyn and the reply of the Minister for Pensions, - having regard to the decision to draw up a list of heavy-duty professions; - whereas the social partners have already reached agreement on a list of heavy-duty professions in the public sector; - whereas a list of heavy-duty professions should also be listed as a matter of urgency for the private sector; - whereas the COVID-19 pandemic has shown once again that, among other things, the jobs in the care sector are heavy occupations; asks the government: - to resume negotiations as soon as possible in consultation with both the private sector and the social partners in order to draw up a list of heavy-duty professions." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Ellen Samyn and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms Ellen Samyn and the response of the Minister of Pensions, Whereas it has been decided to establish a list of arduous occupations; Whereas the social partners have already reached an agreement on a list of difficult jobs in the public sector; Whereas there is an urgent need to draw up a list of difficult trades for the private sector as well; - Considering that the VOCID-19 pandemic has once again shown that the professions in the care sector are difficult jobs; Asks the government: - to restart negotiations as soon as possible, in consultation with both the private sector and the social partners, with a view to establishing a list of difficult trades." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Isabelle Galant. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Isabelle Galant. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u10	Madam President, Minister, people who are about to retire and who were looking for a large enough amount of their supplementary pension may have a very bad surprise. Indeed, for pension plans such as defined contributions managed by a pension fund or by an insurance company under a branch 23, whose performance is linked to the performance of the markets, the law guarantees of 1.75 %. But in recent years, yields have been high. The insured have therefore accumulated a substantial surplus. This was not to mention the emergence of the health crisis that we are experiencing, since since then financial markets have experienced declines of 15 to 20 per cent. The people who will be pensioned in the coming days will find themselves with amounts very different from what was announced to them. In view of the situation, a request for an exemption from the Supplementary Pensions Act has been submitted to you. The aim is to delay the payment of these supplementary pensions for an indefinite period, hoping that, in the meantime, the contracts will go back, and that people who leave the pension will not now see their supplementary pension planed. Mr Minister, this once again demonstrates that the only valid pension guarantee for workers is the first pillar, which must be strengthened. However, today, what do you intend to do for those close to the pension who relied on this supplementary pension? Will you accept the request for postponement? Should we once again expect the State to replace itself in order to guarantee the amount promised to the workers concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to make it clear that, for my part, I do not prefer supplementary pensions to the detriment of statutory pensions. For me, both are important and the policy that I have pursued in recent years was first and foremost aimed at ensuring the sustainability of the first pension pillar. However, I am of the opinion that the supplementary pension is, as its name suggests, a necessary supplement to the statutory pension in order to guarantee to our citizens, when they are pensioners, a standard of living which is more in line with that which they had when they were working. With regard to these supplementary pensions and the FSMA study to which reference is made, I have already answered the questions asked in this regard. I would like to recall that this study covered defined benefit-type pension plans which cover only 10 per cent of the total number of members of a supplementary pension commitment. In the context of these defined benefit-type plans, fluctuations in financial markets have no impact on the benefit received by the member upon retirement. This benefit is defined in the pension regulations and the pension organization must pay to the member the full amount of the benefit which is defined in the regulations. If there is a deficiency, the employer must clean it up. The VOCID-19 crisis therefore has no impact on the defined benefit to which the member is entitled under these pension plans. In addition, there are defined contribution-type pension plans under which the member is entitled to the capitalization of contributions made in the plan as he or she joins. Such plans may be managed by an insurance company under Branch 21. In this case, the VOCID-19 crisis also has no impact on the benefit, since it is guaranteed by the said company. The majority of defined contribution-type pension plans are administered in such a branch. It is also possible to manage contribution-type plans defined within branch 23 or with a professional retirement institution. In this case, the capitalization obtained depends in fact on the fluctuation of the markets, it being understood – as you specify in your question – that, to take this into account, the legislator has specifically provided for a legal minimum return on the employer and the sector. Moreover, we negotiated the rate of 1.75 per cent together. Whatever the fluctuations in the markets, the affiliate will be entitled, in any event, to this legal minimum. I would like to point out that it was the Group of Ten that had decided to reduce this legal minimum guarantee rate. Contrary to what you might suspect, so I did not weaken the protection of workers. In view of the above, I can reassure you and confirm that there is no question that workers are waiting before receiving their supplementary pension. It is liquidated upon retirement. Employers or sectors, of course, should, if necessary, clear any shortfalls – including in terms of the legal minimum performance guarantee. Therefore, there is no reason why the State should replace any private body. Moreover, I would like to draw your attention to the recent news from the FSMA in the press that investment funds and occupational pension institutions have resisted the VOCID-19 crisis rather well. At the beginning of the month, the coverage rate for short-term liabilities was 144 per cent and for long-term liabilities 117 per cent. In conclusion, I cannot fully share your views on supplementary pensions. I believe that our supplementary pension system, which is very different from that in force in the Netherlands and cannot therefore be compared to that, has clearly demonstrated in the context of the VOCID-19 crisis that it included beacons to protect affiliates from possible market fluctuations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u12	Minister, thank you for your detailed answers. I maintain that the most important thing is the first pillar pension and that if there is a real desire to strengthen it, we must move towards a minimum pension and ensure a stronger progressivity than it is today. As far as the problem of supplementary pensions is concerned, your theoretical answer is quite correct, but I would like to point out that we have never been immune to employers or branches of insurance which would be failing and which could not fulfil their obligations. I do not compare with the situation in the Netherlands – I know the differences well – but we are not immune from a failure in the insurance or supplementary pension system in which the employer must eventually complete the defined benefit. At that time, the pensioner will be punished anyway. It is important that we have much more advanced thinking on the issue of first pillar pensions and supplementary pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of this set of questions, I would like to remind you of the small timed exercise that we are submitting in order to try not to exceed the deadlines. As Mr. Colebunders was absent, his question was moot. I don't see Mr. Troosters either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u14	Madam President, yesterday he apologized to the services. I don't know if it's possible to turn his question into a written question?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u15	That is a joint question. As Mr. Troosters is absent, his question becomes moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u16	Madam President, Minister, on 7 May the law on the calculation of the pension supplement of underground miners was adopted. This corrects an incorrect calculation of the pension supplement of the underground miners and provides for a retroactive payment up to 10 years ago of lost pension rights. At the time of submitting my question, the law had not yet been published in the Belgian Official Journal. We have had to wait a while for that. Now, by the way, I also know that this happens with parchments. Fortunately, that publication has happened in the meantime. This is essential for the miners to know what is going on with the further implementation and administrative processing of the files. The law has been published. From when will miners receive an adjusted pension supplement? Then I have a question about the retroactive payment. After all, we know that all these dossiers must be processed manually. When will the Federal Pension Service start accounting for the files so that the pension supplement can also be applied retroactively? Is there enough staff? How long will it take for all miners to receive the supplement, for which they have paid contributions? In what way will the supplement be paid out? What are the modalities of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u17	Madam President, I wish you a happy birthday. Minister, you have put many miners' hearts to the test in May. I know a lot of miners are following this meeting through livestream. They would very much like to hear your position, explaining exactly what went wrong and why it took so long for the law to be published in the Belgian Official Journal. I agree with Mr Vanrobaey's question on a state of affairs. What happened in the meantime to start the calculation? From when is payout possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u18	Mrs. Creemers, thank you for your good wishes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u19	Madam President, the Law of 15 June 2020 on the method of calculating the pension supplement of underground miners was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 19 June last. The publication of the law could not take place earlier, because the parchment delivered by the services of the Chamber contained errors and did not correspond to the text adopted in plenary, which forced the King to restart the signature procedure and the seal by the Minister of Justice. As I have already indicated, the implementation of that law requires a manual review of all the dossiers concerned. A review of such size requires accurate end-to-end preparation. Implementation will have to take place in two stages. During the second phase, each dossier will have to go through several steps. In the first phase, current pension applications will need to be adapted and tested intensively. In the second phase the individual pension files will be dealt with. This treatment consists of several steps, such as the search for historical data according to a still to be determined order, manual and individual pension calculations and the calculation of individual balances and validation. At the end of this phase, the persons concerned will receive a new pension decision. I would like to stress that any revision should be integrated into the existing work schedules for ongoing pension projects and processes without prejudice to other right holders. In addition, for a long period, sufficient VTEs must be released which have the necessary expertise. The proposal to recruit new staff is therefore not a good idea. It takes months before a new staff member has acquired the necessary knowledge to be productive. Working with interim staff or short-term contracts is therefore completely excluded. In short, the Federal Pension Service faces a major operational challenge that should not be underestimated and undertakes to meet it with due attention within a reasonable time span, spread over 2020 and 2021. In the context of the negotiations on the new governance agreement, the FPD has submitted a question with a view to obtaining the necessary appropriations of EUR 150,000 in 2021 to address this challenge.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u20	Madam President, Minister, it is very important for miners to know when this correction will take place and when they will receive that higher pension supplement. They had to wait 30 years for this because there was a mistake in the royal decree and that this was applied by the Federal Pension Service. I understand that the Federal Pension Service is committed to doing the work in the course of 2020 and 2021 and that all miners will receive by the end of 2021 to which they are entitled because the necessary appropriations have been requested. I therefore hope that the Federal Pension Service will receive these credits so that, after all these years, miners will finally receive what they are entitled to and for which they have paid contributions. I understand that expertise is needed to reconstruct and correct these complex dossiers historically and that this should not be at the expense of other pensioners. If the miners get the perspective that by the end of 2021 they will all get their supplement retroactively on their account, they will be very satisfied.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u21	It's a good thing that clarity is here now. This will be done by the end of 2021 at the latest. Prior to that, Spring 2021 was also communicated. It must be very clear, but it must also be very clear that it has no effect on retroactivity. The law introduced the law on 1 January 2011. The retroactivity is the same for everyone, whether it will be early 2021 or end 2021. It is very important that we communicate that well to all miners who are waiting. I would add that the miners themselves have a huge archive of the historical data you are looking for. They've already reached out to work with you on that. I'd definitely take that outstretched hand. That will save a lot of search time for your services. I propose that we, together with Mrs Vanrobaeys, submit this question at regular intervals, so that the miners know that the dossiers are certainly not being postponed and that we will all fight for them and work very hard to give what they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u22	Madam President, my question concerns an old IGO control procedure. Isn't the question better merged with the list of other similar questions? It's no big deal for me, but that seems a little easier to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u23	I did the same thinking when I read the titles, but as it is not done, I do not know whether this was provided for in the minister's responses. [[No.]] It is easier then to follow the order. The answers are distinct. Mrs. Vanrobaeys, you can ask your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in reply to your written question No. 66 on the temporary suspension of the IGO checks following the corona crisis, I indicated that a restart of the checks could take place at the earliest in the third phase of the exit strategy. As you know, this phase entered into force on 8 June last. However, I have decided not to reboot the control procedures, as the target group of these controls is a risk group for the corona virus. If the postman has not been able to issue the residence permit to the person concerned on one of his three regular visits, the person concerned must go to the municipality within five working days. However, many municipal administrations still operate only by appointment, which could lead to the person concerned not being able to go to the town hall within the prescribed time limit. So I asked the Federal Pension Service to suspend the residence checks until the end of August. An evaluation of the health situation and the real situation on the ground will be carried out by the FPD to see whether a restart will be possible from September onwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is true, this concerns vulnerable elderly people who belong to the risk group for the corona virus. Hence my question as to how long the checks will be suspended. I understand that it is already clear that this will be until the end of August, but on the other hand the Federal Pension Service will then, at the end of August too, make an assessment of the situation on the ground to determine whether checks should be suspended any longer. Frankly, I believe, together with poverty organisations, that as long as there is social discrimination and as long as measures are taken to reduce the corona virus, checks should be suspended. After all, this is a risk group which is more at risk of contamination anyway. As you say yourself, there are still measures in place, such as for example in the town hall can only be reached by appointment. I don't think those people find it easy to send their letters through the post office either. We also do not know what situation they are in: with other health problems they may still be in lockdown. I know risk patients who, due to their state of health, are virtually still in lockdown. It's important for them to have certainty. I wonder when exactly that evaluation will be carried out. I hope that it is not the same as yesterday's situation with the fairgrounds, where a ministerial decision is published that comes in today and requires people to prepare themselves at all costs. Will this evaluation be carried out in mid- or late-August or perhaps not until September? Those concerned must know whether the checks will be further suspended in September and/or October. Minister, you will probably already have heard that Parliament is discussing a legislative proposal to adjust the controls in the long term, so that they would be a little more humane. It would be nice if the state of health allowed, the suspension would be in line with the more human approach of the IGO controls.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u26	Mrs Vanrobaeys, on the basis of the Federal Pension Service's analysis, a regulatory change appears necessary for the equivalence of the periods of foster leave in the employees' pension. However, this change cannot take place during this period of current cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u27	Minister, the status of this government is sometimes rather peculiar. It's a special situation. Maybe we can agree on that. I understood that there were no more pending cases, but a power of attorney government with full authority. I have already asked the previous government of current cases about the equivalence of foster leave for pensions. The KB and the regulations are simply ready and prepared by the Federal Pension Service. This has not actually been the case by the previous government with full authority. I thought this was a KB we could run anyway. I think this is very important for foster parents. I think foster parents have an important social commitment. They give future opportunities to children from a vulnerable or difficult family situation. I think this commitment should be appreciated. I am sorry, therefore, that it is taking so long to achieve equality of pensions for foster parents. The lyrics are ready. I don't think it's that hard. It would be easy if it were to happen by the government, but if this continues to drag on, I will take an initiative myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u28	Mr Minister, it is reported that there is no automatic pension calculation for a number of people: for the years in which they have worked as an official, especially in military employment, there would be no bet data available to the Federal Pension Service. However, for those persons all the data of the mixed career are known, only the revenues as military are unknown. Mr. Secretary, are you aware of this? If so, how many files are we dealing with? Isn't it strange that the Federal Pension Service can't find out how much someone has earned in the military during their career for the calculation of the pension?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u29	Mrs Samyn, (...) that it is impossible to carry out an automatic pension calculation for some people with mixed careers. More specifically, these are persons, often former military, who left the public service before 2011 and who will thus be entitled to what is called a deferred pension for their service years in the public sector. For the statutory staff employed at the beginning of the CAPELO project in 2011, the public sector employers were only required to enter the statutory staff data for the period from 1 January 2006. For the statutory staff who were no longer employed in 2011 and who will thus be entitled to a deferred pension, there was no obligation to report. The files were handled manually. In the event of missing data, they were requested from the former employers at the time of the pension application. In view of the harmonisation of the conditions for early retirement and the development of the simulation tool for the future pension amount on pension.be, a lack of registration of the data is no longer justified. The FPD, in cooperation with Sigedis, is therefore trying to proactively identify former statutory staff in order to ask employers to introduce the missing data. According to the estimate provided by the Federal Pension Service, 24,024 persons are involved in the problem. About 60% of the files relate to career years performed in the Defense Department. Of the remaining 40 %, 14 % HR-Rail, 2 % the Flemish Ministry of Education, 2 % the Flemish Government, 2 % the Department of Education of the French Community, 1.5 % the Federal Police and 1.3 % bpost.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u30	Minister, I understand from your reply that the figures will only be released at the time of the pension application. It is good to hear that the Federal Pension Service will proactively introduce the missing data for the approximately 24,000 data subjects. Thank you for your answer and thanks to the Federal Pension Service for the proactivity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u31	Madam President, I would first like to wish you a very happy birthday. Minister, a few Saturdays ago the super core decided on a number of additional support measures in the context of the corona crisis. One of them is the six-time €50 premium for recipients of an income guarantee for the elderly. This is, on the one hand, a good measure and, on the other hand, it remains totally inadequate because even with the additional EUR 50 for six months, benefits are still well below the poverty line. Minister, what remains to be done in order to implement the aid scheme for persons with an income guarantee? What's the status? When I submitted the question, I also asked about the modalities. I wanted to know what six months it was for, but in the meantime I understand that the other benefits are for the months of July to December. So I suppose this also applies to the IGO. You have already given a clear answer to Mr Vanrobaeys' question about the suspension of the control procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u32	Mrs Willaert, thank you for your wishes. I'll remember spending a year with the Minister of Pensions. I don't know if I have to see a sign of how old it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u33	Madam President, Mrs Willaert, I would like to inform you that the Royal Decree on the introduction of this premium was approved by the Council of Ministers on 26 June last. Meanwhile, the decision was signed by the King. It will be published in the course of the next few days. All GRAPA beneficiaries will therefore automatically benefit from this premium, regardless of whether they receive the basic amount or the increased basic amount. The premium will be paid for the first time at the end of July. From August onwards, it will be paid at the same time as GRAPA. Since it is granted for six months, the last premium will be paid in December. As regards your questions concerning the suspension of residence checks, I would refer you to the answer I gave just now to Mrs Vanrobaey's question on the same subject. With regard to the question put to me by Mrs Thémont, I would point out that the decision of these six times fifty euros does not come from the Council of Ministers but rather from Kern+10. The terms of the amount and the duration of the premium were determined by kern+10. The latter did not foresee an extension of this measure beyond December 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. The file is very important. As I pointed out in my question, that bonus is a good thing. Indeed, life has become more expensive for people in different ways during the corona crisis. We are certainly calling for a continued assessment of the impact of more expensive life, especially on people in poverty, in order to see whether such a measure may need to be extended. We will have to evaluate that. Moreover, as I pointed out in my question, Parliament must continue to work hard to bring benefits far below the poverty line to the poverty line. For us, that is number one in the ranking of what needs to be done. With regard to the control procedure, I fully support Mrs Vanrobaeys. You know our opinion on the control procedure. We have had and will continue to have this debate. After all, there is now a legislative proposal by Mrs Lanjri which wants to make a number of important improvements to the procedure. We will work to ensure that these improvements are also effective. As Mrs Vanrobaeys said earlier, it is also my question to evaluate this very carefully. For us, too, the procedure should be suspended, as long as social discrimination applies and because it concerns vulnerable groups. We ask you to work on this in good time so that those concerned do not get the news from one day to the next that the procedures are being restarted, but that they know this sufficiently in advance. As long as the social-distanting measures are in place, it seems to us much better to leave those concerned at ease for health reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u35	Madam President, I have not asked the question yet, but I have the impression that the minister has already answered it. May I ask my question?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u36	Yes, I suggest you put it down. This is not an enclosed question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u37	Indeed, she was not attached. Minister, the crisis that we have just been through has plunged many Belgians into precariousness. As for those who were already in this situation before confinement, their daily lives have become even more difficult. I stress the work and measures taken to stimulate consumption in the sectors affected by the crisis. The recovery continues. In particular, I welcome the principle of a supplementary social assistance measure for social beneficiaries, in the form of 50 euros per month for six months. Nevertheless, according to the Federation of Social Services, this amount is too low and should be revised upwards at an additional €200 per month. Minister, what criteria did you use to determine this amount of 50 euros? Will this amount be added automatically to the GRAPA amount? Do you intend, if necessary, to extend this aid beyond December 2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u38	Ms. Thémont, have you had the opportunity to hear the Minister's answers to these questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u39	I heard, at some point, a mention of the 50 euros. That's why I logged in. I heard my name.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u40	That's what I thought. Can we then resume? Thank you, Minister. It makes things easier.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u41	Madam President, Mrs Thémont, as I have indicated, the Royal Decree of Special Powers establishing this premium was approved by the Council of Ministers on 17 June. It will be published shortly at the Moniteur belge. It's about six times 50 euros. As for the terms and the decision of the above amount, I refer the question to you since it was indeed the Kern+10 who adopted them, with the agreement of all parties – including the Socialist Party – that participated. As far as the question of whether this premium is sufficient is concerned, I will reply that it is a circumstantial premium that is part of the measures to support purchasing power linked to the coronavirus crisis. This does not, of course, preclude further reflection on the upgrading of the lowest allowances and on the effective fight against poverty throughout the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answer. My group is indeed part of the Kern+10 and we supported this proposal. We had also tabled a text aimed at introducing a premium of EUR 200 per month. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is really necessary to increase the allowances to enable them to be above the poverty line. As you pointed out, this is really a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u43	Madam President, Minister, the process for controlling GRAPA beneficiaries by factors, which was put in place on July 1, 2019, was suspended during the containment period, which is a very good thing. We hope that this monitoring procedure, which has been in force for exactly one year, will be thoroughly reviewed. Minister, what are you planning on doing this? Before the confinement, it was intended that you would present to us in the Committee on Social Affairs the evaluation of this monitoring procedure. This could not be done, given the events related to VOCID-19. Minister, could you please reveal a few conclusions or send documents to parliamentarians? It would be useful for our work. Furthermore, are you in favour of a review of this monitoring procedure? Have you ever been able to identify criteria that you think are important? In the Committee on Social Affairs, Mrs Nahima Lanjri has presented us with a proposal for a law reviewing this monitoring procedure. The debate is whole and that is very good because we are really looking for reform in depth. Minister, what are your criteria? Do you intend to do a job in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u44	Mr Vanden Burre, as I told Mrs Vanrobaeys, I decided to extend the suspension of checks until the end of August. The situation will obviously be reassessed before this term, to find out where we are in the health crisis. With regard to the evaluation of the new screening procedure for GRAPA beneficiaries, the General Administrator of the Federal Pension Service (SFP) was able to present the first results to this Commission on 3 March. This evaluation was validated by the SFP Management Committee at the end of April due to the health crisis. If you wish, I will ask him to pass it on to the members of the committee. The results are positive, according to the SFP expression, which finds that on average the residence certificate was given by the factor to GRAPA beneficiaries in 78% of cases. Furthermore, the SFP notes that the vast majority of those to whom the certificate could not be delivered and who had therefore to go to the municipality were able to meet the five working days deadline. In addition, the evaluation shows that, despite the significant increase in the number of controlled beneficiaries, the number of suspensions and, more significantly, the number of unjustified suspensions have decreased significantly. Compared to 2018 figures, the number of unjustified suspensions of controlled beneficiaries decreased from 12.95 % to 1.28%. These figures therefore clearly demonstrate that the objective of the new procedure, which was to reduce the number of unjustified suspensions, is almost fully achieved. With regard to the improvement of the procedure, the SFP is examining the possibility of setting up a data exchange system in order to exclude persons admitted to a hospital or a care or revalidation centre. These are data that are not currently available, nor were they available under the old procedure. The SFP is also examining the possibility of asking the municipality to register, via a computer system, the fact that the beneficiary came to the municipality within five working days in order to exempt him from the removal by post of the certificate of residence, thereby reducing the administrative burden on the citizen. A working group has also been set up to launch a new information campaign for all GRAPA beneficiaries. A brochure for professionals explaining the procedure has also been prepared by the SFP. In collaboration with bpost, awareness of the factors of the waiting time during attempts to deliver the certificate of residence was also realized.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic224x.u45	Thank you, Minister. I think it is indeed a good thing that the evaluation can be made available. So thank you in advance for sending it to the Members. Some positive elements emerge from your answer. I am thinking in particular of raising awareness of the factors involved in waiting times and contacts with the beneficiaries of GRAPA, who are elderly people in precarious situations. They are therefore extremely fragile audiences. The numbers you give with regard to unjustified suspensions are decreasing, which is a good thing. I will look at this in detail, but it remains that for us, in the very process of monitoring, beyond the objectives, certain things need to be thoroughly reformed and that is what we will be working on in the discussions in committee. I think it's interesting that there are leads for the SFP to give its opinion and criteria. In any case, our objective remains clearly to review this monitoring procedure in the light of the returns to the ground that we have had. In any case, let us try to move forward constructively and, above all, to find a structural solution by the end of August if the health situation does not change. We will not have to drag our thoughts and work on it. I thank you, in any case, for these figures and the first conclusions of the report.
