ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-17-55-plenair-ip029x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-17-55-plenair-ip029x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of today's Conference of Presidents, I propose that you approve the amended agenda for this week's sittings. In accordance with the opinion of today's Conference of Presidents, I propose that you approve the amended agenda for this week's meetings. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-17-55-plenair-ip029x.u3	The next item is the government statement. The next item is the government statement. The Prime Minister has the floor. I call the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-17-55-plenair-ip029x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning the government took an oath to the King. It was a solemn and important moment, given the serious situation in which we find ourselves. The most unusual way in which Parliament now works is proof of this. That's why I'm standing here before you today, ladies and gentlemen. I am fully committed to the task ahead of us. At present, the world, Europe and Belgium are going through a period without precedent. COOVID-19 is a serious threat to the health of the population. It requires unprecedented and exceptional measures to protect our people. For that, we need to work together in national unity, hand in hand. The relationship between Parliament and government must be strong. It must be forged in mutual trust. In the face of the extreme urgency of the situation, it became clear to a vast majority of parties in this assembly that a government should be invested as soon as possible. This great union is, I think, up to the current situation – a situation that healthcare staff live on the front line when they receive and take care of our patients. These women and men remain mobilized despite difficult circumstances. Their dedication is remarkable and their courage is exemplary. They're not alone. Whether in the public or private sector, many of our citizens are continuing their daily work to ensure that Belgium continues to function. They do it because they are invested with a sense of duty, while they are for the most part worried. We know that and we are infinitely grateful for it. All these people must inspire us daily and give us a sense of responsibility, both individually and collectively. They must make us aware of the absolute need to respect the rules, not to endanger ourselves or to infect others, and thus take the risk that our hospital services become oversaturated. We are all affected by this pandemic, without distinction. It is now up to us to show discernment, civilism and solidarity. The evolution of VOCID-19 in our country is monitored day by day, hour by hour by hour by our services, as has been the case for several weeks. Our first priority remains to find ways to ensure all staff resources so that hospitals can concentrate on the sole task of caring for the sick. The Government and all the authorities responsible for the care chain are also mobilized on the issue of the availability of medical equipment and devices. We are in constant discussion with our scientific and medical experts, but also with the Crisis Centre in order to better understand the situation and make the right decisions at the right time. In this regard, I would like to inform you that, from the end of this session, Kern and I will be meeting with the federated entities, the ministers and the competent departments within the National Security Council to evaluate the latest report of the Risk Management Group and to take the necessary additional steps quickly to preserve the health of all our citizens. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we know that decisions also have a clear socio-economic impact. That is why we have already taken a first set of measures and are working on measures to address the impact as far as possible for all economic operators. To this end, a macroeconomic monitoring group, the ERMG or Economic Risk Management Group, has been established. The group should better identify the economic and social consequences of the pandemic for businesses and for the people working. Belgium has assets that we will have to play out. I have every confidence that everyone will do the same. This government in day-to-day affairs took a direct view of the situation in Belgium in relation to the pandemic. We acted. Our actions in the fight against the virus will be all the more strong as they will be widely supported. Our first priority was to bring together the different levels of power. It was in this spirit that we quickly set up regular meetings of the Consultation Committee. We have also taken steps to include the Ministers-Presidents in the National Security Council. The consultation with the federated entities was important from the beginning of the events, and here I commend the heads of the federated entities for the decisive role they play in our country's response to the pandemic. Today we need a stable parliamentary majority to fight this virus together. My team and I realise that the agreement reached last Sunday by a majority of the political parties in our country has a great responsibility. This unit is based on an essential principle: giving the current government, through a vote of confidence, the full capacity to successfully manage this crisis. For example, we undertake to manage the health situation during the coronavirus crisis, to manage and maintain public order, but also to alleviate the socio-economic problems of wage-earners and the self-employed. We are presenting a vote on the provisional twelfths with only one amendment, in particular an interdepartmental commission of EUR 1 billion to be used exclusively for combating the coronavirus. We must also prepare, step by step, economic developments and economic revival as soon as this crisis is over. These objectives can be achieved through the use of six-month mandates, with a three-month review, in the field of public health, social affairs, including labour law security, and the economy. These are all issues which will be clarified and refined with the various representatives of the political parties before they are, of course, put to the vote in the Chamber of Representatives. The performance of the power of attorney shall in any event be checked by the Chamber at the end of this period. Since this is an exceptional situation, I have also proposed that the nuclear cabinet should meet regularly and, whenever necessary, also come together with the representatives of the parties that have committed themselves to ensure the transparency of the implementation of the powers of attorney. The confidence between Parliament and this government must be confirmed by a formal vote of a motion on Thursday. This vote will enable the government to exercise its prerogatives in full. We will be loyal to this trust in the light of the fight against the coronavirus and within the framework I have just outlined. In addition, I will be asking for Parliament's confidence again in six months' time at the latest. As a result, we will not go beyond the framework of current affairs for the issues outside this crisis. In the long term, the intention must remain to form a federal government with a parliamentary majority in favour of a global and positive project for our country. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is time for unity and assembly. This gathering is beyond the ranks of this assembly. It is a whole country that must ally itself in this ordeal. The national union does not decree a Sunday evening; it is built every day and every hour in these difficult times. Political formations must be worthy of the agreement reached, by systematically opting for dialogue, constructive approaches and the meaning of measuring events. You will be able to count at all times on the attention of this government to all the ideas of reform, all the measures and all the constructive proposals designed to contribute to this national effort. Together, we must now prove every day that we are going beyond the sterile ideological quarrels in which we have lost too much in recent months. As I told you at the outset of this statement, I stand before you, aware of the context that brings me there, but also more determined than ever, with a simple and unique objective: to protect the health of our people. This is not a programme point; it is our most fundamental duty. We will fill it, I hope, with the confidence of this Parliament. Thank you. Dank u.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-17-55-plenair-ip029x.u5	Colleagues, I received a motion of confidence from the Prime Minister at 2:31 p.m., which reads: "The government is asking for the confidence of the House." We cannot vote on this text until 48 hours (art. 140, No. 6, Rgt.). Therefore, we will not be able to vote on the motion of confidence at the earliest Thursday at 2:31 p.m. Colleagues, I received a motion of confidence from the Prime Minister at 2:31 p.m. It reads as follows: 'The government demands the trust of the Chamber'. We cannot vote on this question earlier than in 48 hours, from today and this hour (Art. 140, No. 6, Rgt.). We can therefore vote on the motion of confidence at 2:31 p.m. on Thursday at the earliest. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents today, I propose that we meet in plenary for the discussion of the Government's statement on Thursday from 10.15 a.m. In accordance with the opinion of today's Conference of Presidents, I propose that the Government's statement be discussed in plenary on Thursday from 10.15 a.m. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 10:15 a.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Thursday 19 March 2020 at 10.15 a.m.
