ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u1	The topical and urgent debate allows groups which have not tabled a question to take the floor, if they so wish, for a maximum of two minutes. I recall the Rules of Procedure: two minutes for the speaker, five minutes for the Government and two minutes for the speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u2	Mr Minister, since 1 July 2019 postmen from Bpost have been called in to check the conditions of residence of people receiving IGO benefits. It's a contract signed between the Federal Pension Service and bpost. In mid-January, we received an opinion from the Data Protection Authority, the former Privacy Commission. It states that one cannot see the legal basis on which one can allow bpost to require his identity card from the beneficiary of an IGO benefit, in the context of the abovementioned verification of actual residence. The law provides that only the government and officials can require the presentation of an identity card and gives the King the power to determine which one. Bpost and its staff are not government or civil servants within the meaning of this Article. The Authority further notes that the Royal Decree of 24 April 2014 regulating the postal service shows that bpost has only the right to verify the identity of persons in the context of its services relating to registered consignments. The Authority considers that it is up to the Federal Pension Service and Bpost to analyse this new control procedure in the light of those questions. We've already heard from Minister Bacquelaine that he's also investigating the request of the Data Protection Authority internally at the Federal Pension Service. We have been informed that you are also doing this within your own legal service. Minister, what is the opinion of your Legal Service on the opinion? Do you intend to modify the KB? Are there any changes needed at the level of the Federal Pension Service? Besides, is it worth the cabbage? We have no idea how much the contract with bpost is worth. We cannot compare this with any benefits that are rightly paid or taken back. It remains very difficult to exercise our parliamentary control in this respect and to evaluate this measure. This is therefore a question that remains unanswered.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u3	Mr President, Mr Minister, as you know, the control of seniors benefiting from GRAPA by factors gives rise to many questions and positions within society. This is our case, and we have already asked you about it in committee. My colleague Evita Willaert also asked your colleague Daniel Bacquelaine, Minister of Pensions. I would like to ask you in relation to the opinion given on 17 January by the Data Protection Authority, which considers that this measure introduced since July 2019 "does not perceive what legal basis may enable bpost to request from the beneficiary of GRAPA his identity card in the context of the aforementioned effective residence control". You have reacted in the press, saying, and here I quote: "Our legal department will examine the opinion of the Data Protection Authority in order to check whether the elements on which it is based are correct. If so, there will be either amendments to the Royal Decree or changes to the SFP, the Federal Pension Service." I would like to hear your Legal Service's opinion today on the matter and how you intend to react to it. Do you intend to suspend the control performed by the factors or amend the Royal Order? I also agree with my colleague Willaert's request in relation to the bpost commercial contract: it is important that we have the figures. As parliamentarians, we have received part of the contract, but not the cost part. I can understand that this contract contains confidential clauses: we could possibly receive these figures through a limited or other consultation organised by the chairman of the committee. In order to allow us to have a more comprehensive reflection on the controls of GRAPA beneficiaries, we need to know the cost of these controls to the community and we are entitled to them as parliamentarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u4	I don't see Mrs. Vindevoghel, but I'm told she's coming. If other colleagues or groups wish to speak, they can do so for two minutes – one speaker per group. Are there any other applications for intervention on GRAPA? (...) : (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u5	Minister, the income guarantee for 75-plus-young people with a very low pension is about 110,000 people. Often these are single women who do not have a full pension. A third of these people are over 80 years of age. Those concerned are very concerned about the checks and feel endorsed. This is a very vulnerable group of older people who are not even above the poverty line with the IGA. Their right has been subject to increasing conditions for a number of years and their freedom of movement is now even more restricted by the sharp controls. Since July, strict controls have been introduced, restricting the freedom of people with an IGO to travel abroad, but also to move within Belgium. Any transfer abroad and any stay in Belgium for more than three weeks, they will now have to report to the Pension Service. If this does not happen, the benefit can be suspended for a month. The Pension Service concluded a contract with bpost for this. A postman of bpost now comes by at least once a year on any date. If one does not open the door, the mailman will come by two more times within 21 days. If you are not at home again or the door does not open on these further visits, the postman puts a residence certificate with an accompanying letter in the mailbox. This must then be signed within five working days at the town hall and then sent to the Pension Service. This is therefore a very short period of time to ensure that the IGA is not suspended. We are now receiving a lot of reports from postmen and women who have to carry out the checks but have not received proper training for this purpose. Workers in the field often do not know the difference between a registered shipment and an IGO check. Mr Minister, how are these postmen and women informed by bpost regarding the IGO control? Are they getting an education for this? For delivering a registered letter, they get 80 seconds. How much time does a mailman get to run an IGO check?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u6	Minister, this is not the first debate we have, but it was more with the Minister of Pensions. Our group, through me, wanted to seek the opinion of the Data Protection Authority because we are asking ourselves questions, for example, about how bpost is aware of the identity of the GRAPA beneficiaries and their main address. Is this mechanism necessary and is its legal basis proportionate to the objective pursued? Who is responsible for data processing? Are all legal guarantees respected? The opinion is well known. The Autorité says the SFP has to deal with this data problem. What conclusions do you draw from this opinion? You are responsible for the protection of privacy. Do you intend to suspend the Royal Order and the mechanism? Do you intend to suspend the de facto check? Could we, through a data room system, be aware of the entire contract between the SFP and bpost?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u7	Thank you for all your questions. It is not the first time we have talked about this. I would like to make it very clear that I am talking about an income guarantee for the elderly (IGO). That's a benefit, not a pension. The IGA is intended to assist a number of people through the assistance. Those are people who are getting low pensions today. The only condition for obtaining an IGO is that the person concerned stays on Belgian territory. I hope that we at least agree that controls are necessary. Otherwise, every European can come to Belgium, apply for an IGO, fly back and receive the IGO for the rest of his life. No one wants that. Today the checks are done by letter. People have to fill out that letter, have it stamped at City Hall and then send it back. That's the old situation. This means that people over 85 or 90 years of age who receive a letter must go to the town hall, have the letter stamped and then send it back. That's the old system. The system that has been in place for a number of months brings the mailman, who offers the letter to the people concerned, to identify the people on the basis of their identity card, as with a normal registered letter. If this happens correctly, those people are indicated in the system as present and the problem is solved. Then the IGO is granted and not withdrawn. In fact, the system, especially for older people, has become much easier. If someone is not at home a number of times, a letter will be effectively left behind, and the former system will be applied again. The principle of checks that is in place today is a much more social, user-friendly, customer-oriented system than the previous system. That seems to me to be a step forward. I hope we can all agree on that, too? There has been a number of discussions on whether there is sufficient legal basis to grant this assignment from the Pension Service to bpost. There has been a request to the Data Protection Authority, but I believe that the latter has been informed incompletely. In addition, she refused to hear the bpost arguments, which I really regret. I think we need to hear both sides. The opinion is based on impartial information because the Authority's description does not correspond to what is actually happening on the bpost side. What does the Data Protection Authority say? First of all, the legal basis. There are several ways to exchange data between the Federal Pension Service and bpost, to allow bpost to deliver the mail delivery effectively to the right person. We do not seem to have any difficulty in settling this contract or even in the context of the public objective, which is also a data processing ground of the GDPR. In this respect, there is absolutely no problem in terms of legal basis. Secondly, the Data Protection Authority says that the mailman not only checks the identity card or the actual person to whom the correspondence is delivered, but also checks the accuracy of the document. Of course, that's not true. All the mailman does is see if the registered writing is delivered effectively to the right person. At that time, the person may even refuse to display his identity card. The postman will then note that the correspondence was not delivered and will then be passed on systematically to the Federal Pension Service that the correspondence could not be delivered. That is how the system works in reality and I do not see any problem with this procedure at all. This is exactly what has been published in the media and what has recently been confirmed by Minister Baquelaine. Firstly, we fully support this system because we believe it is much more social, clearer, more transparent and easier for people who receive an IGO. Secondly, I hope that now that we have been able to provide a number of elements that we will also provide to the Data Protection Authority, the latter, after having all the necessary information, will review its advice and will recognise that there is really no problem with the GDPR. If that is the case, we intend to amend, if necessary, the necessary royal or ministerial decisions. However, we believe that this is not the case and we have also delivered our reasoning to the Data Protection Authority. That is in short the situation today and also the position of Mr Baquelaine and myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u8	Minister, I do not think you are fully aware of the previous procedure. After all, you say that people aged 85 or 90 no longer have to go to the town hall because the postman comes to see if they are at home and if everything is okay. In the past, however, checks stopped when they were 80 years old. People aged 80 and over were just left alone. That is my first point. Secondly, when it came to asking for the identity card, you actually reduced it to delivering a letter. However, if someone is suspended, the Federal Pension Service goes back to the moment when the postman did not find that person at home for the first time. That element, the postman who does not find this person at home, is therefore used in what one might call a social investigation to determine the moment of suspension. So this is more than just asking for the identity card in the context of an exchange of letters. This is, after all, linked with major consequences, to the loss of the benefit. So far, I have not received an answer from you. However, it is a fundamental question that everyone is asking, including the Data Protection Authority and the more than 40 organisations that are protesting against it. We are still not getting an answer to that. So it's not as short and simple as you just mentioned in your answer. We will continue to fight this measure because we are convinced that a bazooka is being shot at a mosquito. There is much more to be gained from other people in this country than from this most vulnerable group of pensioners.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u9	Minister, your answer is a little... if I say "dead," you won't be surprised. A notice is given; you say that they have not understood, that they will be asked for a new opinion and that it will be in order. I understand your answer like that. What is the point of having independent authorities, made up of specialists and experts who follow this closely? It's really answering next door! There's a real problem in the field. We all said it. The fact that this is the factors is not right! Today, enormous stress is caused to people who no longer dare to open their door to the mailman. We cannot live in such a society! We receive such testimonies. You can blow or look at the sky! Yesterday, a demonstration brought together 150 people and 40 organizations. You have to be able to answer the problem. The factors perform this control, because control is there. Why? They have to look at the ID. From the moment the ID card is correct or not, they make a decision to leave or not. But this decision has an impact, since after that, the person will no longer have GRAPA if he or she is absent more than three times. This is considered a sanction. That's the difficulty. Yes, there is a consequence to the opinion taken by the factor. Certainly, in the end, the person can always go to the communal house. But before that, it is still the factor that makes a decision that leads to that. We cannot deny that there is a form of control. If we say that it is normal that there should be such control, we believe that it should be completely reconsidered. Here, it's completely disproportionate. It's actually killing a fly with a bazooka. Above all, it is to make the factors play a role which they do not want to play and which is completely counterproductive in relation to the societal role they have for our citizens. On the contract, you didn't answer. I think the cost of monitoring is still important in this debate, if we are to rethink control in its entirety.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u10	Minister, there are a few questions to which you have not answered at all. So you did not give a clear answer about the training of the postmen. Secondly, how much time do these people get for such a visit? Yesterday I was present at the action. There it has been shown that someone with a disability, someone in a wheelchair or walking with crutches, has only 68 seconds to come down to receive that letter. How's that gonna work out? The postal people already have almost no time to do everything they have to do. What will happen to that? So you have not answered at all the question of the time given to postmen for this task.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u11	Minister, I also think that you are not responding to a number of issues, including the time and training of postmen. Firstly, I would like to stress that the former control system did not control 80-plussers. So it's not true at all that 95-year-olds had to go to town hall early. Secondly, I regret that you say that the Data Protection Authority misunderstood you. I don't know about that. In the new procedure, the mailman comes by for the first time, but leaves nothing behind. The second time he comes along within a period of 21 days and again he leaves nothing behind. Only the third time he leaves something in the mailbox to let you know that he's already stopped by three times. Then you can take that note to the town hall within five days to have your conditions of residence confirmed. Then you have five days to send your residence certificate to the Federal Pension Service. If you do not, because you are in hospital, for example, if this happens, your IGO will be suspended until the day of the first check of the postman. This means that the benefit of vulnerable seniors, who are really dependent on them to survive, is suspended on the basis of a determination of a postman, without those people being aware of it and without knowing when that postman came along for the very first time. That's what makes seniors so anxious. That's why they don't dare to go to the market anymore, which is why they still have difficulty getting out. They think they're gonna miss that first checkup. I think the Data Protection Authority is right. This is not only contrary to privacy, but also contrary to the Charter of Social Insurance. This means that the insured person must be heard before such a decision is taken. The person concerned must be able to defend himself. It can actually only happen after a month is between it, and not twice five days. That control procedure certainly needs to be adjusted. However, this does not alter the fact that other control methods can be found within reasonable limits to verify compliance with the conditions of residence of the IGO.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u12	Minister, I have the feeling that, with this control of GRAPA beneficiaries, we are reliving the same debate we had in the previous Parliament on the data matching of electricity bills. The image of bazooka to kill the fly was already used. This whole mountain of procedures is collapsing. You tell us about the Data Protection Authority, which depends on you and that you have put in place, that it is misinformed, and that its information is biased. An external authority cannot be set up and criticized when the opinion it gives does not go in the direction of the government. This statement is quite serious. For people, the fact that the factors cannot leave a notice of passage from the first and second passages is a problem for me. Finally, people feel under house arrest. Even travelling within their countries, to see their children or for reasons of health care to be received, may expose them to unfair sanctions under this mechanism. I think like others we'll have to see him again. The debate is not closed and we will have hearings in the Committee on Social Affairs and other debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u13	I will close this first topical debate. Unless you have any further answers, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u14	Mr President, there are still elements that I could add.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u15	I didn't know you still wanted to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u16	The Authority does not depend on me. It depends on Parliament. She's independent. I find it strange that she refused to hear the other side. We had in-depth discussions, with Mr Vanden Burre and others, specifically around recourse to the Authority, where it was word for word. Here, I think the least I can do would be to hear each other and look at the different information that is available to the Federal Pensions and Bpost Service. That is a first element: the Data Protection Authority must assess this in full independence. I also have a different hat, namely that of Minister of Privacy. Of course, it is a matter of procedure to ensure that there is a word and a reply and that the information is based on correct information. If there are things that are pertinently incorrect and do not correspond to the practice, but also to the legal basis that is followed, I have questions. As I said in my reply, when the GBA finally comes to the conclusion that a legal basis needs to be changed or adapted, I will do so together with my colleague Mr Bacquelaine. I come to a second element. Since the entire system of control of the IGO is not fundamentally different from the delivery of a recommandé, additional information has been given to the postmen about the content and expectations. However, no additional training has taken place because the procedure is exactly the same, with the same timing, with the 80-second rule. In this respect, information has been given to the postmen, it has been made clear what it is about, but it is about the same procedure and the same framework as when a recommandé was issued. Finally, we have seen for a number of months now that there are far fewer suspensions. One can say that the whole system must be put on the shovel, as people were not previously controlled. I think it makes sense that there are controls, but I think it makes sense that all people who get an IGO have the opportunity to be checked. An evaluation is now under way, organized by Minister Bacquelaine. It will perhaps be able to answer a number of questions in more depth, such as the amount of this control. I leave it to Mr Bacquelaine to reply after the evaluation has been completed. I've tried to point out all the elements that are important in the contract and in the relationship with bpost. I hope that I have been able to give an answer in all respects.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u17	Mr President, Minister, since the announcement of the transformation plan by ex-CEO Dominique Leroy, Proximus is still troubled. A lot of actions have already taken place. There are effectively many jobs at risk, many jobs will disappear. This happens despite the good performance of the company Proximus and despite the fact that the dividend is high. It is not very important for the employees, because it is a business profit that cannot be invested in the company and in the workforce anymore. Investment is therefore much needed. The telecoms market is a rapidly changing world, often requiring additional support in the form of training and training throughout their careers. People also require more training and guidance. Proximus, however, dismisses employees and at the same time hires people to fill open vacancies. What is wrong with the retraining of workers? The transformation plan includes, in addition to a round of dismissal, also less leave, less pay and easier dismissal for workers who are lagging behind Proximus. The customer service is seen merely as a cost post rather than as a service for Proximus customers. Customers calling for a problem will be helped from abroad. Is that how we will increase our Belgian employment rate? So we're wondering what's going on with that transformation plan. Minister, how many Proximus employees have now applied for a voluntary departure? Is that number within expectations? In which services is the number of voluntary drivers highest? Will naked layoffs be avoided thanks to sufficient voluntary departure? If the number of voluntary drivers exceeds the number of places available, how will it be determined who will and who will not be allowed to leave? In the meantime, what about the new recruitments? How many vacancies are currently available for externals?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u18	Minister, in January 2019, the management of Proximus announced the elimination of 1,900 jobs – although this number will be reduced later to 1,300 – as well as the engagement of 1,250 people in parallel. The negotiation phase began last June, with numerous blockages between management and trade unions. An early retirement plan for those over 58 was put on the table, as well as special conditions for voluntary departures. On 28 January, a social agreement was concluded between the management, the Christian union and the Liberal union. Staff representatives would have obtained that all candidates for voluntary departure whose employment is threatened by collective redundancies could leave the company. This concerns just over 1,300 people, one third of whom are eligible for pre-pension. In theory, dry layoffs would therefore be avoided. Minister, do you confirm these numbers of applications for voluntary departures? What will be the conditions for these departures? Do you confirm that dry layoffs will be avoided? What about internal mobility in terms of reorientation and requalification? Are hirings always planned in parallel? If so, how many? What profiles will be involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after the communication of the Fit-for-Purpose plan, we have taken a very long time for social dialogue. The social dialogue also came to a positive conclusion a few weeks ago, and since then the peace and quiet within the company has returned. After all, many people have responded to the proposals made by Proximus regarding voluntary departure. For example, in the context of the Fit for Purpose transformation plan, employees aged over 58 were able to leave the company for payment until their statutory retirement age. That's not a new plan, it already existed. In this context, a number of people have been asked to leave. This voluntary departure has actually led to the solution of the surplus in many of the affected areas. The people who stay today could thus be reassured a few weeks ago, just after the social agreement was concluded. This success takes place in different domains. For example, many people from the call centres have taken up this voluntary departure. All staff who have volunteered in the relevant fields can actually leave. Almost all requests can be honoured. For a very small minority of the affected areas, Proximus is moving to the requalification and offer of internal jobs. This will minimize the number of forced departures. It is clear that we are investing more than ever in internal jobs. Proximus is currently investing in initiatives already launched or new initiatives for different groups, including workers impacted and affected by the Fit for Purpose plan. There are therefore internal requalification projects with opportunities for internal mobility. It is also about workshops on the labour market and self-employed activities that can be developed. There is also an outplacement accompaniment. There is also an intervention in training programmes and there are internal job fairs in the different regions where over 800 external opportunities have been offered to 15 different employees so far. So there is real investment to guide the people who are leaving. At the same time, there is investment in internal employment and mobility. Proximus has also continued to recruit in domains that are not affected by the transformation plan. Initially, there is of course focus on the retraining pathways for internal jobs in order to reorient a maximum number of employees internally towards more forward-looking jobs. These guidance measures are being rolled out while other sub-domains continue to be recruited. As soon as the results of these various efforts are known, Proximus will also relaunch external recruitment in different fields and in future jobs, but I do not yet have precise figures. It is clear that the Fit-for-Purpose plan has clearly had its effect on the site. The voluntary departure is fully completed and a lot of investment is being made in internal reorientation and guidance of the people leaving. These are also the reasons why peace and quiet has returned to the company and one can look to the future to allow Proximus to remain a performant company.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u20	Mr Minister, that is not what lives in the workplace, because I hear very different things from the workers. People are now creating a third type of job that gets paid worse. The trade unionists themselves have stated here that they are going to be poverty jobs. This is currently a major concern for Proximus staff. I know an example of someone who went to work at Proximus for a gross wage of EUR 10.77. Is that the kind of jobs that people are going to create at Proximus? I went to look at the site of the VDAB and I saw that a lot of posts are already available to create new jobs at Proximus. So, on the one hand, people are thrown out to create new jobs that are paid worse, with worse working conditions on the other. Mr Minister, if that is the future of a public undertaking, that is not what we want.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answer. If I understand correctly, you can't confirm yet that there will be no dry layoffs. We're apparently heading towards a very limited number. We hope there will be no dismissal. I think that was the first short-term objective of the social plan. For the rest, for the other jobs created, they must be created under acceptable conditions. We will continue to follow this issue closely. I also hear that a satisfaction survey has recently been conducted among staff. I will ask another question on this as well. But this may give an objective idea of the current atmosphere within the company. All these elements must be combined to closely monitor the situation. We'll get back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u22	Minister, since May 1, 2019, as part of the corporate law reform, companies can grant a double voting right to shareholders who retain their shares for two years. This right applies to companies listed on the stock exchange. This mechanism should make it possible to retain shareholders, but also to favour those who have a long-term vision of society and its objectives to the detriment of a more speculative, short-term approach. In short, the aim is to promote the stable ownership of companies. The right to vote twice is one of the ways in which the Belgian companies concerned can be established, which is why we supported this measure at the time. In view of their structure, several companies are particularly likely to use this mechanism, for example Lotus Bakeries, Melexis, Orange Belgique, Roularta, Sioen and Proximus. Moreover, this system is particularly interesting when the main shareholder of these companies holds more than 50% of the votes. Sioen, for example, recently announced that double voting rights were on the agenda of its board of directors. On the other hand, Proximus hasn't reacted yet. Does Proximus intend to implement this new shareholder right? If so, how? What will be the timing? If not, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u23	Mr Vanden Burre, thank you for this question. The new Corporate Code allows companies to grant dual voting rights to shareholders who retain their shares for more than two years. However, this decision must be taken by the general meeting of shareholders and must therefore be approved by the majority shareholder – that is, in the case of Proximus, the Belgian State. The Board of Directors is awaiting the formation of a new government before starting this discussion. Obviously, this is a rather heavy decision. This will be the responsibility of the next government. On the other hand, I persist in saying that, for the time being, I am the UBO (effective beneficiary) of Proximus. I hope that in the future it will be the SFPI. Making strategic decisions for our actions in different entities is more meaningful. This would also objective the discussion on how and if we can activate the action with a double vote in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u24	Minister, thank you for your answer. I believe that this is indeed a debate to be conducted in the context of hypothetical government negotiations. In any case, we remain fully in favour of double voting and support this measure. As for SFPI, I think it's an interesting lead. We've already discussed it here. To see in concrete terms how we could apply this. At any rate, we are open to this discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u25	Questions Nos. 55002060C and 55002408C by Mr.Emir Kir are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u26	Mr President, I have answered Mr Jan Spooren's question No 55002179C in the current affairs debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u27	Minister, there was some noise about the possible closure of the post office in Frasnes-lez-Buissenal. In fact, it had come back to me that the bpost management had told the agents in charge of the preparatory work for the distribution of the mail and the packages that they would have to work in Ath in the near future. Following my intervention, the municipality of Frasnes responded by quoting you: there would be no complete closure of the Frasnes office. If you confirm it, it's good news. You would also have indicated that this reorganization would not have an impact on the quality of services. However, there are still questions for workers and the public. We are talking about grouping services, which means moving factors, which will lose at least one hour of their time on the road. Will their driving time be well counted in their working hours? Are you planning additional commitments to fill the time that will be lost on trips for each factor or will they still have to do better in less time? If the services are consolidated, will the post office remain at the current location in place of the Town Hall? It is a very large building to maintain only a window. Is it planned that the office will move? If so, where will he go and what of the existing building? Finally, in the context of restructuring, will opening hours be maintained or is a reduction planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u28	Ms.Dedonder, the strategic bpost plan must enable her to adapt – by making her organisation more efficient – to the evolution of the decline in volumes, in particular by generating economies of scale in terms of infrastructure, without affecting the quality of service to the population. That's clearly the point. This is why bpost has decided to reorganize the distribution network by creating sixty mail centers serving as a hub in an area composed of several communes. They organise the collection and distribution of mail and parcels, each working day. The distribution offices are therefore gradually grouped into these email centres. This reorganization, based on a long-term strategy, has been under way since 2013. In the course of March, the Frasnes distribution office will be consolidated with the Ath e-mail center. Subsequently, preparatory work for the distribution of mail and parcels from the first commune will be carried out there. This is an internal reorganization. The daily collection and distribution of mail and the delivery of newspapers will be and will remain guaranteed throughout the country – including in Frasnes. In short, the redevelopment of distribution offices will not affect the network of service points. It goes without saying that bpost continues to comply with the regulations aimed at ensuring a postal presence in the form of at least one post office in each municipality of the country. At this stage, the services at the counter – including at bpost Banque – remain in Frasnes, Place de l'Hôtel de Ville, No. 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u29	Minister, I did not get an answer to all of my questions, but you confirmed to me the continued location of the office. However, I have not received a response in relation to (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u30	If you insist, you may receive a further response.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u31	No, you gave me the answer about that. If changes occur in the opening hours or if we keep the office for a window, what will happen to the entire building because it is huge. So I'm still asking myself questions. If you tell me nothing changes, doesn't move, that the schedules won't change, I'll be satisfied.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u32	Are you confirming, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u33	No, I don't have the answer to that question. I am not in a position to answer these questions directly, but at this point, the services at the counter and bpost bank do not change. But I don't have answers for your next questions, but if you like, I will ask these questions to bpost.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u34	In that case, I would like a written answer on the details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u35	A practical test has shown that postal items with fake stamps are delivered by bpost as well as those with regular stamps. However, this was not about counterfeit stamps, but in some cases even about letters that were franked with stickers hanging on fruit. The test showed that 8 out of 10 letters with fake stamps arrived at their destination, sometimes even at the speed of a prior seal. It is also increasingly found that postal items are not stamped at the destination and that the stamps can therefore be reused. Everything points to a problem with the mail handling machines. However, this is denied by bpost, which identifies human error as cause. What exactly is the cause of the problem? What measures have already been taken or will be taken to tackle this problem? What sanctions are effectively applied to insufficient or wrongly franked postal items? How many cases were there in 2019? What income loss doesn't mean to stamp stamps per year estimated?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u36	I can see that Belgium eats reasonably well. Apparently, a lot of kiwis are eaten and then use the stickers to stick to letters. This is, of course, a serious matter. As you know, the counterfeiting of stamps or the use of counterfeit seals is included in the Criminal Code. Well, there's a few sanctions on that. It is true that the mail is automatically sorted, checked and stamped. Shipments that do not pass that automatic check are then manually checked and stamped. Of course, it is not excluded that there is a human error there, especially when it comes to peak moments. At the time those letters were sent, about 7 million shipments per day were processed. Then a human error cannot be ruled out. If insufficient or wrongly franked mail is discovered, the sender is asked to pay the remaining franking value and also the additional costs thereof. If the address of the sender is not indicated on the consignment or is not located in Belgium, the mailman will leave a message asking for the franc value and additional costs to be paid. In the absence of payment of the franc value or other charges, that shipment will not be able to be issued. If the consignment cannot still be delivered to the consignor after opening, the consignment shall be destroyed after a period starting from the date of issue of bpost, which shall be six months for registered consignments and consignments of declared value and three months for other consignments. However, no precise figures are available on the number of cases or on the loss of income associated with them. With the automatic checks, Bpost still gets the most out of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Last week a stamp of the royal family was tested and it arrived again. This really needs to be followed up. However, human mistakes can always happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u38	Mr President, Minister, during the last hearing in committee, during the discussion with the new CEO of Proximus, Mr Boutin, there was some confusion about the diploma available to him. This confusion has only grown since then. Proximus is still a public company to date, so it is crucial to ensure transparency on the recruitment procedure of the new CEO. Proximus indicated that the misunderstanding came from the communications team concerned and that it was not an error that Mr. Boutin intentionally slipped into his own CV. If Mr. Boutin did not lie on his CV, in all cases he did not take much pain to correct this erroneous information on his journey. Indeed, it is indicated since 2017 on the website of Proximus, that it had an Executive MBA. We call for full transparency in the recruitment of Mr Boutin. Have any measures been taken since then, either by Proximus or by you as the competent minister, in order to remove the doubts about Mr Boutin's diploma? If so, which ones? Can you provide the members of the House Commission with Mr Boutin's full CV, as well as a detailed report on Guillaume Boutin's recruitment procedure for the position of CEO of Proximus? Are you going to ask the board to do this as quickly as possible? Would it not be better for the state, as Proximus' first shareholder, to play a more important role in the appointment of the new CEO? Would it not be logical for the principal shareholder to have a say in the designation of the person who runs the undertaking, a fortiori when the undertaking is to provide a public service? Merci.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u39	Mr President, Minister, I shall return to this matter once again. I asked the CEO of Proximus a very simple question during the committee in which he came to introduce himself. To my great surprise, that question didn't really turn out to be that simple. The man, who earlier for an hour talked in a very quiet way and spoke freely, suddenly looked in all directions, stuttered and said that this was a very simple matter. Turns out there's a problem with the information he put on his resume. Recently it came to light that he not only gave incorrect information about his Executive MBA, but also about his internship at Roland Berger. He had written that he was a strategic consultant there, but now it turns out to be an internship. During my college years, I sold ice cream friscoes from IJsboerke on the beach. I won't put on my resume that I was a strategic consultant in marketing and sales from an international ice cream company.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u40	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u41	That's the point. You won't believe it from me. He's got a lot of people involved in his misinformation. Stefaan De Clerck, chairman of the board, said that Mr Boutin was chosen because he has international strategic experience. Of course, that played a part. I want to know what's wrong with that résumé. We know he doesn't have an Executive MBA and that he wasn't a strategic consultant, but he was an intern. How is that possible? Which headhunter agencies were appointed for this purpose? How could they have overlooked all this? I also asked for an independent investigation to thoroughly dig out the whole CV. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u42	Mr President, Minister, at the hearing of the new CEO of Proximus, Guillaume Boutin, and more specifically during the exchange on his CV, I was also surprised. Of course, I consider that a CV is fundamental in recruitment, especially when it is an important public company, a leader in Belgium in its field. However, while the CV is ultimately only part of the career path, the stored experience is equally important. As a result of this exchange, last December, Le Vif/L-Express studied the file and, according to one of his articles, Mr. Boutin would not hold a Master's degree in Business Administration from HEC Paris or an Executive MBA from INSEAD, as originally stipulated in a Proximus press release. In fact, Mr.Boutin would rather have taken a shorter training course at the institute for Vivendi's managers, where he worked at the time. Boutin replied in committee that it was indeed not an Executive MBA but rather a kind of MBA for Vivendi's management, a training program for people with high potential. Proximus stated that his new CEO did not lie about his CV, but that it would be a misinterpretation by his communications department. Proximus also claims that the new CEO's diplomas were controlled by a head-hunting firm. More recently, another article in the Vif/L-Express identified a new shadow zone for Mr.Boutin's CV. The document indicates, for the year 1999, an experience as a strategy consultant with Roland Berger. But this first work experience would actually be a three-month internship. This difference obviously raises questions. In my view, what matters here is transparency and accurate reporting. Mr Minister, I would therefore like you to clarify this matter. I sincerely believe that Proximus has other issues and challenges to address than this one. However, it is also not possible to accept potential lies or erroneous facts in the selection of the new CEO or in what has been declared by the company. Minister, I ask you to clarify this once and for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u43	Minister, we are looking forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u44	Mr President, I have taken note of the questions raised by several members of the Commission. I also sent them to Proximus. Based on the information I have received, I can give the following clarifications on the CV of the new CEO, Guillaume Boutin. After a bachelor's degree in science, Mr Boutin obtained an engineering degree in telecommunications from Télécom SudParis in 1997 and a diploma at the Haute École in Paris, in particular Programme Grande École, in 1999. During his professional career, Mr Boutin has followed several training courses and additional courses. To answer the more specific questions about Mr Boutin's career, as he confirmed in the parliamentary committee last December, Mr Boutin does not hold an Executive MBA degree from INSEAD but has followed a specific Executive training program for high-potential executives organized for Vivendi by INSEAD in Paris. This INSEAD training is officially known as the Customer-Specific Program (CSP): Building the future. Vivendi confirmed that the title and qualification used by Mr.Boutin in his detailed paper curriculum vitae, that is, Executive MBA for Vivendi high potential leaders, are fully in line with reality. In 2017, the Communication Department of Poximus erroneously abbreviated the title mentioned in Mr.Boutin's curriculum vitae in Executive MBA on the Proximus website. This error has meanwhile been corrected in December 2019 by adding the exact name of the program followed. Vivendi also confirmed that this program, which is Executive MBA level but does not have a bachelor's degree, spanned 18 months. The program includes three weeks in Fontainebleau on INSEAD campus and two one-week learning expeditions, one in Korea and Japan and the other in Los Angeles and San Francisco. In addition, Mr Boutin attended a renowned additional education in London at the Marketing Academy called High Selective Program for Top European CMOs. After his studies at the HEC in Paris, Mr Boutin gained his first professional experience in a consultancy firm. As is customary in France, he started through an internship for recruitment. This means that he worked for three to four months as a paid intern in the position of strategic consultant with a recruitment contract in his hand. However, he decided not to take the job in question and not to continue as a consultant. On the other hand, he decided to join the start-up InStranet, which was founded in the early 2000s in the United States. I would like to make it very clear that, in order to appoint a new CEO, all the diplomas and experiences given by Mr Boutin have been checked by executive searcher Russell Reynolds. The same checks have already been carried out in 2017 by another executive searcher in his recruitment as chief consumer market officer. During his talks and his evaluations, Mr Boutin never left the slightest doubt about his diplomas and his professional experience. The information provided to the appointment committee was therefore always correct. The appointment committee therefore based its decision on a correct reading of Mr Boutin's profile. With regard to the reference of some members to any action by the government in the appointment of the delegated director of Proximus, I would like to remind everyone that I have always respected the strictest corporate governance and that it is therefore up to the board of directors to appoint the delegated director, whatever happened in this case. It is therefore clear to me that, on the basis of the information provided by Proximus, the competences and integrity of Mr Boutin can under no circumstances be questioned. For me, the case is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u45	Minister, in the case of a public enterprise, we are asking for maximum transparency. If a Proximus worker or employee did so, he would be punished! Here, I don't see any sanction, which displeases me for the Proximus workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u46	Mr President, Minister, I hear your words, but I am still not satisfied with them. After all, the fact remains that there is or was not information on his resume that is completely correct. If someone can't give the complete right information or give a little lie for the good somewhere, that's a problem. This is a public undertaking. Intellectual capacities and university diplomas are of course very important. In terms of issues such as honesty, honesty and integrity, especially in a public sector, we must play a leading role, not only for the whole country but also for employees and all shareholders. So I take note of Proximus' answer, but I do regret the way things are going.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u47	Minister, I take note of your answer. I think we could have spared this controversy, which only managed to settle the doubt. The future of Proximus and the challenges that lie ahead deserve something else. I am surprised that this information was found on the curriculum vitae. Let's move on!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u48	Minister, in response to a question dated March 6, 2018, Alexander De Croo indicated that Proximus had started testing new technologies to improve rural residents' internet connection, by combining fixed and mobile networks or using a street cabin served by microwave beams instead of fibre optics. In June 2016, the operator Proximus had also launched an experimental project to enable its customers in the municipality of Frasnes-lez-Anvaing to test a technology that would increase the speeds of their fixed internet in rural areas. This innovative technology, developed in Belgium, was a world first. The minister had also indicated at an information session at Frasnes City Hall that, thanks to the deployment of fibre by air link, the population coverage rate would reach 72% in 2019. It is my responsibility that some work has been done. For some people, this is a real revolution. For others, on the other hand, the cabins were installed, but not all were connected. In addition, some citizens indicate that once the installation is complete, the user can only enjoy the broadband connection if he or she contacts the operator. Originally from Tournai, I can certify that many residents do not yet have a high-speed internet connection. Moreover, this constitutes an obstacle to the economic development of this entity which is part of the Lille-Courtrai-Tournai Eurometropole. Minister, can you indicate the rate of broadband coverage per municipality in Picardy Wallonia? Does Frasnes-lez-Anvaing now have a 72% coverage rate, as Minister De Croo promised in the press in 2018? When can the Frasnois hope to enjoy a total coverage rate? Could you provide me with an overview of the work that remains to be done in each municipality of Picardy Wallonia, so that the whole population has a broadband connection? Finally, when can we hope that this region will enjoy full coverage?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u49	Dear colleague, at the end of 2016, in a communication to the market about his Fiber for Belgium project, Proximus announced that it would invest €3 billion in 10 years to deploy fiber optics in our country. Proximus is also deploying fiber optics in 13 cities and municipalities. It should also be noted that Proximus has a vast network of fibers up to the street cabinets. The national coverage of Proximus' VDSL network now reaches more than 95% of households. With regard to the more dispersed habitat areas, all tracks are explored with the on-site actors, in order to improve the coverage at very high speed through new technologies such as the Tessares solution that allows to combine the fixed network with the mobile network. Proximus does not publicly provide detailed data by municipality. Having said that, I can tell you that the VDSL coverage of Picardy Wallonia is about 95%, which corresponds to the national average. For the VDSL coverage of Frasnes-Lez-Anvaing, based on the information provided by Proximus, I can confirm that it currently exceeds the 72% announced in 2018. Additional projects are under way. I can give you more details if you want. I come to your remark as to the delay between the work of connecting the ROPs and the connection of the customers. Proximus states that this period does exist. It is several months from when the street cabinet is placed to when the equipment is activated in this cabinet. The fibre must be placed towards this cabinet, received and connected to the electricity grid. Equipment must be placed and activated. All of this has yet to happen. Once the equipment is active, there may still be some time before customers are actually contacted. The actions at the level of the cabinets activated are indeed grouped. In any event, despite the efforts made by operators to improve broadband coverage, 100% coverage is difficult or impossible to reach, especially in more remote areas. It should also be noted that Proximus is of course also continuing to invest in its mobile networks in order to meet the changing needs of its customers, in particular by continuing to expand coverage in general and 4G coverage in particular. Beyond these developments, Proximus will also make the necessary investments to cope with the exponential growth of the various needs and the new generation of 5G. This remains a very important point for the company.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u50	Minister, thank you for these explanations. If you have more details, please let me know. I want to pay attention to digitalization at all costs - but I think you know what it is. We see banks that suppress services and send their customers back to their computers. They must therefore have the most appropriate connection.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u51	Mr President, Minister, over the last few months there has been a lot to do about the ATMs in our country. Of course, more ATMs close than they open. I would specifically like to ask what role bpost takes in this context. In the ending management agreement between the federal government and bpost, bpost had an important social role to play. In particular for ATMs, Bpost was obliged to install an ATM in each municipality where there was no ATM from a classic bank. Recently, it appeared that the large banks will group for the management of ATMs, which I think is a good thing. In this context, Bpost joins in a kind of joint venture of smaller banks, including Argenta, Crelan and VDK. In my view, therefore, it would appear that Bpost will hide behind that joint venture in a next management agreement to be negotiated and will therefore evade its unique service obligation borne by Bpost under the expiry of the management agreement. Minister, is my consideration wrong? Will this be assessed differently in the newly negotiated management agreement with Bpost? What obligations will bpost have to fulfil with regard to its social service, its social role vis-à-vis society in the management of ATMs in the changing ATM landscape?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u52	Mr President, Mr De Spiegeleer, first of all I would like to stress that under the management contract, bpost has always fulfilled all its obligations with regard to the installation of ATMs promptly and correctly. Last month an ATM was installed, of four machines the installation is in preparation and five machines are in the planning. So that is followed very correctly and correctly. The cooperation with these other financial institutions has absolutely no impact on this. People just keep following up on that. Your last question was about a next management contract. I suppose another government will take care of that. I do not think it is right at the moment that I should now make a statement on this matter. What should be in there, I'd like to leave it to another government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u53	Minister, I think your answer is very clear. I have never expressed my doubts about compliance with the expiry of the management agreement. My main concern is the management agreement to be negotiated, to which you naturally and understandably shun. In this context, I find it a little strange that the famous newspaper and magazine contract has already been negotiated between bpost and the government. Isn't it? Have they not been assigned to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u54	An extension has taken place, but no new contract has been concluded.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u55	The extension of the social role of ATMs could also have occurred.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u56	The Minister of Economy renewed the contract because otherwise there was no newspaper distribution. If you don't want any more newspapers, just say so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u57	No, I'm not saying that. That was also part of the management agreement. That's what it said. That is a bit of the complexity of this matter, which the Minister for Economic Affairs plays a different role in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u58	Minister, this question is somewhat dated, as we are already a storm ahead. In the previous storm Ciara was reported that the ship Life Passion, which had iron ore on board, was in a dangerous situation. An explosion had occurred on 18 January in the French territorial waters. One crew member was injured and evacuated by helicopter. The ship sailed to the Belgian territorial waters. The Maritime Rescue and Coordination Centre reported, two weeks after the ship was anchored 31 kilometres off the Ostend coast, that it was closely monitored by our authorities. The ship was in Belgian territorial waters for two weeks and was assisted by the SIRIUS, the latest acquisition of the Flemish DAB Fleet. Experts were on board to keep a close eye on the situation. It is strange that it took two weeks to communicate about the condition of that ship. Whether or not by chance that communication happened along with the announcement of the storm of February 9th. The ship therefore sailed on 8 February under supervision to the estuary of the Westerschelde, near Borssele, in the Dutch territorial waters. That step was logical, because there the ship would be better protected against the storms announced. What I find particularly strange is that on Sunday morning 9 February the ship entered the port of Ghent and could be unloaded. It seems to me that storm has literally and figuratively speeded things up. Mr Minister, I have the following questions about communication. You will know better than I do that territorial waters are a very complex dossier. How and when did the communication with the DAB Fleet of the Flemish government, with the French and Dutch governments and with the population, especially through the governor of West Flanders, who in theory was involved? Did the final destination cause economic damage? However, I think that question will lapse, since it did not turn out to be ArcelorMittal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u59	Mr De Spiegeleer, the incident was indeed a safety issue on board the ship in question, without the incident ever threatening the marine environment or shipping. There was therefore no need at that time to proceed with an urgent evacuation of the crew, since handling cargo incidents is part of the basic training of every seafarer, also imposed by the International Maritime Organization. A genuine multidisciplinary coordination of intervention at sea was therefore not necessary, so that the North Sea General Emergency and Intervention Plan was not activated either. For this reason, the incident was managed by the competent services of the Flemish government, together with the ship concerned, in which the Marine Environment Service and the Maritime DG were informed about the evolution of the situation and the measures taken to be able to provide input if necessary. The handling of the incident was therefore entirely in accordance with the agreements made within the Coastal Guard structure. I'll give you some more concrete information about the communication and how it went, first with the Flemish government and directly to the DAB Fleet. The incident report shows that on 20 January 2020 the MRCC in Ostend was informed by CROSS Gris-Nez, the French competent authority, of an incident aboard the cargo ship off the French coast, indeed requiring a crew member to be evacuated by helicopter as a result of an explosion in a working room. The MRCC was also informed that, according to the assessment of an inspection team with the cargo on board, there were no problems and that the damage to the ship was particularly minimal and therefore the integrity of the ship was not affected. The ship had Ghent as its destination. Subsequently, the MRCC informed the VTS radar plant Zeebrugge, the Joint Nautical Authority (GNA), the Pilots, the MIK, the DG Shipping and the Marine Environment Service. On the same day, after consultation between the MRCC and the GNA, the Life Passion was instructed to anchor at a safe distance north of the Westhinder anchor area. The vessel has thus never entered the territorial waters of Belgium. The Flemish Region itself has decided on the use of the SIRIUS. Since the ship had arrived in Belgian sea area and the management of the incident was taken over by the Belgian authorities, there have been no further interactions with the French authorities. The Dutch government, including the Zeeland Safety Region, was involved through the GNA to determine jointly the modalities and conditions for the transit of the Life Passion through Dutch waters to North Sea Port Gent. Nor has there ever been any danger to the population. That is also essential to give. The leading authorities have taken over media management themselves. A press release was published on 4 February 2020 at the time it was clear that the ship would meet the security requirements to enter the port of Ghent. That is the communication that took place at that time. Apart from delivering the cargo, there has been no economic impact.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for the enlightening answer. All's well that ends well.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u61	Mr Minister, the new distribution model at bpost is already partly in operation in different post offices, but problems have arisen even before it is operational in all post offices. The sorting machine cannot make the difference between prior stamps and non-priority stamps. The new prior stamps can be read by the sorting machine, but not the older prior stamps. As a result, prior and non-priority orders often arrive mixed with the postmen, who then have to sort the consignments separately. That's a huge loss of time and energy. When the machine does part of its work, non-priority letters must be stored separately, resulting in a lack of space. How will the problem that the sorting machine cannot separate the prior and non-priority stamps be solved and by when? How will you solve the storage problems in the sorting centres? How will the postmen who have to spend their time sorting themselves be relieved?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u62	Mr President, I am a little surprised by the question, because it shows that there are a lot of misunderstandings and confusion about the operation of the machine. I will try to provide some elements that can clarify the situation, which is not problematic. There is an effective difference between a prior and a non-priority seal. On 1 January 2019, the distinction between prior and non-priority missions was rolled out. To achieve this, two new prior stamps were introduced on January 1st, one for ordinary shipments and one for mourning letters. All other stamps became de facto non-priority. The sorting process works as follows. In the sorting centres, the prior letters are separated from the non-priority letters. That process has been in place since last year, and it is working properly. Since 1 January 2020, bpost has also introduced a distinction between prior and non-priority for the business administrative post. Customers issue prior and non-priority shipments separately. So there is absolutely no problem in the sorting centres, because the necessary storage areas are already available in the five sorting centres in the country today. The postman himself doesn't have to distinguish between prior and non-priority. He can simply serve the customers on the basis of the sorting. There was, of course, a test phase in which operational tests under a new distribution model were carried out in a number of distribution offices. During that test phase, the new distribution model had to be simulated, with daily distribution of prior shipments and distribution of non-priority shipments on Mondays and Wednesdays or Tuesdays and Thursdays. The pre-sorted presentation rounds had therefore to be manually rearranged and adapted to the new distribution model. It was 115 rounds at the time. For this additional work in the test phase there was effective additional support for the relevant offices. Today, however, I do not see where the problem might actually be.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. There is, however, a problem. On Friday I visited a post office that was part of the test and the mail still arrives mixed, because the sorting machine cannot read the old prior stamps. The new stamps have a code that the old ones don't have. It almost came to a strike in the sorting center, because there was not enough stockage. If the system becomes generally applicable in March, I wonder how the problem will be solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u64	Mr.President, Minister, in November 2018, bpost workers had been on strike for five days. In particular, the strike had resulted in the granting of eco-cheques to all workers in the company. At the beginning of February 2020, all received the payment of these eco-cheques. However, the factors received an erroneous amount on their account. We received messages from mailers who, in some cases, had received twice the normal amount. Others went to the store, confidently, to cash their electronic eco-cheques by purchasing organic products, but learned from the caisse that their card had been blocked. So they couldn't buy anything with the eco-cheques they got. The workers concerned claim not to have been informed by bpost that their card was blocked and thus all found themselves stuck in the cash register, confused. Some left their products in the store, others paid them with their personal credit card. Minister, is it true that bpost workers have received an incorrect amount of electronic eco-cheques? If so, how could this happen and was this problem widespread? Were bpost workers immediately informed of the error? If so, how did bpost do it? Have some bpost workers received too many eco-cheques without knowing it and spent them? If so, what should these workers do now? Will bpost claim these amounts? Has bpost suffered any economic damage as a result, since it employs some 34,000 people?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u65	Mr D'Amico, as a result of an error in the order file, the beneficiaries of ecocheques within bpost received a wrong amount. The situation with regard to the amounts available was corrected rapidly. bpost has, for its part, communicated widely, on several occasions, through the various channels of communication available within the company. A few dozen people are in this case. Their situation will be regularized at the time of the next shipment of eco-cheques. bpost has not suffered economic damage. All awardees may benefit from the amount initially charged. The validity of the eco-cheques was also extended by 15 days from the actual availability.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u66	Minister, thank you for this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u67	Mr Minister, bpost has been using data loggers in his vehicles for several years, in his own words, mainly to ensure that drivers drive in an environmentally sound way. For example, data loggers would warn drivers if they accelerate too quickly or consume more fuel than average.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u68	However, data loggers can measure much more than speed and fuel consumption. Data loggers can also be used to track and track vehicles, including bicycles and mopeds, in real time via GPS signals. The bpost employees are concerned about their privacy during their work when using a vehicle equipped with a data logger. They often lack adequate information about the use of these data loggers. How many vehicles, including bicycles and mopeds, are currently in use with bpost and how many of them are equipped with a data logger or similar system? Does bpost have plans to extend the data logging system for vehicles? If so, what model will be installed? Will those data loggers be able to locate and track vehicles? How does Bpost guarantee compliance with the law of 8 December 1992 to protect the personal sphere of life? Can bpost employees refuse a data logger without experiencing any professional disadvantages? How much does the installation, including the purchase price, cost from a data logger? Who's running it? Will the commercial vehicles made available by bpost to executives, management members and management members be equipped with a data logger to check fuel consumption and other parameters?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u69	The data logger is currently installed in about 2,700 of the 9,100 vans. In the long term, all vans will be equipped with this system. However, I must tell you that the introduction of the data logger was discussed with and validated by the social partners in all transparency and was subject to an assessment under the GDPR. These are important elements which are missing from your question. There's no live tracking of the vehicles. However, there are track-and-trace dates that are only accessible to a limited number of persons and are also only available and available after a justified application, such as the circumstances of an accident, the dispute of a fine or with the approval of the driver concerned. The bpost employees can't refuse the system because it's about professional rides and not about private rides. Commercial vehicles that can also be used privately are not equipped with a data logger. There is no system of punishment either. Drivers with a lesser driving style are informed, sensitized or possibly sent to additional internal driving training. The follow-up is in the interests of the postman, because then they have a better and safer driving style than before. The installation is carried out by external firms. Its cost is part of contracts between bpost and the companies concerned. This shall not be disclosed on grounds of confidentiality. These are, after all, elements that respond to the questions you have asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u70	Minister, you have not yet answered the question of the executive's commercial cars. We hear from the staff that they do not know how the system works. This may have been discussed with the trade union organizations, but the staff do not know much about its operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u71	This has been the subject of a great deal of internal communication. Commercial vehicles that are also used privately are not equipped with a data logger.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u72	Minister, the leadership of bpost has been fundamentally reformed in recent weeks and will continue to do so in the coming weeks. This situation arose in particular from the appointment of a new CEO for the company but also from internal decisions which led many members of the executive committee either to leave the company or to take up new functions. Minister, can you clarify the language distribution of the members of the bpost executive committee and whether the legal requirement is met in this regard? Can you clarify the linguistic role of the N-2 of the Bpost CEO with a breakdown between managers in Belgium and abroad? Finally, can you specify, by distinguishing them, the linguistic role of the CEO's N-3s for the two large Belgian operational units Mail and Retail?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u73	Mr Delizée, your question refers to the law of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain public economic enterprises, which provides for the following. In autonomous public undertakings whose public service tasks cover the whole of the Kingdom, the Board of Directors and the Management Committee have as many members of French as Dutch expression, with the exception of the Chairman. Members of the board of directors who are not appointed by the King shall not be taken into account for linguistic parity. The current composition of the bpost board of directors complies with this legal requirement. Government-appointed administrators include three Francophones and three Dutch-speaking. The Management Committee, within the meaning of the 1991 Act, also complies with the statutory requirement. It is composed of the managing director, who chairs it, and two other members, one Dutch-speaking and one French-speaking. Such a rule does not apply to the composition of the executive committee of the group, which includes one Francophone and seven Dutch-speaking.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u74	Minister, thank you for your answers. I don't have a pharmacist's balance in mind, I'm just saying that we have to try to respect linguistic balances at all levels. There is what is legal and there are other levels for which the rules are different, but I ask for respect for balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u75	Minister, my question concerns the management of parcels by bpost. We auditioned Mr. Van Gerven a few weeks ago, at the beginning of the year. The exponential growth of the parcel market has appeared to us. It also seems to guarantee a future for the autonomous public enterprise bpost. We look forward to it. During this exchange, it also appeared that the State had opened the Brussels sorting centre a few years ago. It was a very important investment. In view of the growth in the number of packages, this centre would already appear to be too small and would already be working in full capacity to absorb the continued growth of this product. Furthermore, we know that major adjustments and investments are being made at the Antwerp sorting centre to modernise it. That's very good. The necessary tools must be put in place to deal with this parcel market. My question concerns the situation in Wallonia. The Charleroi sorting centre has been reactivated. This sorting center is relatively obsolete. It may no longer meet current needs and needs to be modernized. Are there any investments planned by bpost to sustain a sorting centre for parcels in Wallonia? Is it in Charleroi or somewhere else? According to what timetable would these adjustments be carried out?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u76	Mr President, Mr Delizée, as you know, the e-commerce market and the volume of packages to be distributed have been steadily increasing in recent years. Most of the major players in this market ship their packages from neighbouring countries. As a result, bpost is continuously adapting the different sorting facilities in order to respond to these changes in the volume of packages shipped according to their origin. In this context, in addition to optimising the use of the Neder-over-Heembeek sorting centre put into service in 2017, the sites in Antwerp and Charleroi allow bpost to absorb the growth of volumes and, in particular, the peaks of volume around the end of the year. Both sites are an integral part of the company's package strategy. In order to cope with the peaks of activity at the end of the year, bpost also provides for the addition of additional sorting equipment at the Antwerp and Brussels sites in the course of 2020. And, depending on the evolution of the market and the different volumes, further investments are planned for future years in all the company's sites. This analysis is still under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u77	Minister, I thank you for this answer, which does not reassure me entirely, in the sense that a balanced distribution of investment is needed and that modern, operational and efficient tools are needed in the three regions of the country. I understand that improvements have already been made in the centres of Brussels and Antwerp and that further improvements are to be made. But, for Charleroi or Wallonia, are there any investments in order to set up a modern and operational sorting centre? That is the subject of my question and it seems to me that you have not answered it. If so, in what time frame would this be achieved?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u78	Mr Delizée, I think I answered with my last sentence. We need to see the long-term bpost strategy. It also depends on the different volumes that really require this type of investment. If the volume of this type of package is increasing, we must clearly invest and that is what bpost does. Investments follow the needs of the market. Volumes are decisive for this type of investment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u79	Minister, as I said, I am not reassured by your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u80	Minister, it seems that the public company bpost has decided to completely review its policy of forward delivery of mail, better known in jargon under the term "direct liase". The price charged for the continuation of this service appears to be rising sharply. There is a four-fold or five-fold increase in price compared to the current situation. This raises questions. Minister, what about this development? Has a decision already been formally taken? What would have led to this decision? Can you confirm that it is estimated that more than 90% of these liasses should disappear? That's the information I have, but I'm asking you to confirm it or deny it. Based on the previous responses, can you specify how many jobs would disappear as a result of the reorganizations following this decision? That's the most disturbing thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u81	Mr Delizée, for historical organizational reasons, bpost used an advanced tour system in addition to his usual tours, the "direct lilies" to which you refer. There was a lot of mail and it was necessary to unload the factors. The mail from customers who received large volumes was prepared separately and sent directly to their homes, usually at the beginning of the day. Currently, it is no longer necessary to have these advanced tours, due to the decrease in mail volumes. This issue is currently under consideration and will also be the subject of a proposal within the framework of the company's internal procedures. With the reduction of this type of mail, it is necessary to consider whether there is still a need to offer such a service.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u82	Minister, you are saying that the company may be going in that direction. It is under consideration, so it implies that no formal decision has been taken. Then I would have asked for the motivations. You're telling us it's related to the mail volume. However, I fear that prices will become prohibitive for this system as it exists today, and that it will have an impact on employment within bpost for the future. I'll keep worrying about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u83	We had, some time ago, an exchange with the CEO of bpost, Mr. Van Gerven. During this exchange, the acquisitions made during his term of office were discussed. If we add up the amounts, we get to a billion euros. The whole debate was about the contribution of these acquisitions to the company. This is a large sum, at a time when the company will have to invest to cope, in particular, with the evolution of the parcel market. This may be more than one written question, but I was wondering if we could have an exhaustive list of these acquisitions during the current Associate Administrator's term of office. The question was, therefore, also how these acquisitions brought a positive result to the company. On the one hand, there is spending of $1 billion. On the other hand, there are revenues year after year. Perhaps you can also give us multi-annual perspectives and tell us more about the relationship between the acquisitions made and the products that the Post Office has made and can hope to earn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u84	Thank you for your questions. The bpost strategy is to cope with the sharp drop in conventional mail volumes by maximizing the different opportunities. To this end, bpost has acquired several companies in order to accelerate its transformation but also to play an important role in the e-commerce market and e-logistics. During Mr. Van Gerven, these acquisitions represented an expenditure of 938 million euros but, as you know, it is often very difficult to measure the contribution of these acquisitions to the final result. These investments are for years and the result is sometimes only felt after five or ten years. I have here a more precise list of the acquisitions carried out under the mandate of Mr. Van Gerven, but it remains very difficult to identify what these acquisitions have brought to the final financial result. I'll send you the list.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u85	Mr President, it would be a good idea to include this list in our committee's report. Thank you very much. This issue is central because it is very large sums. In the profit and loss accounts, figures certainly give outputs. These companies must donate products. I accept that these results are multi-year in nature and that it is difficult to assess them. So much for the inventory of acquisitions, you give us an answer, so much on the question of the balance between products and charges, I remain on my hunger.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u86	Minister, a few weeks ago, several citizens would not have received their letters to Schaerbeek. I saw it on social media and via messages. A Facebook group was created around this topic. Several quarters of Schaerbeek would not receive their mail. According to the information I received, only packages with a tracking number were distributed. There would be a particularly complicated situation at the Brussels bpost trixellois centre, which would prevent its proper functioning. This situation embarrasses many people. We're talking about days or even weeks before these citizens could get their mail. Consider particularly important and urgent letters such as certificates, medicines, etc. Are there specific problems in sorting or distributing mail and parcels in the area mentioned, i.e. some areas of Schaerbeek? What are the causes? How can the situation evolve and be resolved?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u87	Dear colleague, the Schaerbeek mail centre has indeed experienced some difficulties in recent weeks due to various factors. These are the period of the end-of-year peak, the volume in packages which has increased sharply, but also a absenteeism far superior to the normal level. This has caused problems, especially for six distribution tours, where the distribution of part of the mail has fallen behind. The mail situation was normalized in early January. It was not until the end of January that this was the case for the packages. In addition to this general problem, an incident occurred, following which delivery of registered shipments was delayed on a particular distribution tour. This delay has already been caught up on Thursday and Friday. At present, the situation is fully standardized.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u88	Minister, good if things are normalized. We had received many messages. We can reassure our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u89	Minister, bpost has suspended the dispatch of letters and packages to China indefinitely due to transport problems caused by the corona virus. The postal company itself has announced this in our media. Bpost asks customers not to deliver their letters and packages to China for the time being in the post offices or postal points. The company will closely monitor the situation and inform its customers as soon as the shipments can be resumed. As a result of the corona virus, more and more flights to China are stopped, causing a lot of problems for postal companies. For packages and letters coming from China, bpost continues to ensure the award, says bpost. I took the test and called bpost's customer service, first as a private user and then as a manager. As a private person, I couldn't even reach anyone at customer service, because they only deal with questions about tracking packages and letters. When I presented myself as a manager, for which I had to form a different telephone number, I quickly got the necessary information about the current situation regarding the sending of parcels and letters to China. I asked the bpost employee how I could still send a package to China. She sent me to the competition, which still handles deliveries to China. Mr Minister, how do you explain that private individuals are getting much more difficult to obtain reliable information from bpost regarding the sending of packages and letters, while companies are getting a customer service employee on the line almost immediately and can be helped in this way? How do you explain that bpost is currently not sending packages or letters from Belgium to China, whereas competition can and still does so today? How many packages and letters are there waiting to be sent to China by bpost? Are the senders informed and compensated for the inconvenience? Can the economic loss of Bpost due to the delivery problems between Belgium and China be estimated?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u90	Mrs Vindevoghel, I understand that you are asking this question; it does not, of course, make communication with your mother party any easier. All madness on a stick, the situation is, of course, serious. We see on the premises that due to the number of cancelled flights to and from China, bpost is obliged to suspend the packages sent to China, since 15 February. Customers were effectively asked not to deliver letters and packages to China in post offices or postal points for the time being. Hence the communication of bpost. The situation is being closely monitored and what can change is being considered. For packages and letters coming from China, the regular distribution remains assured. In particular, the removal of many operational flights to and from China makes the operational power to carry out shipments extremely difficult. This is not just for Belgium; many European countries, such as Germany, Sweden, Spain and Denmark, suffer greatly. It is about a structural shortage of transport capacity. Bpost alone needs 1.5 tons a day. That's relatively much. Of course, smaller operators can always manage to have smaller packages delivered. You can always do that. However, for the volume of bpost there are no operational flights available at the moment. I cannot give you the number of shipments that cannot be transported by the decision. That is confidential, because from this one can deduce how much post volume bpost treats between Belgium and China. As I said earlier, customers, private individuals and companies have been informed. There was a press release. The information is also disseminated through post offices and PostPoints. It is about a case of force majeure, so there is no provision for compensation. The loss for bpost cannot be estimated at the moment, because it is not clear how long the suspension of the traffic will last.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u91	Minister, I regret that there is a difference between individuals and managers. A manager is helped directly on the phone, while a private individual, who has family there for example, is not helped so easily.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u92	Mr President, Minister, all the TV rights, or should I say the media rights, related to football, have been attributed to Eleven Sports. This sports channel has exclusive rights to broadcast 1A, 1B division matches, the Belgian Cup, the Supercoupe and women's football for the next five seasons. Currently, Eleven Sports already has three Dutch-language and three French-language channels, which are accessible on the small screens of Belgian households through paid packages offered by traditional operators such as Telenet, Proximus, Orange, VOO and TV Vlaanderen. There will be more channels in the future. The operators mentioned pay Eleven Sports to broadcast sports programmes. Even Sports needs Telenet and Proximus for their programs to arrive in Belgian household fairs. Even Sports alleges that it is also interesting for operators to be able to offer Belgian football matches in their offer. If Eleven Sports ever starts broadcasting its programs through Telenet and Proximus, it won't change much in the eyes of consumers. Football fans will pay their football subscription directly to Proximus, as they already do now. What amount will it be? It's not clear. Currently you have to pay 29,95 euros per month for Proximus Play Sports and 16,99 euros per month for Proximus Sports. Will these rates still be valid in the coming football seasons? How many women's Play Sports games by Proximus aired in 2019? How many women's football matches will Proximus broadcast in 2020? Will Proximus invest in this and why? How many subscribers do Proximus Play Sports and Proximus Sports have? Were they in the green in 2019? If so, how many benefits have they generated and will these same figures be achieved in the coming years? What are the forecasts for this? Finally, are sports and football programmes in particular an important strategic pillar of Proximus TV? How much do we want to invest in sports programming? Merci.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u93	Mr D'Amico, in Dutch it is said that football is the most important side issue in life, so I welcome the fact that a question is being asked. Proximus has told me that it takes note of the decision of the Pro League to grant media rights to Eleven Sports. Pending the new season 2020-2021, which will start in the summer, Proximus will continue to broadcast all the games of the Jupiter Pro League and the Proximus League, as well as the Champions League, the best international football competitions and competitions in basketball, cycling, tennis, hockey and many other sports. With regard to your particular question about women's football, Proximus has told me that in recent months I have broadcasted on Proximus Sports including some Red Flames matches, the women's final of the Belgian Cup, the UEFA Champions League women's final, and some games of Anderlecht's women's team in the UEFA Champions League. They have therefore made an effort in this regard. With regard to the precise information you are asking about the rates that will be applied for the football offer, the number of subscribers and other figures, they are subject to the commercial freedom of this company and are also, by nature, confidential.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u94	Thank you for that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic114x.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, we have exhausted the agenda. Thank you, Minister, for your loan to the exercise.
