ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u1	Minister, there has been a survey of Buurtsuper.be some time ago, and Unizo has also done a lot of research into the handling of shoplifting. Unfortunately, there are still a lot of shops that have to do with shoplifting. For the specific figures, I would like to refer to the written version of my question which I have submitted. A discussion has now started on the introduction of a system of alternative handling according to the Dutch model. In mid-2017, a special Security Ministerial Council adopted the possibility to close a deal between the shopkeeper and the shoplifter. Several working groups were then organized to implement such a settlement in practice. At the moment, such a deal is not possible. Hence my question, Minister. In order to allow alternative handling of shoplifting, a protocol agreement was worked out. I would like to hear the state of play. Will that protocol still be finalised during this period of current cases or will the matter be suspended? What further steps do we need to take? Then what's the timing of that? Just with the state of affairs, you'd be doing me a lot of favor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u2	Mr Minister, I would repeat Mrs Dierick's question. In short, I would like to hear from you the state of play of this protocol agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u3	I would like to remind you that, unfortunately, this period of current affairs will not allow this project to be completed before a new government. I have expressed my wish several times to seek an answer to the difficult situation in which traders in Belgium find themselves today when they are the victims of shoplifting. The introduction of a system allowing immediate and dissuasive action remains essential. That is why the government wanted to introduce a procedure for immediate punishment through a deal between the trader and the thief, all under the supervision of the prosecution. My cabinet has drawn up a draft protocol in consultation with the parties concerned and in cooperation with the departments and Cabinets of Justice and Home Affairs. Despite the ongoing cases, I wanted to get as far as possible with this file. The draft protocol was therefore submitted to the College of Attorneys General which gave its opinion. The College formulates a number of legal reserves, even many reserves. I would also like to simplify the lodging of a complaint by traders, even if the offender of the offence is known, through the possibility to file complaints online. This point has also been the subject of a series of comments and reservations which my cabinet is currently considering. Unfortunately, as I told you, it will not be possible to introduce this mechanism until there is a full government. In short, Mrs Dierick, more support for the justice and home affairs offices would be welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Mrs. Dierick, do you feel addressed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u5	A little, even though, of course, I'm not responsible for everything. I will also ask the fellow ministers about the state of play within their departments. Minister, I understand that a final solution is not possible within the current period. However, there has been a draft protocol on which several legal observations have been made. As I understand it from your answer, there has been no further work on this. I can only hope, together with many colleagues and citizens, that there will soon be a fully-fledged government to get this back on the agenda and that it will be able to work effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u6	Minister, once again I can only join my colleague. It is a matter of agreed policy, and it is a pity that we are not going any further in this area. We can only insist that steps are taken to go further in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u7	Minister, Black Friday has blown over from the United States and is gaining popularity every year. For many small shops it remains very difficult to go against. The large chains give great discounts and the small trader is difficult to fight against them. Moreover, there is a fear that there will be many more such events. For example on Singles' Day people who are single get extra discounts. Over time a reason to give discounts will be found every month. Self-employed organisations are very concerned about this phenomenon because it creates unfair competition for the small trader. The retail sector is already in the top three of the number of bankruptcies. For a number of local traders it becomes very difficult to keep fighting against those online or large physical stores, and especially against popular actions like Black Friday. Minister, what is your position on the increasing number of discount days? Do you think that this is a good thing, or do you think that something should be put on the brakes? What actions do you think are possible to ensure that this is sustainable for many small businesses? We must be careful not to push the small trader out of the market any more. How can we encourage consumers to make their purchases locally? Finally, there are initiatives such as the online store platform Storesquare, to buy online from a local store. Are you in favour of such initiatives? You can take measures yourself to support this more.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u8	Mr President, as you know, I have defended the maintenance of the regulations of the solders. I fully support this position, which is shared by the representative organisations of traders, even though many European countries have withdrawn the solders and some political formations are in favour of a ban. For me, this period offers the trader a specific moment to communicate about discounts and to liquidate their stock on a seasonal basis. That said, companies are free to develop their commercial strategy insofar as they remain honest with the consumer. This means that under the legislation discounts are only possible on the price that the trader has been applying for some time. The consumer must not be misled, it must be a real discount. If the ban on unfair commercial practices is respected, the law does not prevent different discount days being organised throughout the year. Moreover, commercial practices should no longer cause unfair competition between companies. This implies that, outside the official selling period, a reduced selling price may never be a loss-making sale within the meaning of Article 616 of the Economic Law Code. It will be up to the next government to assess whether or not it is appropriate to go further in the regulation of commercial practices. As far as I am concerned, I will always be in favour of measures that allow more effective protection for small traders. The latter, however, are not entirely powerless against the giants of the Internet. They can value their specificity, in particular their services and the quality of their products. I welcome initiatives such as Unizo's Winkelhier campaign. It's a really nice idea. [[.]] This campaign was launched in December to encourage consumers to buy their gifts from local traders. On the occasion of Black Friday, some had a Green Friday where traders said they already had a correct price. I am also pleased with alternative platforms such as Storesquare. This platform unites Belgian designers and sellers on a dome website. Such initiatives are also needed for the future of local commerce.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. You explained your position on the solder period. We differ in this respect: we have other proposals on this. That discussion will certainly come back. Yesterday we heard in the news that the solder period was absolutely not a success and that there is still a lot of stock left. It is, after all, a subject that we must include in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs in order to discuss it and take action on it. For the rest, I am pleased that you think actions such as Winkelhier are a good idea and that you support them. We must support small shops and local traders. In the next government, too, we will have to consider whether additional measures should be taken in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u10	Mr President, Minister, the 2013 law on financing for SMEs was updated in 2017 to facilitate the creation and development of SMEs. Accessing credit and being properly informed at the pre-contractual stage are of the utmost importance. A frequent complaint is the fate of SMEs that have concluded a credit that entered into force before the entry into force of the Act in 2013. In any event, when updating the law in 2017, the Minister indicated that the law would be continuously monitored and improved and that a first evaluation would take place in 2019. Since 2019 is now closed, I have the following questions. In the meantime, has there been an evaluation? If yes, what are the findings? How many complaints about credits dating from before 2014 have you received since the entry into force of the law?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u11	Mr President, Mrs Houtmeyers, first of all, I would like to remind you of the extent to which the 2013 law, which I was able to have adopted by your meeting, has delivered a new and extremely important instrument to our SMEs. One can have a beautiful project and be aware that there is a question in this regard which the project will meet. However, without adequate funding, it will not be possible to implement it. Therefore, the law on financing SMEs was modernised. The reform has strengthened the information and protection of companies in the context of their search for funding. The reinvestment clauses are now better framed. I thought it would be useful to repeat these elements as an introduction. To answer your question precisely, I can state that the evaluation of the law will be carried out by the FPS Economy before the fourth quarter of 2020. As you mentioned, the law applies to credit agreements concluded after the law has entered into force. For the particular case you mention in your question, I would say that it is necessary to assess on a case-by-case basis whether or not the parties really want to replace the old contract with a new contract. In the event of a dispute, it will be up to the court to assess the will of the parties, if it is not clear. The reason for non-retroactivity lies in the legislator's desire to strike the right balance between SMEs and credit institutions. As far as customers are concerned, the latest annual report of the ombudsdienst gives the following figures: 595 admissible complaints between 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2018. Of the 105 admissible files registered in 2018, 67 files or 63.81 % concerned unauthorised early repayment or funding loss, 9 files or 8.6 % related to guarantees and 8 files or 7.61 % related to cancellation of appropriations. In addition, in order to inform businesses as best as possible about the benefits of the reform, I organised a road show "Financing for SMEs" throughout the country between September 2018 and March 2019. This was done in close collaboration with NSZ, Unizo, UCM and KVABB. Professionals from the field were present to raise awareness of the potential slopes of bank financing, loans and leasing and alternatives such as business angels or platforms for other measures or instruments available to them at the federal level. I am thinking here of the investment deduction guarantees for exports, tax ruling, assistance in compiling credit files and the tax shelter for SMEs. Nine sessions were organized throughout the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for the explanations and the figures. Is it possible to receive the figures on paper as well? [[Assent]] However, there are still a lot of complaints about the unauthorised early repayment of appropriations. What happens to the complaints? Should the court ultimately rule on the dispute?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u13	I don't know. I'll check that out and then give you an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u14	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u15	Mr President, Minister, just before Christmas, the European Union unfolded its ambitious climate plans with the Green Deal. According to the General Farmers' Syndicate as well as the Farmers' Union, the Green Deal will have a major impact on the agricultural sector. Further efforts from our farmers are not an option, as long as they do not first work on a fair and stable income, says Farmers' Union Chairman Sonja De Becker. More and more rules are being imposed on European and therefore also on Belgian farms, such as a significant reduction of chemical crop protectors, reduction of the use of fertilizers and antibiotics, reduction of emissions and so on. They want to be climate neutral by 2050. New developments such as drought resistance and disease resistance with CRISPR are also continuing due to the pressure and lobbying of various environmental movements. This is in stark contrast to foreign countries, including Mercosur, on which a question is still on the agenda in a moment, where all these restrictions are not or are much less relevant. There is therefore a fear that agriculture in Europe and Belgium will become less and less liveable and that in the long term many farms will have to bear the consequences or even close the doors. How do you estimate the impact of the Green Deal? Do you think that the Green Deal can be implemented without endangering our agricultural sector? What is your vision for the future of our Belgian farms?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u16	Mr President, Mr Gilissen, ecological transition is necessary to protect our ecosystems, our biodiversity and our health. However, it is also crucial that this does not happen to the detriment of our farmers. I would like to remind you that it must be done with agricultural bashing. I am convinced that the protection of our biodiversity will only be possible by involving farmers in the new sustainable agricultural model without stigmatising, culpabilising or caricaturising them. Stop agribashing. In this respect, I welcome the fact that the European Commission's message states that the transition will have to be just, leaving no-one behind, as well as the principle that agricultural products imported from third countries will have to respect European environmental standards. The aim is to avoid unfair competition. The agricultural aspects of the Green Deal were presented by the Commission at the last Agriculture Council on 27 January. We have taken the floor to remind and to insist on the crucial role played by farmers in this reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Ecological points of view are indeed necessary. We must ensure that we deal with our raw materials and agricultural products in an environmentally friendly manner. However, the economic aspect is also important and farming farming must be avoided because our farms are very important. We do not need to import anything we can produce here from other countries and certainly not with polluting ships from the other side of the world. Thank you again for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u18	Mr Minister, my question is a follow-up question: at the committee meeting on 27 November we had an exchange of views on this matter. The agreement still gives rise to great concern among our agricultural organisations. In your reply to my question of 27 November, you announced that there would be an impact study, which would be ready by the beginning of 2020, which is why I have again put forward a question to get a state of affairs, Minister. Is the impact study ready or can a preliminary state of the study be sketched? Can we get the results ourselves or shall we look at them in committee? What's the status? In the meantime, have you taken initiatives to defend the interests of our Belgian farmers at European level? What is the state of play? Has there been any consultation with the agricultural organizations that are united in Agrofront? If so, when and what is the result? Finally, we have heard that Wallonia is opposed to the trade agreement. Have you had discussions with the Regions on this matter and how has this consultation been conducted?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u19	Minister, on 21 January the announcement was published in De Tijd that Wallonia is opposed to the Mercosur trade agreement. I have already put questions to you in the past, both in committee and in plenary, concerning the Mercosur agreement, and you indicated that you personally have a number of objections, questions and reservations about the agreement. The Flemish Interest Group shares these concerns and has therefore tabled a motion for a resolution with the aim of rejecting the agreement in its present form. The agreement does not provide sufficient guarantees for our agricultural and livestock farms. We also believe that we should not transport products that we can also produce locally from the other side of the world here with polluting sea transports and the like. There are, of course, also good things about the agreement, namely the possibility of imports with reduced levies on products that we cannot produce locally or insufficiently and so on. However, we do not think that our local farming and livestock farms should suffer from this and that the advantages do not outweigh the disadvantages, hence my questions, Mr President-in-Office. Will you at federal level argue for the rejection of the current Mercosur agreement, as has happened at Walloon level? Will you call at European level for a new negotiation of the Mercosur agreement with the aim of revising or adapting the agreement with better guarantees for our local agricultural and livestock farms?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u20	Thank you for this important question, Mrs Dierick and Mr Gilissen. I am sorry, Mrs Dierick, but the results of the impact study of the FPS Economy are only expected this spring. They're not known yet. In this study, the FPS Economy will examine the impact of the Mercosur agreement on the Belgian economic system, including the agricultural sector. I have already had the opportunity to explain my personal position on that agreement. As I said earlier, the agreement does not offer sufficient guarantees today, either for the health of consumers or for the fulfilment of international environmental commitments, or for the protection of our family farming. The European Food Safety Authority, EFSA, prepared a report on pesticides. In that report, it highlights a number of gaps in European legislation, for example on the cocktail effect, the effect of several pesticides together, each individually respecting the accepted standards. This is a problematic situation if we know that farmers in the Mercorsur countries use more pesticides than our farmers. In fact, I reaffirmed that position with regard to my Brazilian colleague at an interministerial meeting in which I participated at the Grüne Woche. It was an international meeting on agriculture in Berlin. It will, of course, be up to the next government to take a position on that dossier and to communicate it to the various relevant meetings. It's not just a government decision. It is also a decision of the various parliaments. The legislative proposal is not necessary because the representatives of the people will decide whether or not to ratify it. As far as I am concerned, I wanted to act proactively as soon as it was closed to defend the interests of our farmers. I initially asked Commissioner Hogan to mobilise the financial resources in favour of the agricultural sector that would be affected by the agreement. I have also interviewed him on several occasions at the European Agricultural Councils which have taken place since then. Of course, I intend to do the same with his successor. I sent a letter to Commissioner Andriukaitis, EFSA and the Agriculture Ministers of France, the Netherlands, Germany and Luxembourg in July 2019. I reiterated the importance of strict application of European sanitary rules to Mercosur's products. I have interviewed the Commission and my French, Luxembourg and Irish counterparts about the fires that have devastated the Amazon forest and about the compatibility of management by the Brazilian authorities with international environmental commitments. It also seems that many of these fires were lit with a view to more arable land. I would like to continue this lobbying work at European level, either during my bilateral meetings or during my presentations to the European Agricultural Councils.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u21	Minister, I understand that it is still a little too early for the impact study expected in spring 2020. I hope that we will have the time to discuss this study here in Parliament. In this way we can make a good assessment of what this will mean for our agriculture. There must also be good communication, because there is a great deal of concern. I would also like to thank you for your efforts in the field of consultation with your European colleagues. I hope that you will maintain good contacts with the agricultural organisations and inform them properly so that they have correct information. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that I have my next two questions. 55002766C and 55002771C want to convert into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In your opinion, the Mercosur agreement does not provide sufficient guarantees. We share that view. You cited the fires in the Amazon forest. The bald cap that is taking place there is also an important reason for tabling that resolution. We cannot allow the Amazon forest to be cut off halfway, bring agricultural products here with polluting transport vessels and then introduce all kinds of environmental measures here, genre LEZs in certain cities. This seems to me to contradict each other. You mentioned the gaps and the cocktail effect on pesticides. These are all concerns that we share. That is why we have also tabled a resolution to put an end to this Mercosur agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u23	This brings us to the end of the questions for Minister Ducarme. For the sake of clarity, I would like to repeat once again that questions. 55002766C and 55002771C by Mrs Dierick were converted into written questions. I suggest we start with the questions to Minister Muylle in a minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u24	Mr President, Minister, the National Council for Productivity recently stated that the productivity of our companies has increased over the past two decades. In any case, strong productivity in the past was one of our most important assets, especially when we look at the competition with the economies of our neighbouring countries. After all, we have other handicaps, such as wage costs. In the 1970s productivity grew by an average of 4.3 % per year, while in recent years this growth has increasingly stopped. The Council also points out that, inter alia, the service sector cannot always work efficiently due to excessive regulation and that there has been a global problem with entrepreneurial dynamics. Madam Secretary, that is why I have the following questions. Do you recognize the slacking productivity of our companies? How does productivity developments relate to Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels respectively? What are the causes of stagnation? What measures have already been taken in the past to restore the productivity of our companies? Were they effective and efficient? Finally, what additional measures are you planning to take in the fight against productivity degradation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u25	Mr President, Mr Van Lommel, it is true that productivity growth in Belgium has slowed down in recent decades. However, this is also the case in other countries. Not only the National Council for Productivity pointed to this problem. Other institutions, such as the OECD and the European Commission, have already mentioned this trend. In this respect, the creation of the National Council for Productivity through the law of 25 November 2018 is very important. The National Council for Productivity will therefore give a clearer view of the causes of the productivity puzzle in the coming years. Due to an occasional review of the national accounts in 2019, we do not yet have the detailed analysis of productivity differences at regional and sectoral level. There are several reasons for the continuing delay in our country, which will be further deepened in the forthcoming reports of the National Council for Productivity. For example, in Belgium productivity growth in recent decades has mainly been based on capital growth, i.e. the increase in capital per hour worked, on more limited entrepreneurial dynamics with relatively low rates, on newly created and discontinued companies and on a lack of strong growing companies. One of the government's priorities has been to achieve a sustainable growth of living standards, in particular by increasing productivity. As Minister of Economy, I am of course following these developments very closely. I would like to point out once again the various reforms implemented by the government, such as the tax shift, which has made it possible to gradually reduce employers' contributions and to further reduce the costs of night work. I also believe that the well-being of workers contributes to their productivity. This is therefore addressed through the law workable and manoeuvrable work. We also want to continue to encourage this law and training throughout the career. This promotes the employability of workers and should help to eliminate skills mismatches. Having the appropriate skills for the right job increases productivity. Since May 2018, the new insolvency law allows the judiciary to legally dissolve the so-called zombie companies. The reform of company law also ensures greater flexibility, transparency and accessibility and also takes into account the European dimension of company law. Finally, in its first report, the National Council for Productivity pointed to other levers affecting productivity growth, such as entrepreneurial and innovation culture and good performance in mobility, energy and telecommunications. As you know, the regions have a lot of powers in this area. I will continue to work, but you know, of course, that my possibilities in current cases are limited. We will therefore make all the contributions we can with colleagues to dynamically develop productivity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u26	Mr President, Minister, we recognise that a number of legislation designed to combat the loss of productivity was amended in the previous legislature. We have also supported them where we found it effective and efficient. You are referring to other neighbouring countries. That may be true, but that productivity was our absolute advantage in the past in this competition. You say that you sought to reduce labour costs in the previous legislature, but we see that, in terms of wages and taxes in general, we belong to the countries with the highest burdens in the world. This productivity is therefore very important for our economy at the moment. Every time I question you in this committee and ask for figures, you say that they do not have figures or that you cannot refer to them. I'm very sorry about that. You also always say that the possibilities of current cases are limited. At present, however, we still have a Council of Ministers which, even today, must do its best to deal with the problems as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u27	Mrs Matz is on her way, so I suggest you start with your question, Mr Van Lommel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u28	Madam Minister, according to recent figures from the Energy Ombudsperson, more and more complaints are continuing about the sales practices used by energy suppliers to win contracts. These include telephone sales or door-to-door sales, hence the following questions. What are the main complaints reported? What categories of victims are we talking about when we diversify them? What sanctions are provided for to correct energy suppliers? Are there any sanctions at all? Finally, what have you done in the past to address this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u29	Mr President, Minister, my question is largely on the same subject. I'd like to refer to the coverage of Test Purchasing. Test-Achats reported that it received 157 complaints about how sellers of the electricity supplier Luminus tried to recruit customers in MediaMarkt affiliates. I've experienced it myself, by the way. These complaints range from misleading price comparisons to the secret application of a contract. Test-Achats also determined this, via mystery shoppers with a hidden camera, in six MediaMarkt-filialen in Brussels and Antwerp. The mystery shoppers were given false information and sometimes even outright lies. The number of complaints also increased for other gas and electricity suppliers. Specifically, the number of complaints increased from 178 in 2014 to 804 in 2019. Have you already planned consultations with the energy suppliers? What initiatives are there to protect consumers from these aggressive and misleading practices? What steps have you already taken and will you take to stop these practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u30	Mr President, I apologize for my delay, but it is not easy to organize when we have to attend several simultaneous meetings. Minister, the final draft of the consumer agreement in the liberalized gas and electricity market came into force almost two years ago. Who are the signatories of this agreement? What share do they represent in the entire gas and electricity supply market? The agreement provides for a series of obligations for suppliers, including: "Once a year, in each 12-month cycle, the energy supplier shall communicate to each consumer the cheapest tariff formula at the time of consumption." To what extent do suppliers comply with this rule? More generally, how does the administration ensure that suppliers (signatories or not) comply with the agreement? Are systematic controls carried out by the Economic Inspectorate or is it acting only as a result of a complaint?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u31	Colleagues, the FPS Economy website contains information on codes of conduct. For each code, there is a list of members. There were seventeen. Given the mergers, termination of business, non-activity in the residential market, today ten suppliers are still really affected by the agreement, namely Antargaz Belgium, Aspiravi Energy, EDF Luminus, Eneco, Engie Electrabel, Octa+Energy, Essent Belgium, Lampiris, Trivium and Watz. According to CREG figures of 31 December 2018, they accounted for 92% of the residential market in Belgium. The last revision of the agreement was in mid-2017 and its full implementation was set for 1 September 2018. I believe that, after two years, it is necessary to carry out a thorough monitoring of compliance with the agreement. Thus, I have commissioned the Economic Inspectorate to carry out such a check and I am waiting for the results by the end of March. The Economic Inspectorate shall also carry out investigations on the basis of the analysis of notifications received through the reporting point. Those notifications relate in particular to unwanted telephone calls related to the sale of energy contracts, the bell-me-not-more list and door-to-door sales or sales outside sales premises, door-to-door and in other commercial matters. For example, you referred to this recently, Mrs Van Bossuyt, against the practices of a specific energy supplier in the sale of energy contracts in a chain of shops. No figures are available for categories of victims. These data are not recorded by the administration, but in the event of infringements, the Economic Law Code provides for criminal sanctions from 208 euros to 200,000 euros. Those sanctions also apply in the event of non-compliance with the consumer agreement because the infringement of the code of conduct constitutes an improper commercial practice. My predecessors have already repeated in Parliament on several occasions that the problems mentioned must be situated within a European framework. This framework provides for maximum harmonisation as regards unfair commercial practices and consumer rights. It is therefore no easy matter to impose additional obligations legally, but I await the results of the investigation that I have just spoken about. They're due at the end of March. On this basis, I will consider what action can be taken. It remains important to us that everything comes through the hotline. You referred to Test Purchasing, Mrs. Van Bossuyt. When such practices come into the media, suppliers will no longer be able to find themselves in these particular retail chains the next few weeks, because they are known to be subject to investigations. It is therefore important to send such signals to the Economic Inspectorate as soon as possible via the hotline so that we can act very quickly. We have seen in recent weeks and months that this remains very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u32	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the answer. Various suppliers are mentioned in the press, which I will not specifically refer to. This means that the problem is quite wide. I am pleased that you have entrusted the Economic Inspectorate with a check which you will have the necessary results by the end of March and from which we will be able to draw the right conclusions in order to put an end to these abuses. I also note that the necessary sanctions are already in place today. We must therefore ensure that they are applied. We find that it is very often the elderly and those who are not broad who are the victims of such unfair sales practices. That's why we need to switch quickly. Finally, there is also the bell-me-not-list. I am glad that you pay the necessary attention to this. You will certainly remember the question we asked you about this in this committee a few months ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u33	Madam Minister, thank you for the initiative to ask the Economic Inspectorate for a thorough check. You say you expect the results by the end of March. I hope that somehow they will get to us too. I know that we must act within a certain European framework, to which we are bound. However, as you say, there are sanctions and it is therefore important to give the signal that they are being applied. After all, that is the only way to have a deterrent effect. Finally, another appeal. You call it very important that complaints are made at the hotline. Around the bell-me-not-list there was a campaign and a lot of awareness. It might be wise to inform more people of the hotline. I didn't know that myself. With greater awareness of this, it will become more representative and will effectively produce more complaints. I believe that this number is much higher than we are aware of today. Immediately this is a useful tool to be able to act against the people who apply these techniques.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u34	Madam Minister, I thank you for your response and for the important follow-up, particularly with regard to the sanctions that could be imposed as a result of this essential information for the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u35	Questions Nos 5502299C and 55002472C by Mr Bayet will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u36	Madam Minister, recently it became known that the government extended the subsidy to bpost for the distribution of newspapers by two years. It would be an annual allowance of EUR 170 million. The exact amount of money involved is not entirely clear. However, a resolution of your party mate Griet Smaers was unanimously adopted in the Chamber on 20 April 2017. This resolution called on the federal government to investigate how a level playing field could be created for the delivery of newspapers and magazines through different channels. In addition, it was invited to evaluate the federal aid to the press media, to increase the transparency of the aid and to ensure that the monopoly position in distribution does not give rise to abuse of power. Is it true that the concession is awarded for two years? Should a new public tender be launched at the end of the concession? Is the amount quoted correct, EUR 170 million per year? What was the legal basis for granting the concession? To what extent did the various elements of the resolution adopted unanimously be taken into account? Was the decision discussed in the Dagbladhandel Committee? If so, what were the points of view? Is the decision notified to the European Commission in the light of State aid rules? Are local publishers eligible for this? If so, which publishers are involved? If not, how can they claim it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u37	Madam Minister, at the end of 2019 Flemish Interest submitted an amendment to delete the concession for the delivery of newspapers and magazines from the emergency budget with provisional credits. The 2018 budget involved an amount of 178 million euros per year, in current cases, for a subsidy that is actually completely obsolete and no longer necessary. Madam Secretary, I just heard you say clearly that your options are limited in current cases. That certainly doesn't apply to the subsidies? At the end of 2019, the government was not shy of extending the State aid for the distribution of newspapers and magazines in current cases for 2021 and 2022. My question was originally addressed to Minister Alexander De Croo. He has always openly opposed the extension of that contract with bpost. I see now that Mr De Croo has passed on the hot potato to you. How can you interpret the decision in the context of the limited powers in the period of current cases? What are the amounts mentioned for the concession in 2021 and 2022? We particularly want to know what your view is of a press concession after 2022, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u38	Minister, at the end of last year, the concession granted to bpost for the distribution of newspapers and magazines was extended. In this enterprise, 3,000 jobs are devoted to this task. At the time of fake news, photos and videos rigged on the internet, it seems to us essential that the citizen can continue to consult quality newspapers and magazines and that they are delivered to the home. For this mission of public utility, bpost enjoys the support of the State, since it is a public undertaking. Several private actors are already active in the home media distribution market. Their independent deliverers often earn between 500 and 1,000 euros per month, while they work at night, i.e. from 2 a.m. to 7.30 a.m. Failure to grant this concession to bpost would inevitably lead to a social breakdown, since 3,000 jobs would go into smoke. In addition, the working conditions of distributors would deteriorate considerably. At the request of the former Minister of Employment, Mr Kris Peeters, the Central Economic Council delivered an opinion in 2019. According to this body, the removal of the bpost subsidy for the distribution of newspapers and magazines would result in a reduction in the number of paper subscriptions and would have a negative impact on the sector and the economy in general. That is why the Central Council proposes to extend the concession granted to bpost. Minister, as this extension has come into effect, how much does the company receive to provide this public service? Will it be sufficient to guarantee the working conditions of the factors? What is the percentage of the distribution of the home press still provided by bpost? Is it increasing or decreasing? As Minister of Employment, you are responsible for employment at bpost. How many jobs would disappear from this company if the concession in question were no longer extended? Would you then propose to these unemployed factors to retrain themselves as independent deliverers of home newspapers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u39	Mr Loones is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u40	Mr President, Mr D'Amico, the answer is in Dutch, because the question was also asked in Dutch. I'm sorry. Mr President, several members of the government were questioned about the extension of the concession for the delivery of approved newspapers and magazines to bpost. As the control of the current concession falls within my competence, I will answer the bundled questions. The government has indeed decided to extend the current concession for the delivery of recognised newspapers and magazines, which expires at the end of 2020, for a period of two years. That possibility of renewal was also included in the call for candidates in the initial contract award procedure. It is therefore not a question of a new award or of a new award, but rather of an extension included in the call for the initial procedure. I would like to stress that the extension of the current concession is subject to the same conditions. No new tender procedure was launched. The extension will be formalised by means of an accessory to the existing contract. Of course, compliance with public procurement legislation was checked in the legal field. The compensation which the Belgian State will pay annually to bpost depends on the volumes distributed by bpost to newspapers and magazines and on the quality delivered. However, there is a ceiling of EUR 122.5 million for newspapers and EUR 62.5 million for magazines, respectively. Each publisher of approved newspapers and/or magazines is eligible for the said distribution, but the publisher is free to call on other operators for the delivery of newspapers and magazines. Now I come to the issue of current cases. The newspaper and magazine concession is a long-standing dossier on which the previous government has already taken decisions in the past. The extension was urgent, necessary and, above all, precautionary. The fall of the government disrupted the planned timing. If no decision was taken now, it would create adverse effects and organisational problems for the sector, harm the fundamental importance of information dissemination and contribute to legal uncertainty. I would particularly like to emphasise the precautionary nature of the decision. As a government in current cases, the mere extension of the current agreement without the need for conditions is the most conservative and, in fact, the only option that could be taken. Both the launch of a new procurement procedure for the conclusion of a new concession, possibly in a modified form, and the termination of the concession, would mean a political decision with potentially significant impact, requiring a decision of a government with full power. The government does not want to anticipate the decision that a new government will take after the end of the current press concessions, such as the issuing of a new public invitation to tender. Such a decision depends on political choices, which extend beyond the powers a government decides on in current cases. However, the European Commission has acknowledged that the distribution of recognised newspapers and periodicals in Belgium is a service of general economic interest. Until the new government is formed, the current government must therefore ensure its continuity. This requires an extension of the current press concession for a limited period of two years. The two-year period shall take into account the uncertainty as to the timing of the establishment of a new government, the duration of a procedure in the event of the launch of a new public tender, the need for a transition period if another concessionaire is chosen, as well as the opinion of the Central Business Council of 20 December 2018. As regards the issue of daily traders, as has been said, the government has only decided on a mere extension in current cases. Major changes in favour of the daily trade would not be in line with the concept of current cases. They have been informed of this; they have been informed of it. As regards the notification to the European Commission, the current concessions were formally notified to the European Commission at the time. It decided that there was State aid, but that the concessions were in conformity with the internal market. The Belgian State will therefore notify the European Commission of the extension of the press concessions. The pre-notification dossier is therefore currently being prepared. With regard to employment at bpost, Bpost currently has more than 3,000 full-time equivalents dealing with the distribution of newspapers and magazines. The extension has no impact on that today. It is not up to a government in current cases to decide on the future of the concession. The present government should not bind the future government in such an important dossier. However, my administration has been instructed by the Council of Ministers to examine all possible future scenarios, without any possible preference for a particular slope. Account will also be taken of the resolution adopted in the Chamber on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u41	Madam Secretary, there is an important difference in nuance. You are talking about the extension of the initial procedure, but initially there were two players on the market and meanwhile one player has taken over the other, making bpost the only player and thus has a monopoly on that market. As a result, there is a direct allocation of EUR 170 million in bpost. That is a big difference from the initial procedure. If I understand correctly, every publisher of newspapers and magazines is eligible for this. Local publishers could thus also be eligible for this. We must move urgently to an alternative arrangement or at least work on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u42	Madam Minister, I hear you raising amounts of 112 million and EUR 62.5 million. Together, this is EUR 174 million. A grant of no less than EUR 174 million is therefore decided on in current cases, even though it is completely obsolete and not really necessary. Moreover, it actually constitutes state aid which is unfair competition for newspapers and modern, exclusively digital media. The government is clearly not aware of the budgetary impact. It doesn't wake up the traditional parties either. Those who are aware of it, of course, are our constituents. We will continue to put the issue on the political agenda. We will also table new amendments to the forthcoming draft provisional appropriations, and we will see if the parties who are critical here today will consistently approve them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u43	Minister, you are well aware that the PTB is in favour of a good public service. We are fatally for the bpost concession. However, we hope that bpost will be allowed to distribute newspapers and magazines with acceptable staffing. Otherwise, bpost will be tempted to put even more pressure on its employees, through their working conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u44	Madam Minister, on 9 December 2019 the CM sent a letter to its members stating that the additional allowance patients receive for the purchase of incontinence material in the pharmacy will be discontinued. From 1 January 2020, patients can still contact the home care shop or the home care shop website for a 30% discount for the purchase of incontinence material. On the reverse side of the letter was mentioned again where the home care shops were located. Reference was also made to the website itself. It is important that the registered office of movement.net and the CM has the same address as Goed Farma CVBA, namely the Haachtsesteenweg in Brussels. Madam Secretary, through this letter, whereby the CM abolishes the discount in the pharmacy, CM obliges its members to buy from the shops of Goed Farma CVBA if they want a discount. Do you think this is acceptable? Is it acceptable that there should be agreements between two companies with a registered office at the same address? Patients have the right to a free choice of care provider. Many patients have so far bought their incontinence material from their home pharmacist, who is often closer than the home care store. Have you considered that the rights of the patient as well as the rights of the pharmacist as a care provider have been violated? If so, will you take steps? Advertising for discount is also a commercial activity. Does this belong to the jurisdiction of a mutuality? I heard that a number of officials have filed a complaint with the Competition Authority. Can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u45	The practices to which you refer, Mrs Depoorter, do indeed raise questions about healthy conditions of competition on the market. The Belgian Competition Authority, BMA, provided the following information on my question. According to European case law, bodies responsible for managing statutory health and old-age insurance schemes pursue an exclusively social objective and do not engage in economic activity. However, some of their activities are regarded as economic activities and are subject to competition law. This is the case, inter alia, where they offer services in competition with private companies and enter into an agreement with an undertaking in that context with a view to granting a price reduction for the purchase of specific products by their members. From this point of view, the activity of the sickness funds is not purely social. Such an agreement could raise problems from the point of view of competition rules if it were demonstrated that it has the object or effect of excluding other suppliers of incontinence products from the market. However, in order to assess whether or not there is a competition problem, the BMA needs more information. This information relates inter alia to the economic nature of the services provided by the Christian Mutuality, the market share of the Christian Mutuality in the relevant market or markets and the degree of competition in the relevant markets, sales prices, costs and margins of the products concerned, etc. The BMA is aware of the dossier, but finally let me know that, contrary to what you are suggesting, Mrs Depoorter, no complaints have been received from pharmacists or others. Your question about patients' right to free choice of care provider belongs to the competence of colleague De Block, the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u46	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. As far as the complaints are concerned, I was informed that they were submitted or are on their way. As far as the rest of your answer is concerned, I would urge you to do that research and to do it thoroughly, because it is about competition for the pharmacists, who are providers of care. Above all, I am concerned about accessible and affordable care for the patient, because patients who need incontinence material are usually elderly and less mobile people. The online alternative is not always so obvious either. A study is needed to ensure that our patients receive accessible and affordable care.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u47	Mr President, Minister, many consumers have ordered their Christmas and New Year purchases online in recent weeks. Also during the solders there will certainly be a lot ordered online. They often place multiple purchases on the same platform, but a simultaneous delivery is often rare. However, research showed that the consumer would prefer to be able to indicate in advance when his packages would be delivered. In addition, consumers could easily wait a few days before receiving the packages or prefer the packages to end up at one point. Several parcel services already take this into account and offer the service that consumers can send their packages to, for example, a pick-up point. In practice, however, this is still not the case for all packages, courier services or web shops. Madam Minister, have you already consulted with the various stakeholders on this issue? If so, what was the outcome of these talks? What practical and/or legal objections are there to delivering packages more bundled?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u48	Mr President, Mrs Houtmeyers, there has not yet been a formal consultation with the stakeholders on the issues you are raising. I suspect that it is mainly practical elements which make it difficult for the same consumer to combine supplies. This could have many reasons. I cannot give you an exhaustive list, but a few examples. It may be that not all the goods ordered by the consumer are in stock at that time. It may be that orders are made from a platform, while effective purchases are made from different companies that each individually vouch for the delivery. There may be a wide variety of goods purchased which cannot all be delivered via the same channel. I do not see direct legal objections to a more bundled delivery. Companies are looking for cost-efficiency and want to meet their customers' needs at the same time. That is why I am quite sure that they are indeed considering whether they can serve these two things through a bundling of supply. My predecessor asked the Central Business Council to consider how consumers could gain a greater grip on the delivery time for e-commerce. The Central Council delivered an interim opinion at the end of last year. That is also public, you can consult it on the website. It has focused on the sustainability of supplies and, in particular, on the burden mile of deliveries, to which it is estimated that 75% of total delivery costs and environmental impact would be allocated. The Central Council shall continue its consultative work on this matter. I'm not sitting still myself. I also feel that this is not always a sustainable model. Soon there will be a question on the program about free returns. So it also needs to be looked at in a broad story. I'm busy making contacts and visiting platforms. I am very well informed, but I have to operate within a European framework law, namely the e-commerce directive, which is actually very broad in that area. If we are to take steps forward, I believe that in future we will have to reach some sort of gentleman's agreement in which players commit themselves to doing certain things. Today we are working on the preparation so that we can see what steps we can take. However, you have made a very correct point. I also believe that other aspects are important. We all see that a package is delivered at 11.00 a.m. on New Year's Day, which is not really urgent at all. People sometimes wonder at that point what the hell we're doing. We have sent a letter on this matter to Commissioner Reynders, who is responsible for the matter. We also feel that this lives with colleagues from Germany, the Netherlands and France. Everyone has the same questions. This is a very legitimate concern and we are looking at what we can do about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u49	Madam Secretary, I understand the practical objections you raised earlier. The fact that you have experienced this personally shows that there is a need for a certain change and that there is room for improvement. We must work together with Europe to see how we can deal with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u50	Of course we can also shop locally, but if I say that now, of course I am somewhat out of character.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u51	Madam Minister, I hope I do not have to explain to you what is in the Economic Law Code about selling and selling. With two more days of solding, I hope you have been able to buy a solder or do so in the next two days. I put a little emphasis on the word'solder buy', because it goes wrong there once in a while. Nothing is what it seems and apparently that also applies to solder prizes and solder bargains. Most traders comply with the legislation in force, but a number of rotten apples literally almost beat the law up. This is not the least happening online, because the practice of adjusting a price is just a bit easier than in the physical world. The conclusion is the same: the consumer is being lied to and deceived. First of all, how do you relate to the problem? I have an idea of what you will answer, but I would like to hear it from you again. Secondly, what are the results of the measures taken in the past? How many checks were carried out by your department in recent years? What is the proportion of controls that actually detect a breach of the relevant legislation and what is the evolution of those findings? How many controls are you planning in the coming years? Or does that only happen on the basis of what is needed at the time? Thirdly, what is the evolution of the number of repeat offenders and what do you think is the cause of that evolution? Fourthly, does the FPS Economy pay sufficient attention to the practices of solders online? If so, how does he pay attention to this? Finally, are you planning additional measures to further prevent malicious practices in relation to the solder period? If you plan it, how will you take these measures? I look forward to your undoubtedly interesting answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u52	You're raising the pressure a little bit. My position on the subject is clear: correct information about the price and price promotion is essential for the consumer. Misdirection in this area is absolutely rejectable. The rules of law prohibit such deception, whether it is about selling discounts or price promotions outside the solder periods. Businesses guilty of it can be prosecuted. The Economic Inspectorate shall ensure compliance throughout the year with the provisions on display of prices, price promotions and price reduction. She pays particular attention to this during the solder period and also during other specific periods such as Black Friday. In recent years, the Economic Inspectorate has examined the reality of the announced price reductions during the winter and summer solders. There were 250 to 400 companies audited each year. I'll get you the table of numbers. The infringements detected during those checks are fairly stable. They fluctuate between 13 and 20 infringements a year. For this year, the Economic Inspectorate plans about three hundred checks, including during the solder period. I cannot give you precise figures on repeated cases, but I can tell you that repeated cases obviously play a role in determining the penalty and, where appropriate, the amount of the transaction proposed to the infringer. Online price reductions are also followed throughout the year by the Economic Inspectorate, as are controls in physical stores. That is what happened with Black Friday and I expect the results soon. There was even very extensive check-up during the previous Black Friday. Our country used to have specific legal rules on the indication of price reductions and the reference price. As a result of a judgment of the European Court of Justice, we had to abolish that rule. This has not made it easier for economic operators. I am therefore pleased that the omnibus Directive 2019 imposes more precise rules. It makes mandatory a reference price to which the price reduction is then applied. Furthermore, it determines exactly what the reference price is, namely the lowest price applied during a period of at least 30 days before the price reduction. This measure will clarify the situation and limit misleading price reductions. We need to transpose that directive into Belgian law by next year, so we are working to do so as quickly as possible. This will also help us to be much more focused, because the work of the Economic Inspectorate must not be underestimated. This is because price recordings must always be made on different days. For example, we receive e-mails that indicate that a washing machine costs 599 euros a whole year, while the price will be increased to 699 euros in December to indicate a solder price of 599 euros from 3 January. Under the new directive, too, this is completely legitimate, but it does not feel right. After all, there is no indication that the price increase can justify up to EUR 699. So there will always be things that are difficult to control. However, the reference price will already help us move forward. In addition to e-commerce, the problem is another great concern for me and we try to act against it as best we can.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u53	Madam Secretary, thank you for your detailed reply. I am pleased that we share this concern and that the relaxation of legislation in this area does not remove concerns about the practices of the solders. It is good to note that you will also check outside the solder periods, as on Black Friday. Perhaps your new measures will be effective in this respect, but if we see that the number of of offenders remains stable or even has increased slightly, while the number of controls is increasing, then perhaps we should also consider additional measures. You have good news, but at the same time bad news, so I can only hope that your measures will be effective in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u54	Madam Minister, the Dutch Authority for Consumer and Market Studies is conducting a market study on the activities of large tech companies in the Dutch payment market. With the research on Google and Apple, among others, the Dutch regulator hopes to find out exactly what these companies are up to in this matter and what its impact may be on consumers and businesses. The payment market has traditionally been dominated by banks, but the introduction of the PSD2 Directive creates a new reality. It has been introduced to stimulate innovation and competition in payment services. In addition to the opportunities offered by the new legislation, the ACM also realises that the entry of large foreign players entails risks to competition. For example, the ACM fears that the strong position of these companies in a market may be used to conquer another market. Madam Secretary, are the supervisors FSMA and BMA aware of these effects? Are they also carrying out such an investigation? If so, when can we expect the results? Should such a study not have been started, would it not be useful to apply for a market study?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u55	Mr President, the second European payment directive, the PSD2, makes it possible for new players to join the payment market. This Directive was transposed into Belgian law in 2018 and stimulates innovation and competition by allowing new players on the market to use new types of payment services, in particular payment invoicing services and account information services, whereby the new players can access the bank accounts under strict security conditions and the explicit consent of the consumer. The National Bank of Belgium, which is a supervisor, reported the following. In 2019, several authorisations were granted for such services, mostly to small start-up fintech companies wishing to compete with banks in the field of payments, but also existing long-established players such as Worldline NV and Isabel NV are expanding their service offerings with such new activities. In this context, the National Bank follows the market very closely. So far, none of the global global players such as Apple, Google and Alipay have offered to obtain a license to provide payment services. Both the National Bank and the ECB have already published studies on this theme in 2018 and 2019. The Belgian Competition Authority also carried out investigations into payment systems in the past. In October 2019, together with the Luxembourg and Dutch Competition Authorities, they published a joint memorandum on the challenges posed by the digital economy to competition authorities. They will continue to monitor the activities of large tech firms in the payment market.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u56	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. That was obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u57	Madam Secretary, last New Year's Eve was the first on which a general ban on the use of fireworks was in force in Flanders. Only where permission was given was fireworks allowed. Several fireworks vendors filed a complaint with the Constitutional Court in December to challenge the decision. Your services have now also opened proceedings before the Constitutional Court. You say that the general ban is disproportionate and contrary to European directives. Firstly, we could read in the press that you have sent a letter to your Flemish colleague, in which you propose to bring together the Flemish and federal administrations to find a solution. Has that conversation taken place yet? This is probably not the case, since proceedings were initiated before the Constitutional Court. Are there any options for consultation? Or is there a solution yet? If not, do you still urge your colleagues to do so? Secondly, how could the ban be amended to be in line with the European directive?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u58	Mrs Depraetere, on 6 December 2019 I was informed that two appeals for the destruction of the Flemish decree on the prohibition of fireworks were brought before the Constitutional Court. I want to be very clear. I agree with the aim of the decree, namely to avoid noise pollution for humans and animals. Nevertheless, the scope of the ban is very broad and insufficient account has been taken of the existing European framework and federal powers in the field of fireworks. After all, the Department of Security and Quality of the FPS Economy is also competent for this and one came into the field of the FPS Economy. A legal analysis by my services confirms that there is a real chance that the decree will be destroyed by the Constitutional Court. For these reasons, I have proposed to the Federal Council of Ministers to intervene in the procedure before the Constitutional Court in order to safeguard the interests of the federal government. But, as I said earlier, I support the objective of the Flemish Decree. That is why, by letter of 10 December 2019 to Prime Minister Jambon, I proposed that my services should sit with the competent Flemish services in order to draw up an amended preliminary draft decree that meets the requirements of the European Fireworks Directive and that the Constitutional Court's test can be passed. The intention of the decree can then be retained. In this way we ensure that the Flemish regime can be maintained and local authorities can continue to act. An adapted regime could be to limit the ban to the categories of fireworks which can cause serious noise for humans and animals. In this way, we respect the principle of proportionality. However, the ban, as it currently exists, captures all kinds of fireworks, without distinction, for example the simple ice fountain on a birthday cake. In a reply dated 2 January 2020, Flemish minister Weyts says that he believes that the Flemish decree will pass the test of the Constitutional Court. He has therefore rejected my offer to work together on a new decree, very friendly but also very firm. I regret that, because we have the same objective and we could come to a solution, but in order not to harm the rights of our FPS Economy, I must join in a procedure that could have been avoided. We shall now wait for the result and see what it gives. In any case, we are always prepared to work together on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u59	Madam Minister, thank you for the additional information and clarification. We will have to await the ruling of the Constitutional Court. (...) Yeah, it's gonna be a long time. However, I am pleased that you clearly support the objective. It may seem quite banal, but it's actually not. If politics is also done locally, people know how hard the issue actually lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u60	Madam Minister, after lengthy negotiations, four large banks have reached agreement on cooperation for the installation of ATMs. The banks will ensure full integration. That means there's gonna be a new company with a neutral brand name. By working together, they can not only reduce costs, but also form an optimized network. Five smaller banks take a similar initiative. For example, two separate networks are being developed next to each other. My group welcomes the introduction of these networks, because recent hearings in Parliament on basic banking services have shown that there is a certain demand for them. Madam Minister, has the government already spoken to the banks about the deployment of that network, given the importance for consumers? Can the government not play a role in the dialogue between the four major banks and the five smaller banks that are doing the same? It seems better to come to one system, doesn't it? In the press, in addition to the reports about the start-up of a network of ATMs, we could also read that banking will be more expensive this year. Of course, this is not positive for our consumers. In a so-called package account, this service is included in most banks unlimited in the fee paid each month, but in a classic current account the banks charge extra costs for that. The deployment of the new network therefore raises the question of what will happen to the cost. Would it not be possible to reduce costs, given the cooperation that brings efficiency gains? Is there any concrete plan for the deployment of that network by the banks? At what time will that happen? Will there be an investigation into where there is the greatest need for ATMs? Does anyone have any idea where ATMs would disappear and where they would join?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u61	Mr President, Madam Minister, recently several banks have announced the abolition of self-banking in their banking agencies – here we are talking about the devices that allow us to carry out banking operations such as consulting accounts, transfers, printing bank extracts – to replace them with digital applications. While we can understand the advantages of digital technology for banks, especially in terms of cost, digital technology obviously creates discrimination among our population and further increases the digital divide, particularly in banking. As of January 1, 2019, the population over 65 years of age represented 19% of the total population and 24% of the adult population, of which 7.3% are over 80 years of age. Of course, the banking agencies say they are helping to carry out the operations, but this means that this section of the population has to go to its agency during the hours of opening which are increasingly restricted and attains the autonomy of these people. Education is a hypocritical response, as it is obvious that cognitive functions at age 70 are less effective. A switch to digital as brutal as this is not acceptable. Beyond the elderly, there is a significant portion of the more fragile population that does not have access to digital technology, often more isolated, which will also be penalized and may become even more vulnerable. In parallel with the abrupt switch to digital, it is the cost of banking, of printing transfers that explodes for people who have not passed digital. For example, Financité performed a simulation at the end of 2019. For a 70-year-old who makes two house payments each month, four hand transfers and requests a bank statement by post, this can cost up to 111 euros, seven times as much as the basic banking service. It is obvious that not everyone will be able to offer these traditional banking services. Minister, it is undoubtedly a matter of discrimination and an infringement of equal opportunities for each of our citizens. Will 2020 be the year of the banking divide? What do you think of this evolution? Is there a dialogue with banking institutions? Do you intend to put in place measures to overcome the banking divide? Is there a solution that would require banks to pursue a bank service accessible to all with a self-banking offer? To what extent would it be possible to establish a universal banking service at least identical to the basic banking service? Of course, there is the question of the Bancontacts available, but in this case they are transfers, extracts and the availability of all these banking services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u62	Mr President, Mrs Depraetere Mrs Matz, I will first answer Mrs Depraetere's questions. As far as the answer to your first two questions is concerned, the decision whether or not to work together to operate a network of ATMs and the way this is done is a commercial decision of the banks themselves. I do not have the legal levers to intervene in this. With regard to your third question on the guarantees that banks should give about not increasing costs, I can tell you that there are already agreements in place within the sector on the provision of a number of free collections. The gentlemen's agreement of 2004, which was reached in consultation with then Minister for Consumer Protection, Freya Van den Bossche, states that there should be 24 cash withdrawals free of charge. This agreement does not stipulate that these withdrawals should also be possible outside the bank's own ATM network, but leaves the bank the choice. It is therefore possible that a bank charges a fee for cash withdrawals outside its own network. I come to your final question, Mrs Depraetere. Two weeks ago, I gave a comprehensive reply to Mr Burton in plenary on the cooperation that has been mentioned and the fact that these four banks want 95% of all residents to have a vending machine within five kilometres throughout the territory. We'll get you the answer so you can read it. Moreover, I continue to worry about the fact that, especially in French-speaking Belgium, there are still municipalities that charge fees on vending machines. This does not, of course, help to ensure that basic services are provided. Mrs Matz, electronic banking is increasingly becoming part of our company. It's a reality. There are several reasons. First, there is a change in consumer behaviour. The company is increasingly using e-banking and mobile apps to manage its banking business. For the consumer, it is an easy and orderly way to manage banking transactions. Of course, we cannot deny that cost-effectiveness also plays an important role for banks. However, I do not fully agree with your finding that older people would not be able to use e-banking or mobile applications only because of their age. I don't think we should underestimate the elderly. Many organisations and local banking agencies organise training for older people to learn how to use e-banking. Such initiatives seem useful to me for many people. I am indeed aware of the Financité report of 13 December 2019 in which the problem of the digital divide for the most vulnerable people is addressed. My administration is currently examining this report in depth. I agree with you that we must ensure that vulnerable consumers are not excluded by digital development. Some older people and people with disabilities will no longer be able to self-bank. However, I think we can go further. At present, basic banking services are not a solution for everyone. I have instructed my administration to identify in more detail recent developments in banking costs, specifically the costs of paper services, and to consider possible measures to ensure that everyone continues to have access to banking services at a reasonable cost.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u63	Mr President, Minister, I am pleased that you have indicated that it is intended to cover 95% within a 5-mile radius. This system also exists in the Netherlands and it appears to be working very well there. This initiative could therefore be very positive for consumers here too. However, the federal government has a role to play in this, especially when it comes to consumer protection in relation to these additional costs, which you also mentioned. That's definitely something to keep an eye on. The positive initiative should not be used to impose additional costs on consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u64	Madam Minister, I do not hide from you that I am blocked by your answer because if, indeed, a number of older people adapt, others cannot at all. If I ask you the question, it is because many people around me have come to me and told me that it will be impossible for them to adapt, because they do not have computers and they are not at all familiar with Internet technology. It is not necessary to underestimate a number of people, whether they are elderly or disabled, or more vulnerable audiences, such as disadvantaged audiences. It is important to have equal treatment. You have equal opportunities among your skills. It should also keep you at heart. I can't hear that we're holding our arms by saying: "This is digital evolution!" I can't hear that we're giving the feeling that "it's like this, and everyone has to adapt to it." I hope that your administration will quickly propose avenues for basic banking services. I live in rural areas. When citizens feel abandoned by public services – even if, in this case, it is a private service – whether in terms of transport or administration... This is how the movement of yellow vests in France, citizens who feel discriminated against and who no longer know how to access a number of basic services came about. Minister, I ask you to keep an eye on this and I am pleased that you have anticipated by asking your administration to verify what could be done to restore this equality of treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u65	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Ben Achor's 55002608 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u66	Mr President, as for any other matter for which the FPS Economy is responsible, there is information available on the website regarding the regulation. In addition, the consumer can always address the FPS orally or in writing in order to obtain further information. One can always turn to the contact center of the FPS Economy, which will refer to the right service where necessary. The nature of the problems can vary greatly. It is not envisaged to provide a single or specific point of contact for building problems. Consumers who believe that regulations are not respected must report to the hotline. In reply to a previous question, I said that I clearly feel that the hotline is not yet sufficiently known. It's at the bottom of the FOD's website. We are now looking together with the communication service of the FOD at how we can make that hotline more accessible, via app or other. The consultations I started with various actors have already led to a number of concrete agreements today. First of all, we work with all actors, including the FOD and people from my policy cell, to develop an infobrochure. This must be available against Batibouw and can therefore be given with it. Secondly, the two ombudsmen, the consumer ombudsmen service and the Reconciliation Committee on Construction, will work together to draw up a proposal to create a single body to which the consumer can address an out-of-court dispute settlement. It could also take on the role of a unique point of contact. As a timing for this proposal, we foresee the end of May. People are working on that. It will then be further discussed with stakeholders. They are already exchanging a lot of information with each other. That's good to learn from these disputes, including from the Confederation. Thirdly, the FPS Economy was commissioned, because there are often problems with advance payments and guarantees, to start further consultations with the sector. We hope to be able to make progress in this area by April.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u67	Madam Minister, I hear a lot of initiatives have been launched. That is positive, especially when it comes to the accessibility of the hotline. It may also be interesting to set up the hotline in such a way that it can be filtered per type of problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u68	Question No 55002641C by Mr. Ben Achour is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u69	Mr President, Mrs Depraetere, I do not need to convince you that our local traders have a lot of assets that they can play out, such as proximity, small scale, customer orientation and service, but everyone knows that today there is no clear and appropriate answer to the question of how small traders can best deal with the competition of mega-businesses such as Amazon. In the context you are setting out, it is extremely important that both European and national competition authorities are particularly vigilant with regard to the well-known Internet mastodons and are constantly monitoring the practices of these companies. Abuse of a dominant position, such as the use of predatory pricing, to eliminate competition, is contrary to the doctrine of law. The problem is, by definition, cross-border and therefore needs to be addressed in a cross-border way. The market power of the digital platforms and the new business models they develop are on the European Commission's agenda from the point of view of competition. They are also on the political agenda in the various Member States. Also know that the Belgian, Dutch and Luxembourg competition authorities have recently drawn up a joint memorandum. I have just told Mr Houtmeyers, in response to her question on the free delivery and return of packages, that there is an interesting report from the Central Council for Business which has examined this. That is where we are looking at the last kilometer or the last mile because there could be a lot of environmental and cost-efficiency, such as bundling. I am very limited there within a European directive which allows a great deal, so we need to explore with the players in the field how we can reach an agreement framework. I make a lot of visits and see a lot of people around this problem. I have also asked Mr Reynders, responsible for Consumer Affairs, to move something on the European agenda because I do feel that it lives everywhere. I have already said in several speeches that buying 10 pairs of shoes with the intention to send 9 back is not a sustainable model. In this kind of model, our local traders can't compete at all. We will therefore have to come to an agreement on this matter. We are making every effort to sit together with the parties involved and to see how we can deal with the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u70	Mr President, Minister, local traders do indeed have a lot of assets. Nevertheless, it appears that the digital market is growing. We recently had a very interesting discussion with the Bpost CEO on the issue, including on the return of packages. Large websites, such as Zalando, already show 50 percent of the packages. In solder periods it is about many more packages, up to 90% of them. Those numbers are really huge. I agree that this will require a European initiative in particular. However, the BMA could also play a role in this, especially in terms of price fixing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u71	Madam Minister, there is some concern about the communication of influencers on social media and the advertising associated with it. I took a look at what was on the table and your predecessor, Mr Peeters, said a year and a half ago that it was time for a Belgian regulation on social media influencers and how they deal with advertising. I have a few questions about it. Since then, nothing has been heard of it. Is that a file that's still on the table? Is it supposed to do something with that? Can we expect any initiatives about that? Your predecessor never made it clear exactly what he was up to. However, some work had already been done by the Advertising Council, which had made a number of proposals. Did his initiative go in the direction of the directives proposed by the Council on Advertising? Were there any plans to determine who's an influencer? In England, a criterion has been established for this. From 30,000 followers one is an influencer. Is there also a minimum age set? Otherwise, the direction of child labour will soon be taken. In this context, that may be a heavy word, but commercial deals are being made. Was that in the initiative? Can we expect anything about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u72	Mr Verduyckt, I would like to make it clear in advance that there has never been any legal initiative under my predecessor. Under certain circumstances, in particular when pursuing an economic objective in a sustainable manner, an influencer should be considered as an undertaking. So there are a lot of provisions of the Economic Law Code that apply to him or her. In this context, the Economic Inspectorate seeks to draw up guidelines to clarify how these influencers can comply with economic regulations. However, consultations with the sector have not led to consensus. My predecessor tried to reach a consensus on these guidelines, but that was not possible. In addition, the Advertising Council itself has also drawn up recommendations. Subsequently, the industry itself took the initiative to draw up recommendations. However, I do not think that its approach is the same. They are much more focused on the advertisers than on the influencers themselves. I can say that the Economic Inspectorate follows these practices very closely, even without guidelines. Until today, she's received one report on this. However, following an investigation, it was found to be unfounded. The definition of the enterprise is broad and comes from European law. There is therefore no unique criterion to decide from which moment a person acts as an undertaking. In the present case, the number of followers cannot be a decisive factor in itself. So I can only tell you today that the Economic Inspectorate is following this very well, but in the future we will still have to consider whether we should act more strictly. We'll follow that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u73	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I particularly agree with your last point, because in practice today we see that the social media channels have built in tools that influencers can use, but that is simply not done in Belgium. Other countries are a little stricter in this respect. That's where it gets better practice. The discussions afterwards are therefore better. This way people think much better about social media use. It is an important fact, because it is media that affect many young and vulnerable people. I fear that people there occasionally buy or do business that they should not buy or do.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u74	Mr President, Minister, a policeman recently discovered in the fine print of his balance insurance that he would not be covered if he died during work for the next two years. It was about a clause in his policy at AG Insurance. According to the insurance company, this clause has never been applied in fact and will not be applied in the future. I have the following questions. Firstly, do you know of any other insurance institutions that include this clause in their balance of debt insurance? Which institutions are we talking about? Secondly, AG Insurance says that they have never applied this clause and will never do so in the future. Is this true? Do you know of any situations in which this clause was applied? Was this ever reported in the past? Maybe this happened to other insurance companies? Finally, will you consult with the various insurance institutions to delete this clause? If they are not applied, perhaps it would be better to delete them?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u75	Mr President, Mrs Depraetere, I can be brief. I have good news. I've contacted Assuralia about this issue. The clause was only included by an insurance company in the terms and conditions and by no other. In practice, however, this insurer has never applied them. In addition, the insurer concerned, AG Insurance, has already officially declared that it will not apply this clause in the future and will delete it at the next edition of the general conditions. This seems positive to me. They have already published an addendum on their website to which customers can rely, pending the amendment of the general terms and conditions. This addendum also serves as an attachment to their contract. I can reassure all policemen and women that they will be insured for the next two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u76	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It was positive and clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u77	Madam Minister, Test-Aankoop made a communication a while ago showing that fitness subscription providers often make nice promises when concluding a contract, but that the information is unclear and that many clauses remain problematic. Test-Purchasing believes that there are too few controls and too few sanctions. This is also evident from the data you provided in response to my written question of 22 August 2019. In 2018, 15 checks were carried out from the FPS Economy, in 2019 it was only one more check. In 2018, 23 warnings were issued, in 2019 only one warning. The number of checks and sanctions is clearly falling. You stated in a response that you would request information from the Economic Inspectorate, hence my questions, Madam Secretary. In the meantime, have you received this information and, if so, what are its conclusions? There is a code of conduct for the sector, but according to Test-Achats there are too many loopholes in the network. Among other things, there are complaints about fitness clubs that refuse the cancellation, illegally silently renew the contract or simply change the terms and conditions. What concrete measures can you take so that fitness clubs can no longer find loopholes in the code of conduct? On another written question, you replied that the Economic Inspectorate is carrying out checks on the solar centres and that it is drawing up an action plan on this matter. Is there also an action plan on fitness centres in preparation? Does that seem interesting to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u78	Mr President, the figures provided by the FPS Economy show a decline in the number of reports in the fitness sector in recent years. In 2018, there were 33 and in 2019 25. Following these notifications in 2018, 4 checks were carried out, leading to 1 warning and 1 report. The latter was transferred to the competent court. The decline in the number of notifications has occurred since the code of conduct in the fitness sector at the end of 2015. As you yourself say, I gave you those figures in response to a written question. The figures you have also received from the FOD do not actually confirm the figures of Test Purchase. Given the limited number of notifications, I do not see any current reason for developing specific regulations. The code of conduct seems to have had an effect, even if the number of affiliated companies is indeed limited. I have asked Test Purchase to advise its members to also report the practices through the hotline. That's what I told you back there. If Test Purchase talks about many reports, which I cannot find in the notifications via the hotline or through what we get, then I can only act on the basis of what we have. It is therefore very important that if there were other signals, they would also reach the hotline. This is an important source, albeit not the only one, on the basis of which the Economic Inspectorate makes risk analyses and sets out its annual programme. It does give a clear indication. There are other priorities within that framework for me today, we have already had some here today. If we were to learn the opposite through reports and material, I would certainly take it upon myself to follow that further closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u79	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Does the FPS Economy always match the number of checks to the number of notifications, or not necessarily?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u80	There are, of course, priorities, if there are a lot of reports. However, it does not need to come through the hotline. This can also be done through, for example, the Economic Inspectorate, if it becomes aware of it during checks. It doesn't always have to do with numbers. However, our figures are falling, but we do not know which problems are all reported to Test Purchase. It remains important that they inform the Economic Inspectorate as soon as possible after receiving certain signals or seeing certain identical strategies in the complaints, so that they can act. We have also informed Test Purchase. Afterwards, that's a lot harder for us. It's an indication, but not the only one.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u81	This is important: it is not because there are few reports, that the problem does not occur. It would certainly be positive if the hotline were more accessible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u82	We can deal with three more questions, but I would ask you not to dwell too long, given the hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u83	Mr President, Madam Minister, on the website crocsauboutdufil.be or oplichtersaandelijn.be, the Federal Public Service Economy has published a list of telemarketers and companies collecting dishonest debts. The purpose of this list is to protect consumers from fraud that could be committed by listed companies. The scammers telephone consumers to make an attractive offer; they are often vouchers for travel or other products. The company then sends an e-mail for confirmation. But even when the consumer does not respond to the offer, invoicing flows and aggressive recovery companies are engaged. These collection companies are also often mentioned in this blacklist. This type of scam targets people who dare to defend themselves the least. It is in this context that your predecessor, the former consumer minister, Kris Peeters, launched the fraud prevention month, the Fraud Prevention Month, in April 2018. The campaign was to be organized annually with the aim of raising awareness of consumer scams. Minister, are you aware of your predecessor's prevention campaign? What prevention campaigns have been organised so far? Do you intend to pursue them? Are concrete measures taken against companies on the blacklist? If so, which ones? How many companies were on this blacklist at the time of its first publication? How many do we count today? Have some companies been removed from the list? If so, why? Finally, what should consumers do when approached by such companies? Can they find free help from the SPF Economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u84	The Fraud Prevention Month is an annual campaign set up by the International Consumer Protection Enforcement Network. It is therefore a European initiative, in which the Economic Inspectorate has been participating every year since 2006. Each year a different theme and approach are chosen. Last year was the theme of travel. In this context, the FPS Economy has made a video to warn against fraud in travel. This was spread through social media. This year is scheduled for two days under the Fraud Prevention Month, 30 March and 2 April, with workshops for social organisations on consumer deception in the broad sense of the word. The aim is to reach the target audience of the campaign through aid workers. Apart from the Fraud Prevention Month, awareness campaigns on fraud are carried out on a regular basis. For example, between 8 and 29 November there was a campaign on fraudulent collection agencies. Investigations are indeed being launched against fraudulent collection agencies by the Economic Inspectorate, in cooperation with the police forces, the prosecutors and the foreign supervisors. Where possible, telecom operators, financial institutions and Internet providers are informed about the modes of operandi. This can lead to blocking of online interfaces. The grey list of telesellers and collection agencies was published on the website of the FOD Econome on 16 April. This list contained 18 names by publication. Today there are 91 collection agencies and telesellers on this list, which is constantly updated. We advise that when people are contacted and are not interested, the message is clearly given: I do not want anything, I do not buy anything. If you receive a confirmation, you must read correctly the message received, and if you do not agree to a purchase you must respond immediately. When one is approached by a collection agency and one has not bought anything, but is dealt with aggressively, it is best to dispute the blame immediately. Don't pay me. I know this is often not easy. Collection agencies can often be very aggressive and compelling. Report this immediately via the hotline. When it gets really rough, go to the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u85	Minister, my wife was the victim. Yet, I assure you, she has character because she managed to silence me. I'm a former trade unionist! Despite everything, she told me she was gonna end up paying so much for these people harassing her. I won't let her. With your permission, I will call them and speak insultingly, but this is not a solution! I'm not the only one in this case, there are others. But those people who are going to pay because they feel assaulted, what about that money?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u86	A very important information campaign for the SPF Economy will begin because it is very important that consumers are well informed about fraud. This phenomenon is progressing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u87	Don't you give me permission to phone them with insulting words?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u88	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Prévot converted 55002843C into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 55002866C by Mrs Caroline Taquin is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 55002897C by Mr Roberto D'Amico is converted into a written question. The answer has already been delivered. We shall then come to the last question for this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u89	Mr President, Minister, the Economic Inspectorate has once again received many reports of victims of friendship fraud. During the first nine months of 2019 it would be 595 cases, which together would amount to a total of 4.6 million euros. Each time, the victims were initially approached via the Internet, mostly via Facebook or Twitter. Madam Secretary, that is why I have the following questions. Is the problem known to you? Do you recognise the problem that exists today? What progress has been made in the field of friendship fraud in recent years? Do we see that it is increasing, stabilizing or falling further? What measures have already been taken? In the meantime, I understand that your predecessor, Kris Peeters, launched another campaign in 2018 to tackle the problem. Has this campaign achieved its objective or are the stories we read in the press today the tip of the iceberg? What action points are you planning to take to tackle the problem? The next question is not insignificant. The non-profit organisation NENIU supports the victims today. Have you been in contact with that organization?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u90	Mr President, Mr Van Lommel, this problem is, of course, well known. The Economic Inspection has received almost 1,600 notifications since 2016, the start-up of the hotline. I will pass on to you the answer to Mrs Dierick's written question of November 2019. In it you will find the figures per year. I'll give you the answer right away and you can read it. It also contains the method: via dating site, via mail or chat. You can find all this in there. However, the FPS Economy notes that the method of approaching victims has shifted from email and dating sites to media and dating applications. When it comes to pure scams, the police and the police are, of course, responsible at first instance. Where a scam practice is also accompanied by infringements of the economic law under the supervision of the Economic Inspectorate, it shall also act and draw up minutes for the purpose of the public prosecutor's office. Apart from that, the FPS Economy also warns against friendship fraud via press releases, via the website and social networks. In June 2018, the information campaign "Too good to be true" was launched in which one of the three themes concerned friendship fraud. On Valentine's Day, the FPS Economy has revived the campaign on the theme of "Friendship fraud via Facebook." The campaign alone is displayed more than 600,000 times. In itself, this seems to me to be positive. In any case, efforts are continuing and this remains one of our priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u91	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I look forward to the information you will provide me. You campaigned on this last year around 14 February. Will that campaign be repeated now? Is that the point? I think we should keep this alive after all. Even though hotlines have been set up, we must continue to sensitise people to be careful. We have to stay ahead of the problem, because when it is reported it is actually too late.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u92	We'll check this out. Last year around Valentine we had the campaign Too good to be true, which continues. Mr D'Amico just had a question about fraud in general. This is increasing. We need to see how we can always better inform consumers. Strong repressive action must go hand in hand with preventive action. If it's done, it's too late. We have to be able to avoid it. We will make a strong commitment to this this year. With the FPS Economy, we look at what we can do with the budget of current business.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic097x.u93	Madam Secretary, I think we can certainly agree on this.
