ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic205x.u1	Mr Van Hecke apologizes. He asks a number of questions in the Justice Committee. That's why I'm replacing him as chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic205x.u2	Mr Minister, even though the lockdown measures are being reduced further and further, not only with us but also in other countries, it is clear that there will be a long economic downturn in the coming months and years. The Flemish Interest was the first to ask questions in Parliament, if I am not mistaken in February, about the impact of the coronavirus on our economy. At the time, the virus was mainly present in faraway China. In the meantime, the government has taken a lot of measures to protect our businesses and jobs. In fact, we have been as constructive as possible in this area and have supported many of these government measures. At the moment, both Parliament and the government have committed themselves to supporting, for example, the catering industry in the coming months. But more and more sectors are also calling the alarm bell. They feel a little forgotten. Often these are sectors that have to go longer in lockdown than the classic companies. I am thinking here of fitness centres, taxi companies, teachers and event companies. The list is extremely long. These sectors often do not have a voice to express their grievances to Parliament and to call for attention to be paid to their sector. That is why I am trying to do so, Minister, with my interplay. Today, many sectors, for which less attention has been paid so far, are still unable to reboot properly. What measures have you and the government taken to support what I call forgotten sectors? A number of general measures were taken, which are certainly necessary. For the sake of clarity, Flemish Interest advocates as many general measures as possible, in order to avoid a koterij of various rules. However, many sectors with specific needs need support and consultation. Have you consulted with the interest groups in those affected sectors? What measures have you taken with the government to save these companies from bankruptcy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic205x.u3	Madam President, Mr Van Lommel, you know as well as I do that this crisis has been the worst crisis in our country since the Second World War. The consequences for many self-employed and SMEs and their employees are disastrous. The National Bank of Belgium announced yesterday in its projections a recession of 9% by 2020. That's obviously huge. The lockdown was absolutely necessary to limit the pandemic. Some sectors were able to gradually re-open the doors. I am aware that many self-employed people have been confronted or are still facing major difficulties. However, you cannot say that they are the forgotten sector of the lockdown, because that is not true. From the outset, we have made every effort to help all the self-employed affected by the COVID-19 crisis, regardless of the sector. For example, 373,201 replacement incomes were awarded for March, 386,189 for April and 351,497 were programmed for May. A total of 402,202 self-employed persons who have already benefited from these measures for the duration of their interruptions are at this stage. The measures taken in the social status, which I will now explain in detail, represent EUR 2.3 billion in social crisis payments. This is without the EUR 850 million of support for the payment of social contributions. Since March, for example, any self-employed person can have a replacement income without red tape and without delay. All measures taken to support the self-employed are, of course, applicable to companies in the event sector, the cultural sector and the party sector, which are not yet allowed to open. All measures taken together can reduce the personal social costs of the self-employed. Selfemployed persons may apply for a reduction in provisional social security contributions or postpone their payment by one year. In the case of selfemployed persons in auxiliary employment or active pensioners, there is a shift to zero. This currently applies to social contributions for the first two quarters of 2020. A second important measure fully applicable to the self-employed is the temporary crisis bridging right for self-employed persons in the main occupation and persons treated as such. The right of bridging allows self-employed persons in main occupation who cease or interrupt their activity to benefit from a monthly replacement income of 1,290,69 euros or 1,614,10 euros for persons with a family burden. The same applies to self-employed persons who pay social contributions at the level of the self-employed in the main occupation. The other self-employed in the secondary sector and the active retired self-employed whose annual income is higher than EUR 6.996.89 may benefit from a partial benefit limited to about 50%. For others, for example the taxi sector, the right is also opened in the event of a complete interruption of activity. In this case, the monthly allowance shall be paid as soon as the interruption lasts at least seven consecutive days. These measures originally applied until June, but are now being extended at least until August for initial rights and strengthened with a new hatch, the right of bridging to support the restart. There are two conditions for this. Firstly, one must be active in a sector which, by ministerial decision, has been the subject of a complete or partial closure for more than one calendar month and which is still subject to restrictions during the reopening. The second condition is that it will also have to be demonstrated that the activities for the second quarter of 2020 are down by at least 10% of turnover or orders compared to the same quarter of last year. For the initial rights, the measure also aims at the other self-employed persons who are still to be closed after June due to the corona crisis. The condition is still to stop completely for at least seven consecutive days and to justify that this closure is due to the COOVID-19 crisis: reduction in activities, lack of raw materials, lack of profitability, etc. Madam President, I would like to mention three other support measures, specifically for the sectors in difficulty, including the catering, events or the out-of-town merchants and the frog stallers. They were defined in order to mitigate the socio-economic consequences that may result from a gradual resumption of activities. This is an extension of temporary unemployment until 31 December 2020 and a reduction of VAT to 6% until 31 December 2020 on all services, with the exception of all packages of drinks, of course. Moreover, in the heavily affected sectors which had to resort to temporary unemployment, an agreement was reached to grant a partial exemption from the payment of the farm levy for the first three months to encourage the return of workers who are now in temporary unemployment. We remain in contact with the representative federations of the self-employed in the various sectors. That is, of course, important. We've had several meetings with taxi drivers, foorkramers and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic205x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. It is true that the crisis we are experiencing today is the most serious crisis since the Second World War, and perhaps even from the period before it. That is why it is important to protect the entrepreneurs who create all these jobs as much as possible. You say that it is not entirely correct that they are forgotten sectors. You have cited a number of general measures that have been taken to protect, in fact, every entrepreneur, every self-employed person in the past period and also in the near period, by, among other things, the right of bridging to which you refer, or unemployment for reasons of force majeure, while maintaining 70% of the wage. Of course some sectors feel forgotten. That's how they feel. Perhaps this has partly to do with the attention that has been paid to the catering sector in recent weeks. That is not an insignificant sector. In fact, we were the first to submit a resolution on this matter in this Parliament in March, a few days after the lockdown. The catering industry has representatives who come to the media, who talk to the government and the like. Other sectors are much smaller and it is not so obvious to them. They don't think they have a mouthpiece with Brussels. The general measures you have just mentioned are indeed very important. I also think it is very important that part of the purpose of this interplay should be that we should dare to look at certain specific sectors, as we have done for the catering industry. This will enable us to assess the need for a specific sector in order to survive the coming period. After all, there are other sectors that may need tailor-made measures. That is why the government must consult as much as possible with these sectors, no matter how small they may be. After all, I often come into contact with small sectors, such as the private sauna sector. In the past period, they have prepared a whole file on how they could safely reopen. They want to proactively examine with the government what is possible and what is not. So they are all of very good will, because everyone wants to open up as soon as possible, but that does not mean that their survival cannot be endangered in the future. I therefore insist that specific measures may be necessary, as we have done for the catering industry. It is, of course, also important that the resources provided by the federal government to help entrepreneurs and businesses go as far as possible to whom they really need. We have always supported this in the beginning, with the right to bridge and such a thing, to this day, but now we must also dare to look further, not only to tomorrow but also to the day after tomorrow, to the coming months and years in which the entrepreneurs will have a real hard time and there will be more redundancies. I also said just now to Minister De Croo that the Renault Act will often be applied in many companies in the coming months and years. Now the government, the government and Parliament must ensure that the social costs that will then be incurred are not much higher than the costs of any measures that we now have to take, without, of course, falling into tax warehouses and various small measures. It must, of course, remain clear for everyone. I'll admit it. For different sectors, I certainly ask you to keep your finger on the pulse and talk to them so you can hear their grievances. Perhaps they also have some interesting ideas to come up with which the public authorities do not necessarily need to cost much, but which may be useful. I also ask for a number of tailor-made measures to be developed. In this sense, we have tabled a motion of recommendation for the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic205x.u5	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the reply of the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Self-employed, SMEs, Agriculture and Social Integration, in charge of Large Cities, - having regard to the loss of turnover achieved in several sectors since the outbreak of the coronavirus, - having regard to the step-by-step phasing-out of the lockdown measures, - having regard to the general measures taken previously by the Government as a result of reducing the economic damage caused by COOVID-19, - having regard to the government's previous commitments for specific sectors including catering, - whereas there are many sectors which need necessary and specific measures, but do not have a voice to express concerns to the Parliament and which threaten to 'forgot' them; - whereas these 'forgotten sectors' are also responsible for a substantial share of employment; - whereas certain sectors may resume their activities much more slowly and be exposed to higher economic losses; - considering the need to protect companies and their jobs; asks the government: - examine which sectors affected need additional measures to overcome the crisis caused by COOVID-19; - to develop, in addition to the measures generally taken, specific measures tailored to the specific sectors which may resume their activities more slowly and otherwise become 'forgotten'." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the response of the Minister of Middle Classes, Self-employed, SMEs, Agriculture, and Social Integration, responsible for major cities, - in view of the loss of turnover in various sectors since the appearance of coronavirus; - in view of the gradual relaxation of containment measures; - in view of the general government measures previously taken to limit the economic damage caused by the crisis of the VOCID-19; - having regard to previous commitments made by the Government in respect of specific sectors, including Horeca; - whereas many sectors require specific measures but, since they do not have a spokesperson to relay their concerns to Parliament, they may be "forgotten"; Whereas these "forgotten sectors" also generate a substantial share of employment; - Whereas the resumption of activities is significantly slower in certain sectors and exposes them to major economic harm; Whereas it is important to protect the enterprises and the jobs they generate; Asks the government: - to identify the sectors affected by the crisis of the VOCID-19 which require additional measures to overcome it; - to draw up, in addition to the general measures already taken, specific measures adapted to those sectors where the recovery of activities is slower, at the risk of the latter being "forgotten". A simple motion was tabled by Mr Benoît Friart. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Benoît Friart. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic205x.u6	Mr President, I seem to have tabled my question twice. Of course, I'll only ask them once. One answer is therefore sufficient. Minister, during this period a lot of people have difficulty in paying, for example, for paying their telecom bill. The telecoms services have played a very important role in recent months. On the one hand, because they have ensured that emergency services have always been accessible, but on the other hand because they have ensured that the Internet connection of people at home has worked well, allowing people to work out easily from home or to attend school. Of course, telecommunications services also played an important role in mental well-being, especially since telecommunications services were often the only option for contact. The Telecom Act of 13 June 2005 provides that, in the case of an unpaid invoice, operators may place subscribers on a minimum service. They may still call the emergency services, but they can no longer use the other services. Putting people on a minimum service should be absolutely avoided in these times of corona because this is necessary technical contact between people, not just contact with emergency services. In addition, a minimum Internet service is important for anyone who works from home or who has to go to school from a distance. Hence my questions, Minister. How did operators apply Article 119 of the Telecom Act from the start of the crisis? What measures were taken by the operators not to shut down people or companies in these important days? How long will these measures be in force? How will operators handle unpaid invoices during the crisis? Is there any way to get rid of part of that debt? Finally, can specific payment plans be drawn up that take into account the particular financial situation that many families are in because of the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic205x.u7	Thank you for your questions. At the time when the government began to announce the exceptional crisis measures which had to be closed down and the social life that had come to a standstill, the schools that were closed down immediately went into consultation with the operators, who, of course, also saw the importance of Internet connectivity for distance learning and for the things that have been introduced for business. We have urged operators to apply very reluctantly when measures on COVID-19 are in force for the gradual closure of services in the case of non-payment of telecoms accounts, which is essentially the subject of Article 119 of the Telecoms Directive. It has been agreed with the telecoms sector that it does not go into the details of how it is applied, but rather to do it in such a way that people can stay connected. I therefore assume that the reluctance shown by the operators will persist as long as the crisis measures remain in force. An important factor in this is that some restraint is now in place, with a view, for example, to taking exams in higher education and re-starting companies. Over the last few weeks, we have taken a number of initiatives aimed at maintaining connectivity. It is not essentially about debt cancellation, because that is something from the past, but we have urged operators to contact us so that payment options can be agreed and a flexible plan can be drawn up. People have sometimes had less revenue during this period, so the operators have committed themselves to doing so in a good way. The operators have dealt with this in this way, with tolerance on the one hand and making good agreements with the people themselves on the other. This shows that it is clear to operators that the policy is tailored to the needs of many citizens and businesses and to the problems they have had and that this policy will continue as long as some of these crisis measures remain in force.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic205x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We have all been able to see that the operators have made efforts over the past few months, such as raising the data volume for those seated at home. That is not obvious in itself, but they did it anyway. So that's definitely a good thing. It is also positive to hear that they are reluctant to close customers and that payment plans are being drawn up. I think this can make a difference to a lot of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic205x.u9	Mr Dierick has her question No. 55006817C withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic205x.u10	Minister, the auction of the specific 5G frequencies has now been postponed to 20-21. In order to be able to start with 5G, in a number of municipalities the less and less in use 3G network has been transformed into a kind of 5G light, but then on the already existing 3G frequencies and cradle hardware. However, some municipalities have already raised objections to this method, partly because they were not informed in advance. In some municipalities, the 5G-light network was even shut down again. Many citizens have questions about the possible health impact of 5G radiation. Several groups have already protested against 5G. Of course, 5G is an important milestone for our economy. The wireless, digital society is growing rapidly, resulting in more data and the necessary bandwidth. The self-driving cars will need 5G. All kinds of sectors can use 5G, including healthcare, to transmit real-time medical information and the like. 5G is important for our society, for our economy. However, we must not throw away any possible impact on public health. Will 5G light be rolled out in more municipalities? Do you have eyes on that? Will there be prior consultation with the municipalities? Will further research be carried out on a possible impact of the 5G radiation on public health and nature in the short and long term, both for the low frequencies and for the high frequencies above 6G? Hopefully a number of specific groups can be heard and it can be proved that 5G is not really dangerous. Are you in favour of rolling out 5G in the first phase in the sectors and areas where it is most necessary? That would also be a solution. These are the industrial areas along the highways for self-driving cars and so on. For example, our companies can still use 5G. Then, possibly at a later stage, when there is more clarity about public health, 5G can be rolled out into residential areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic205x.u11	Madam President, I must start to navigate a little, because I had prepared a very comprehensive answer to the various questions, but I will try to answer very concretely the questions of those who have bothered to be present. The other questions can be answered in the rest of the answer. It's still a theme that affects a lot of people. Many citizens, or at least some of the citizens, are concerned about the roll-out of 5G and the radiation associated with it. As a federal minister, I do not have competence over radiation standards, because that is a regional issue, but of course I have an opinion as a minister and as a scientist. In the last 30 years, a lot of studies have been carried out on different forms of radiation, in essence 5G is no different than 2G, 3G or 4G, and all studies show very clearly that there is no impact on public health. Standards have also been established on the basis of these studies to ensure that radiation does not exceed certain limits. These standards are issued by the World Health Organisation. Each region in Belgium complies with these standards and these standards are a lot stricter than those prescribed by the WHO. So a lot of the things that are told about this are actually in the fake news category. That does not alter the fact that we need very clear communication. It must be very clear that there is absolutely no issue with public health. We must all play our part in this. Operators should consult and provide information and transparency. The different governments must do the same. The Regions must provide information through websites. We have also taken a number of initiatives. I refer in this respect to my reply to Mrs Verhelst's question of 26 May 2020, in which I explained in more detail what initiatives we are all taking on this issue. However, our country must not miss the transition to 5G. Our society, our citizens and our businesses, need 5G to be rolled out. We must become the frontrunner in this area in Europe to ensure that citizens and businesses can benefit from it, that innovation can develop and that we really do not miss that train. Indeed, many citizens and businesses would benefit from 5G. If I am asked if 5G is really necessary, then my answer is absolutely yes. We will have to take that step. I can give you a few examples to show you how much this stage of 5G is necessary for citizens, businesses and our society in general. The most striking example is the possibility for white area citizens to access connections allowing them to telework and watch videos. I'm also thinking about the digital divide. Experience clearly shows that consumers in countries that have already deployed 5G have access, via mobile networks, to performances similar to those they used to have with a fixed connection. This proves that people are able to overcome the digital divide. Then I can quote the many services offered by connected objects. In short, the examples abound to demonstrate that we need to continue the deployment of 5G for the benefit of society, the citizen and the company. In some municipalities, Proximus is installing the 5G light, using 4G waves to increase the speed of service. On the other hand, we have seen that in Wallonia there are many questions. This is why this company responded, suspended the deployment of 5G and deactivated some 5G light antennas. This is what happened in Huy on 4 June, following an application made by the municipal authorities on 25 May. Since then, a constructive discussion has begun. It is therefore necessary to explain that 5G is a real asset for the country as a whole, and not only in large cities. At 5G we also face other challenges, for example regarding network security. Thanks to the analyses made by BIPT in recent months, progress has been made in this safety dossier. Of course, there must also be a solution for the final roll-out of 5G by organising an auction. At the request of the regions, the discussion on the proceeds of that auction focused on the media share. The study has now been completed and approaches my proposal from a few months ago. I hope that we will be able to resume the discussion soon after the corona times and the regions are currently preparing their comments on this study. The BIPT did not want to waste time waiting for the auction procedure, because it is essential for us that projects are already submitted. In order not to hypothesize the future development of 5G in Belgium and to allow players wishing to become active in that market to do so, the granting of provisional rights of use has been chosen. Article 22 of the Economic Law Code provides that BIPT may lay down the provisional conditions applicable to the rights of use for the frequency bands for which no allocation procedure has been established. On 31 January, BIPT published a communication calling on the parties interested in acquiring the rights of use in that band. Five applications have been declared admissible and in the meantime the consultation on the draft decision of the BIPT Board concerning the allocation to these operators has also been terminated. The BIPT is currently processing the results of the consultation. Of course, in the meantime, the 5G development in other frequency bands can continue. A number of players, including Proximus, are currently working on this. I believe that it is absolutely necessary to sit together as soon as possible after the corona crisis to organise the auction and to roll out 5G in Belgium, in full transparency and in good consultation. Our country would really do well not to miss the 5G train.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic205x.u12	Minister, thank you for your particularly comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic205x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer, all the more so because I have come here specifically from Limburg to ask my question. Nevertheless, I still have one small thought. In the meantime, we know more about the possible impact of the low frequencies, which have been in use for many years, on public health. But is there an effect on public health of using the high frequencies of 6 gigahertz and above and if so, what is the impact? There seem to be few scientific studies around me, especially about the long-term impact. That is why I asked you whether you would be in favour of rolling out 5G for all high frequencies initially in industrial areas, where the economy and businesses could benefit from it, and then later, when we have more insight into the impact of the high frequencies, to roll out 5G in the densely populated areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic205x.u14	Minister, a lot of students are in full exam time. Universities and colleges have recently communicated that they are also taking exams online. Of course, software, access and the quality of the Internet connection are very important for their smooth operation. On the user side, the software must be properly installed and the Internet properly configured. So there are a number of factors involved. Although telecom operators' networks have been able to cope with the increase in use in recent months without major concerns, it is nevertheless important to have sufficient guarantees that the digital exams can be conducted safely and smoothly. Minister, what guarantees can the telecom operators provide? Will the BIPT take on a coordinating role or check the quality? What backup procedures may be provided for?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic205x.u15	The BIPT has asked operators to minimise and, if necessary, delay interventions with an impact on the availability of telecommunications networks. However, they do not always have that in hand, because at times, for example when other utilities are being addressed, adjustments to the network need to be made. When interventions cannot be delayed, it has been asked to make no adjustments to the mobile and fixed network at the same time, so that one can always fall back on one of the two. The BIPT has included a coordinating role for the telecoms sector. For communication with the educational institutions, it organized a consultation with the sector together with the FPS Economy. It was agreed that the educational institutions themselves should take care of the back-up procedures. They are responsible for this themselves, according to their own needs and insights. They are responsible for the proper conduct of the examinations and other activities that take place online.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic205x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for the clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic205x.u17	Then we come to the end of the sitting. Thank you, Minister, for being here.
