ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u1	Minister, I will ask you about sustainability in Defence, as a follow-up to the questions asked during the previous parliamentary term by my colleague Gwenaëlle Grovonius. In response to a written question tabled last February by my colleague Mélissa Hanus, your predecessor said: "In summary, Belgian public procurement rules, which are based on European public procurement directives, take environmental and sustainability aspects into account". However, the NGO WSM reported that it had conducted a survey of the working conditions of employees of Belgian companies based in Romania to produce textiles. According to the report, the rights of workers who are employed in Romanian subsidiaries of two companies registered in Belgium would not be respected. Whether in terms of wages, benefits such as meal vouchers or compliance with occupational health or safety standards, the investigation indicates that there are many deficiencies in these two factories, where Belgian army uniforms, in particular, are manufactured by underpaid Romanian workers. Minister, what is your reaction to the release of this report? What suite have you booked? What is the status of your department in ensuring the sustainability of clothing purchased by Defence and, more generally, of all Defence supplies, which is covered by international social and environmental standards?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u2	Mr President, first of all I would like to express my joy at being back in this Parliament. I wish you all the best of the rest of the session. Like my colleague Mr Bayet, I was surprised last July to read the report of the NGO We Social Movements denouncing the fact that two companies providing uniformed defence did not meet our working conditions standards. These are the Motexco and Siorom factories, Romanian subsidiaries of the Belgian Seyntex and Siorom groups. As my colleague Mr Bayet has said, the NGO points to shortcomings in terms of wages, meal vouchers, health standards and safety at work. Minister, is this report true? Did you investigate his truthfulness? Does Defence consider switching suppliers and taking action? Finally, can you assure us that no other supplier of our army is in such a case?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Defence is aware of its role as an example to society and is striving to achieve maximum sustainability in the context of its tasks and, in particular, in the field of public procurement. The public procurement rules provide that companies and their potential subcontractors wishing to participate in a public procurement contract must comply with all applicable environmental, social and labour law obligations under the penalty of exclusion from the market. During the entire performance of the contract, the successful tenderer must undertake to comply with the binding rules laid down in the eight fundamental conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO) and to enforce them by its subsidiaries, subcontractors and co-contractors throughout the production chain. This is a criterion of exclusion in any public procurement and uniforms. To this end, the contractor shall sign a certificate of honour confirming this undertaking, which includes non-discrimination and equal pay for work in accordance with ILO Conventions 100 and 111. If these eight agreements are not complied with by the successful tenderer, and this applies as much to its subsidiaries as to subcontractors and co-contractors, it will have to take all necessary measures to remedy the situation or to obtain the goods concerned from other suppliers. The contractor also has an obligation to provide the Defence with the opportunity to consult the records of its subsidiaries, subcontractors and contractors related to the purchased products. Failure to comply with this obligation may result in the termination of the contract. In addition, in the area of uniform procurement, sustainability certificates or certification of adequate environmental management systems are systematically required.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u4	You do well to recall the role that Defence must have as an example, which, like other jurisdictions, must be irreproachable. It is our credibility in the face of the values that we defend internationally. I regret, however, that in your reply you did not make it clear whether or not these companies met the criteria. You simply recalled the legislation, and I would have wanted to know a little more about it. I will come back to this in a later question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u5	My question, too, has been somewhat squandered. You recalled the rules but you did not tell us whether sanctions had been imposed on the supplier concerned or whether a change of supplier had been envisaged. I have no doubt about the effectiveness of the National Defence Procurement Service, as demonstrated by the purchase of the masks. I am sure that purchases are subject to environmental and social sustainability criteria, but I would also like to see consequences for the supplier concerned. Furthermore, you have not confirmed that you have verified the veracity of this report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u6	Minister, our assembly has adopted a resolution aimed at defining a series of concrete measures – including aligning the salaries of our members with those of the rest of the federal public service – in the area of human resources within Defence. This aspect has been neglected for too long, particularly during the previous legislature, where the purchase of state-of-the-art equipment was preferred rather than seeking to improve the well-being of staff. It must be noted that the consequence is an army where all the visionaries are in red: attrition, postulants, retirements, and more and more jobs in need. Minister, if negotiations are under way and there is a central dialogue with the military unions, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you give me an update on the work of the Transition Team that was set up last September to address the many challenges facing Defence in the coming years in terms of personnel, equipment and infrastructure? The press recently indicated that this working group, led by General Thys, had taken initial decisions and that others were expected shortly. In this context, what about consultation with the social partners? With this resolution, the House gave you a clear mandate. What follow-up will you give in the coming weeks and months, particularly with regard to collaboration with federated entities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u7	I am particularly looking forward to seeing what the HR resolution will say in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u8	Mr. Bayet, the Transition Team officially began its operations on October 18, 2019. The transition team's one-year mandate came to an end on September 1, 2020 with the appointment of Major General Thys as Vice-Chief of Defence. In the area of human resources, a first assessment was submitted to the Commission on 25 January 2020. The activities of the Transition Team supported the initiatives of the various services. The transition team was never in place of an existing department. All the topics and initiatives that required social consultation were discussed through existing channels, as in the past. The 2030 HR Vision was presented to this committee on January 25. This resolution is further support for the further implementation of this vision with, of course, respect for social dialogue. We are committed to it. The files under way will be taken over by General Major Thys in his new role.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased that social dialogue remains a major element in the negotiations within the army. Like our committee chair, I hope that very good things will be written in the Government's future Defence Report. I think she deserves it. It has shown this more than once either during the health crisis or in the crises we have experienced in the past. As you know, Defence personnel really face a dire need to feel valued, which has been demonstrated by the high rate of attrition in our army. I believe that, among other things, this valorisation, and this is referred to in the resolution, is an improvement in the salary conditions of Defence personnel. I think it's not normal that after 25 years of career, a volunteer soldier earns about 3,000 euros less than a police officer with the same seniority. These two functions are of great social value and deserve recognition, particularly in terms of the wages they offer. First and foremost, it involves aligning the salaries of our members with the rest of the public service, as called for in the text we have written. We owe them that because they have not lacked courage or dedication at the height of all the crises we have experienced. Knowing that the last salary increase dates back to the early 2000s, it would be more than time to give a strong signal to our members by giving them the recognition they need.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u10	Mr Minister, a few weeks ago or even a few months ago, we had a debate in this committee on Mr-type frigates. You told us at that time that these ships would have the systems, weapons and sensors necessary for self-defence, and that they are also designed so that they can be equipped with additional or different sensors and weapons systems. According to a letter from the Dutch Minister of Defence, these ships will cost between 1 and 2.5 billion euros. In Belgium's strategic vision, one billion euros has been allocated to this post. What is the expected cost for these frigates? Why is the Dutch estimate between EUR 1 and EUR 2.5 billion? How can this be reconciled with the fact that the strategic vision of Belgian Defence only allocates one billion euros to this post? Are these plans realistic and justifiable, given the limited budget associated with the economic shock caused by the coronavirus pandemic? Is it possible to postpone or even cancel these purchases? Will we participate in the Aegis anti-ballistic missile defence system? If so, in which areas could these vessels be deployed? What will be the geopolitical, military and strategic implications?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u11	Ms Moscufo, in 2018, the Dutch Defence and the Belgian Defence Minister signed a memorandum of understanding for the replacement of frigates of type M. In this memorandum of understanding, an amount of EUR 1.06 billion (2017 price) is foreseen for the purchase of two Belgian frigates. The Dutch acquisition procedure in this project requires that the amount foreseen by the Dutch Government be confidential. To ensure this confidentiality, the Netherlands uses a bandwidth of 1 to 2.5 billion euros in its communication. The actual amount foreseen by the Netherlands for this project is mentioned in the MoU. The letter B concluding the investigation phase, which was presented by the Dutch Secretary of State, Mrs Visser, to the Second Chamber on 24 June 2020, was drafted in consultation with Belgium and describes the basis at the time, price and production level for the continuation of the project. Aegis is the combat management system used by the United States on board their ships. Our future frigates will not be equipped with this Aegis system. The Navy is currently exploring the possibility of using future frigates to participate in NATO's ballistic missile defence mission. Any additional modifications required for this purpose are outside the M-type frigate replacement project. NATO's Ballistic missile defence mission aims to protect the European population, territory and troops deployed against the threat of ballistic missiles. Ships are likely to be deployed in maritime areas where they could protect Europe from such missiles, such as the Mediterranean. The anti-ballistic missile defence is of a purely defensive nature, as reflected in the term itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u12	Minister, I must not, of course, remind you of our view of what you call "a defence that aims to defend itself". We have another point of view on this, and reality shows that this is not always the case. That said, you haven't answered... well, if you've partially answered the question by saying it's confidential. It's still a bit of a problem if it's confidential, knowing how much money our country is going to invest for it. We really have questions about the percentage dedicated to buying these frigates when we know that, as my colleague says, there is a big problem of salary revalorization for our members. In the Defence budget, a political choice is made that, until now, is not to value the work of our military. In the situation of the pandemic, we believe that there are really other priorities. We regret that you are not considering the possibility of cancelling – this is our wish – or at least delaying this. We will remain vigilant about the actual cost of these purchases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u13	Minister, the Michael I government made the sensible decision in 2018 to purchase 34 F-35 devices. Meanwhile, all kinds of plans are under way within Europe to develop a sixth generation of fighter jets. There are two projects in particular and it is important for us to know the government's position on this. On the one hand, there is the Franco-German-Spanish FCAS programme in which the first steps are taken towards prototypes by 2026, but at the same time there is also the British project for the Tempest fighter, supported by Italy and Sweden and apparently the Dutch also show great interest in that device. Both sides of the debate are trying to stress that the mistakes of the past must not be repeated, with competing European aircraft competing for the same orders, which is why I would like to ask you the following questions, Minister. Has the government been approached in recent months by the initiating countries or at European or NATO fora about possible participation in the initial phases of either project? Collaboration helps to spread the investment burden, but different requirements each country wants to have its own button on the device............................................................................................................................................................................................ Can the government already assess the viability of both projects on the basis of the start-up phase? Does it foresee recurring problems in one or both projects? Under the previous government, it was decided that EUR 369 million would be reserved for FCAS. Is the DOD continuing to subscribe to the FCAS programme or is the Tempest programme also being studied? From what point do you consider it appropriate to subscribe to one of the two programmes? Finally, as a fresh shareholder of a consortium of aviation manufacturers, does the government have any idea whether the aircraft industry in our country will be involved in any way in the initial phases of both projects? Mr. Secretary, those were my questions. I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u14	Mr President, Mr Buysrogge, neither the Foreign Office nor the Defence Office have been contacted in recent months for possible participation in the initial phases of either project. Tempest fighter's project as well as the Future Combat Air System project is neither in the initial phase, in which the initiating nations examine what they think should be present in the capacity and what challenges the aircraft should be able to cope with. Both projects are thinking of bringing together manned and unmanned devices, so that together the capacity of the sixth generation can be defined. Since there is still no clarity about the future of the two projects, it is impossible to get an idea of their viability or of the possible combination of a project. A choice for one of the two solutions, to the extent that both solutions will go through the initial phase to a next step, does not occur at the moment. At present, there is also no clear picture of the possible financial impact of participation in either project, as the initial phase has not yet been completed. The initiative for cooperation with the Belgian aviation industry is currently in the hands of the initiating countries. The British-Swedish team around Tempest organised an information meeting at the British Embassy earlier in 2020 to which the Belgian industry concerned was invited. Such an initiative is not known for the FCAS programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u15	Thank you, Minister. I am pleased to hear that at this stage there is no explicit government preference for either project. There was no request from the initiating countries concerned. I trust that our experts from the Defense Department will follow up properly on what the opportunities might be. I am pleased that there is no preference for one project or another. It seems to me important not to miss the plane, to be attentive and to take an initiative at the appropriate time to be involved in the development of the project as early as possible, both for the defence and for the benefit of our aviation industry.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u16	Minister, our defence needs its reserve more than ever to meet the challenges it faces and continue to fulfil its tasks. The staff shortages, the ageing population and unforeseen circumstances such as the control of a health crisis and an increased threat of terrorism increase the workload only for our regular soldiers. As part of the strategic vision, we therefore decided to revive the reserve. A well-trained and motivated reserve is not only a solution to our personnel problems. It is also the ideal tool to strengthen the link between the army and the citizen and to enrich Defence with the knowledge of different profiles. The roll-out of a successful reserve is, of course, a difficult task which must create a good framework for citizens to perform a military function alongside their daily job. We're getting signals that not everything's on the verge yet. That is why I have the following questions for you, Minister. A large number of reservists would fail to meet the medical requirements. With a relatively older target audience and a more limited commitment, the job does not require the same impeccable medical condition as regular recruitment. Where does the DOD stand with the implementing measures to adjust our requirements? Secondly, reservists provide services to the Defense during their days off by means of recall days. Reservers of the medical component had to take leave during the busy corona period in the hospital to work unremunerated for Defense. What changes will be made to the pecuniary status of the reserveists? Where is the initiative to better support the reserveists and employers? Thirdly and finally, many of the activities of the reserve would not yet be covered by an insurance which carries the risk to the reservist. Defence would still be in negotiations with the insurance sector to find an appropriate solution. What is the status of this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u17	Mr President, Minister, I agree with Mr Francken's questions. Reservists are indeed part of the attraction of our army. If it's okay for them, it's okay for the DOD in general. I refer, in my question, to the problem of recall days. I have the same questions as the previous speaker. I also refer to a resolution from the previous legislature, which included a number of issues relating to the attractiveness of the statute of reserves and the need to improve them. I'd like to get an update on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, reservists are employed in the same positions as active soldiers and must therefore meet the same criteria. It is the function for which the reserve military postulates which is decisive in medical selection and not age. We make a difference between three types of functions: operational, support and specialized functions. Different medical criteria apply to each job. Some of the reserve soldiers are provided by the employer with facilities to carry out recall days. We have also heard that some reserve soldiers are taking leave to carry out recall days. How many reservists do this is not kept. When a reservist carries out a revocation, it shall be paid. Per recall day one gets a wage that depends on the degree of the reserve military. Currently there is a project to customize the day betting. In doing so, the current system of daily betting a ratio of 1/30 of a month bet will be replaced by another scheme that is more market-oriented, i.e. a ratio of 1/20. Consequently, the reserve military carrying out twenty recall days will receive a full month's wager. A project employee support to support reservists and employers has also been launched. This project is still in a very early stage. Defense covers work accidents during re-enlistment days. Once the recalls have been carried out, the consequences are no longer covered. In the short term, it is intended to take out insurance by the Defense Department, so that the full recovery period is covered. A purchase request was made with the necessary specifications. An application for prior agreement was also launched and received a favourable opinion from DG Bud Fin, the GMR and IF. Several initiatives were taken to modernise the reserve framework and make it more accessible within the scope of the existing statute. For example, additional recruitment opportunities were provided, such as a first job experience in the form of a full-time job for newly graduates. A student course was created for students, bachelors and masters, to get acquainted with the organisation during their school holidays before starting a career at Defense. From 2021 onwards, the training of the candidate reservist will be adapted to the target group and the specialized military training module will only be given if necessary for the position. Young people can prepare for the specific tests of school knowledge in the specialty technician at Defense as a petty officer, extension of the Preparatory Division Framework project, under the status of candidate reserver. The dual learning project, in which a target group aged between 18 and 26 is given the opportunity to pursue military civil training for certain bottleneck professions, can now also be achieved through the reserve status. In addition, age limits for inclusion were adjusted. Specifically this is for the candidates volunteer-soldiers maximum 35 years instead of maximum 26 years. For the candidate framework this is a maximum of 20 years instead of a maximum of 34 years. Re-integration opportunities for ex-military and reserve soldiers who were already on permanent leave were also eased. The number of reservists currently stands at 5,391, of which 1,979 belong to the trained reserve, as they regularly perform for Defence. Currently, there are eight reservists on a long-term shipment. During the period 2019-2020, a total of 30 reservists carried out long-term shipments. However, important efforts still need to be made in terms of support for employers. A number of previous contacts with employers and employers' organisations to examine the possibilities of joint use of staff, where the reserve status could be an important instrument, were taken back. These talks were temporarily suspended due to the COOVID-19 situation. In any case, making the reserve attractive to employers and individuals requires wide-ranging initiatives outside the Defence framework, involving coordinated actions with other public authorities, schools and businesses. The preparation therefore requires special attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u19	Minister, I understand that you are rolling out an ambitious plan for our reserves. I welcome that. I think this is important. The age is also increased. You may know that in our party our former spokesman and now head of the cabinet culture Joachim Pohlmann is a reservist. He got that education, too. I am very sorry that the age has not risen to 42 years. I could've been a part of it. I'm too old, unfortunately. I think it is good that you are making the framework more attractive step by step and that you are removing a lot of problems. You say that the negotiations on insurance are ongoing. You are also working on the age and reintegration days of one twentieth. You say that you also want to talk to the employers further to make the combination more attractive. I'm mayor in Lubbeek. With us in the municipal school works a sports teacher who is also a very active reservist. He has a lot of problems combining this with his status as appointed teacher in our municipal school. I have already spoken to Minister Weyts about this and have asked whether a solution can be found. Mr Minister, I would simply like to give you this thought in relation to education, a lot of Los Angeles teachers are fit and willing to work for the Belgian Defence Department through the reserve. There really is still a lot of margin there, if that statute is improved. It is a tip, Minister, hopefully you and your general staff will work on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u20	Mr President, Minister, I will certainly reread what you said about the re-vocational days. I understand from your reply in particular that many initiatives have already been taken in relation to young people and schools. Another fact, and that is indeed the key, is the employers, who often play a crucial role in whether someone can fully perform his function as a reservist. Not everyone has an understanding mayor, like the previous speaker, who might have wanted to be a reservist himself. It is important that we do not leave that path. Maybe Corona has thrown some soot in the food now, but it's definitely gonna have to be picked up again in the next few days. I'd like to be a part of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u21	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Cogolati's 55008058C was converted into a written question and has already been answered by the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u22	Mr. Minister, almost everyone in our country knows the site Breendonk, the Death Hall and the Royal Museum of the Army and the Cristian History, but few are familiar with the War Heritage Institute. This was established in 2017, but it didn't go without problems. Last year, the Court of Auditors pointed out that many implementing decisions were still missing, and on 12 August 2020, the Court of Auditors announced that it had examined the Institute's staff policy and administration. It noted that, three years after its creation, the institution was still not fully legal-institutionally regulated in several respects as required by the founding law. The decision to implement the Founding Law on several points has still not been published in recent months. This obviously has implications for human resources policy, including the statutes. I have the following questions, Minister. Why was the implementing decision on the operation and organisation still not published? Has the management contract with the federal government with the institution's strategic and operational objectives already been approved by the Governing Board? That was planned for early 2020. If not, what is the cause of this? Why is the Institute still not included in the Law of 22 July 1993 laying down certain measures on civil service, which creates legal uncertainty for the administrative and financial status of staff? Why have the administrative regulations of the Management Committee and of the Scientific Council still not been adopted? We know that you have requested an action plan from the War Heritage Institute in order to meet the numerous recommendations made by the Court of Auditors, including in the area of personnel policy. Could you explain that a little bit more? What are the deadlines here? In order not to put the WHI into liquidity problems, the debt to the State Treasury would be settled this year. What's the status here?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u23	Minister, in 2017 my group had already strongly challenged Minister Vandeput's willingness to create the War Heritage Institute. The purpose of this paper was to bring together the Veteran Institute, the Royal Museum of the Army and Military History of the Cinquantenaire, the Breendonk Fort Memorial and the Defence Historical Pole. We voted against in plenary on 27 April 2017. We saw it as a challenge to the federal anchoring of memory work, but also an institute built on at least a brink. We had therefore acted with a kind of foreknowledge, since the Court of Auditors' report seems to give us reason at this stage. During this legislature, I have had several occasions to ask you about the War Heritage Institute and the Royal Army Museum, as well as your predecessor, especially on September 11, 2019. Today, three years after its establishment, the Court of Auditors finds in a report many shortcomings within this institute. These are particularly relevant to its personnel policy. Thus, the decree implementing the Organic Law establishing the War Heritage Institute has not yet been published. Nor has the Institute been incorporated into the Civil Service Act, which creates legal uncertainty regarding the administrative and financial status of staff. The management contract between the War Heritage Institute and the Federal State, which is provided for in the Organic Law, and which must include the strategic and operational objectives of the organization, has not yet been concluded. In addition, no language framework has been published, which in particular prevents recruitment in the Brussels-Capital Region and creates an imbalance. There is no formal legal basis for granting a public sector pension to members of the Institute's statutory staff upon retirement. Finally, the Court of Auditors' report notes that the internal rules of procedure of the Management Committee and the Scientific Council have not yet been approved. Many other problems are pointed out, such as irregularities in pay. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Following the publication of this report, which is a statement of the question and which has been the subject of a dialogue and answers by the administration and the Minister in the meantime, what has been or is your reaction to the various problems raised and, above all, what actions are you going to take, or have you already taken, to put an end to this situation, described by the Court of Auditors, and which is totally unacceptable? If you act, what schedule do you intend to carry out these fundamental operations and corrections? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to inform you that a question has been raised by the PS Group to organise an exchange of views with the people of the WHI and to organise a place visit, but that will be discussed next week during the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u25	Yes, indeed, Mr. President. Thank you for reminding me. We also requested, through this intervention, a hearing of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decision to implement the organic law created by the WHI is ready, but the King cannot sign it until there is a full government with parliamentary coverage. The same applies to the Royal Decree on the linguistic framework of the Institute. The management contract is still under consideration and is subject to the cooperation agreement with Defence which is still under negotiation. The War Heritage Institute was incorporated in the Act of 22 July 1993 instead of the Institute of Veterans - National Institute of War Invalids, Veterans and War Victims by Royal Decree of 26 May 2020. Furthermore, it should be noted that Article 4 of the Royal Decree of 20 June 2017 transferring the personnel of the MRA, the MNFB and the Defence Historical Pole to CAAMI and the WHI ensured that transferred personnel retained their qualifications, grades and classes, thereby limiting legal uncertainty. Work is currently under way with the Minister for Pensions to establish a formal legal basis for the granting of public sector pension to statutory WHI staff. The internal rules of the Management Committee have been in force since 21 November 2019. The rules of procedure of the Scientific Council have also been in place since 21 November 2019, but the approval was delayed, first because the chairman of the Board resigned and later because prevention measures relating to the corona crisis were given priority. The Regulation should be adopted by the end of 2020. Some of the problems raised by the Court of Auditors have already been resolved. This is particularly the case with the substitution of the War Heritage Institute (WHI) at the Institute of Veterans-National Institute of War Invalids (IV-INIG) in the Act of 22 July 1993, or with the irregularities in remuneration in the form of premiums prior to the WHI, which have ceased since 1 January 2020. As regards the other points raised by the Court of Auditors, an action plan must be submitted to the Management Board by the WHI. The Institute's Director General ad interim and my Government Commissioner have had further discussions on the subject recently. As far as the debt to the State Treasury is concerned, a three-year depreciation plan is agreed with the Defense Department. The debt will be settled in three instalments, in 2021, 2022 and 2023, for the respective amounts of EUR 4 million, EUR 4 million and EUR 3.895,939,11. My answer to the various questions raised in the report can be found in my letter of 29 May 2020 to the Court of Auditors attached to the Court of Auditors' report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u27	Mr President, I am pleased to hear that there may be an exchange of views. With your permission, I'd like to be there. Thank you, Minister, for the technical adjustments. Nevertheless, it remains a regrettable matter. The fact that, in the absence of a fully-fledged government, a number of KBs are not yet fully on track is understandable, but it does seem strange. At the PS, which warned about a number of things in 2017, they may now laugh. We'll keep following up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u28	I do not want to play a bad game of words, but the "inheritance" that you carry with your predecessor Didier Reynders is the result of the will of Minister Vandeput, which was to carry out as soon as possible a "cosmetic" reform, consisting of the removal of any reminiscence of national and federal designation. Thus, nothing has been done in scientific and historical terms and no measures have been taken to guarantee the quality, legality and sustainability of the institution in general. Such a finding is deplorable and does not make me laugh. We are talking here about an institution whose role is to spread among the population the duty of memory, to pay tribute to those who built this country in adversity, facing enemies who fought democracy and freedom. I thank you for what you have done so far and I think it is essential to resolve this issue once and for all. We owe it to the women and men who made our history, often at the cost of their lives and freedoms.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u29	The next question by Mr Vandeput No. 55008093C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u30	Mr. Chair, Minister, we recently learned that Defence was thinking about the use of sniffing dogs for the detection of VOCID-19. It would seem that it is easy and quick to train dogs to detect the virus. Several studies conducted in Europe, France, Germany and the United States would demonstrate the effectiveness of this process in detecting people with VOCID-19. In this context, it would be possible to test the population with Defence ESD dogs normally trained to detect explosives. In two months, they could also learn how to detect people with coronavirus. This technique would also have the advantage of having a low cost and being easily adaptable if the virus mutated. He "supposes" to teach them to detect the smell that will have taken the virus after mutation. Minister, how are you exploring this solution in your department? How would it fit into a more comprehensive policy linked to the other authorities concerned? Should this solution be explored further, how many teams (dogs and dog handlers) would they be made available? From a practical point of view, where would these tests take place? Taking advantage of this question, could you give me an "inventory" of the number of dog masters and dogs currently present in the Defence force and the military quarters where they are present? Are these figures likely to increase or decrease in the coming years?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u31	Minister, you know it or you don't know it, but I'm a big dog fan. I have a very nice dog of my own. So, when there comes a question about dogs, which is still linked to the DOD, I have to jump on that. On a slightly more serious note: I think it is a good thing. As the colleague of the PS has already said, this is also being used in a number of countries. I am very curious and wait for the green light to be able to use dogs, as we could also read in the article in Het Nieuwsblad. What exactly are we waiting for to give the green light? Should these dogs receive special training for this purpose? Are they here yet, or aren't they? What time frame are we talking about? And above all, where would these dogs be used in the first place? Is there a prioritization? Are we going to focus on rest homes, residential care centers, in places where vulnerable people are? I think it's interesting to know what the plan of action is.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u32	Mijnheer de voorzitter, ladies and gentlemen, although the use of dogs is already a fact in the United Arab Emirates and Lebanon, there is currently no scientifically validated methodology. Several individual initiatives have been taken in Belgium, but unfortunately there is not yet a consolidated project. In particular, I can mention the initiative of Mr. Fournaux, who, as a Provincial Member of Parliament responsible for education, including police and civil security schools, has agreed to a partnership with recognized dog breeders to train a dog in a very short period of time, all in collaboration with the Governor of the province of Namur. In order to align the various initiatives, a first coordination meeting between the various parties involved, namely the Defence, the police, civil protection and academic institutions, was held on 20 August 2020. Meanwhile, a second meeting was also held with a more academic character. At the moment, there is an analysis in progress that takes into account all possibilities, but it is too early to give a result. The number of dog masters and the practical modalities of the possible screening will be included in the study mentioned above. For the inventory of the number of dog masters and dogs currently part of the Defense Department, I refer to the answer to question No. 306 of 27 April 2020 to Michael Freilich on the Interpowers Kynological Unit. It is therefore a little premature to give you further details on the use that will be made of these dogs. In addition, we are awaiting a U.S. Defence study, which will provide us with particularly useful clarifications to assist, if necessary, in the detection of VOCID-19. The training time of a dog is very short, in fact: after seven or eight weeks, it becomes capable of sniffing the virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u33	Minister, thank you very much for your answers. As I did not know that the question had already been asked to you in April, I will read carefully question 306 on the number of dog handlers. For the rest, Defence already has experience in training and using dogs to detect a whole series of things. If we can move forward on this issue, it would be a positive initiative, as no one knows if the virus will bounce back – and, if so, how – during the winter period. It is clear that if experiments work elsewhere, they could also succeed at home. My bitch says hello from afar, but she's still too small to learn how to detect the virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u34	Eight weeks of dressage!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u35	It is difficult to answer seriously after what we have seen here. I didn't bring my dog. Thank you, Minister, you are right to say that without sufficient academic knowledge, we cannot lead the way. I'm looking forward to seeing what the American investigation will prove with you. I believe that this is part of the innovation in the field of public health and in the field of defence, so I hope that, despite the fact that this is not yet used anywhere, if the academic studies produce results, we can be a precursor to this at European level, as we are in many other areas of public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u36	Minister, when you took office, you made your intentions on this matter clear quite quickly. You said we had to get rid of the security orders. At first there were difficulties with your colleague, Minister De Crem. That's understandable. There is a need to agree on the transfer. I can get into that. In May, you then said that there was now a withdrawal plan. The expectation therefore arose that the operation would stop, except for a few exceptions as with the few nuclear sites, which is also a ending story as far as I am concerned. I was therefore surprised when, at the end of August, I saw the report of the Council of Ministers and read that the extension of the OVR had yet again been approved. So I wonder what the state of affairs is now and what the intentions are for the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u37	Mr President, Minister, at the end of 2019, in your capacity as Minister of Defence, you announced that you would work on a phasing-out plan for Operation Vigilant Guardian, the operation to ensure the monitoring of sensitive areas in your own country, in support of the federal police. Allow me to give a brief chronological survey, just as Mr Verduyckt has done to a lesser extent. At the end of 2019, you made that announcement, following your predecessor Didier Reynders. At the end of January, you said that the number of soldiers would remain the same for the time being, but that the police would be able to carry out the security of the sites discussed again by September 2020. In an exchange of views on the COOVID-19 crisis in March, you replied that at that time, of course, Defence had different priorities than the implementation of the phasing-out plan. Your fellow Minister Pieter De Crem seemed to be walking another slope and said that a government in current affairs does not have the power to do anything about the phasing-out plan. At the end of June it was decided that there would still be no phasing-out plan. Minister De Crem immediately said that as long as the OCAD does not decide to revise the threat analysis, there will be no phasing-out. Afterwards, you said that the operation would end permanently by September 2020, with an exception here and there. At the end of August it was reported that she would walk until at least early October. It's starting to look a little like a never-ending story. I'm not alone with my concerns. As you know, the military are also asking questions about communication and the eventual extinction of the operation. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. What is the current state of affairs? In the meantime, is there an overall agreement on the phasing-out of the OVG? That was still the reason why the operation was not completed until further notice. Despite your announcements, the planned deadline of September 2020 was clearly not sustainable. Why not? What was the reason for that? Is this reason the global agreement that is still lacking? Finally, when do you plan to stop or reevaluate the OVG or modify it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u38	Like my colleague Verduyckt, I was very surprised when I read the report of the Council of Ministers on the continued deployment of military personnel on the ground. As I have already done in September 2019 and February 2020, I am asking you the same question today: until when will this operation continue? The two Chiefs of Defence (CHOD) have expressed their hope that this mission will end, and I think it is more than time to find a solution in this regard. What is your plan to achieve this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u39	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the context has already been outlined, so I will not repeat it. However, I would like to say once again that we are continuing to repeat our question. We hope that progress will be made, even though I understand that it is not easy. From your answers to previous questions, I understand that you share the view that the OVG should be phased out, preferably as soon as possible. You yourself have made that clear a number of times, and it is not illogical, because the defence department has been asking for this for a long time. What is the current situation, Minister? The phase-out is gradual. How many soldiers are still on the streets under the OVG? What should the next government, in the hope that it will be there soon, do to complete the phasing-out? What steps do the relevant ministers have to take, or is everything already in place, so that a subsequent government can take that decision immediately?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u40	Mr President, as I said in my reply to the committee on 15 June last, the takeover plan still has to be politically approved. Discussions will take place at political level during September on the basis of the latest assessment of the threat by the OCAD at the session of the Strategic Committee and the Coordination Committee for Intelligence and Security and subsequent to the National Security Council. A decision may be taken within the full-fledged Council of Ministers. As you said, Mr Mahdi, I hope that the future government will take full office as soon as possible, so that it can take the necessary political decision. You also asked a question about the number of soldiers present. Slightly less than 300 soldiers, including the reserve, are still active in the execution of the security orders.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u41	I will not repeat our position. When I hear this it also seems to be a bit of a procession of Echternach. This is about 300 soldiers, not 3,000 or 30,000. It has taken long enough, and I regret that this is still being moved to the next government. We should have taken a final position on this for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your brief answer. During the last session of this committee, you said that as of September 2020, the police could carry out the security themselves, except, of course, on the nuclear site in Flanders. You haven't been able to live up to that. It's getting really uncomfortable for you. You seem to be a toy in the game between yourself and Mr. De Crem. It is also painful for us, because we always have to come back to this issue and note that the agreements have not been complied with. It is certainly painful for the military themselves. For a long time they have been asking for clarity about this temporary operation, which was from the outset. They also ask for a concrete perspective on the tasks that they may or may not have to carry out in the context of Operation Vigilant Guardian and until when. In your reply and past answers, I miss the fact that there is apparently also a communication problem with the military trade unions. They say that the Home Office has had plenty of time to organise a reorganisation of police forces to ensure that the military no longer always have to stand in or be called in. That's too easy a solution. They are not entirely wrong in that, if you ask me. Internal security policy is failing. Police forces are not organized to do what they have to do and to ensure that they can re-focus on a number of tasks that they do specifically serve and also focus on operations outside national borders. Belgium also has its tasks in this regard. This compelling story works counterproductively for the recruitment of young soldiers. This prospect is really not attracting young soldiers that we need to attract at the moment. I hope that this will be clarified very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u43	Minister, thank you for your answer. I would like to supplement it with the hope that the next decision will be the right one. I thank you, in any case, for expressing the same hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u44	Mr. Secretary, you know that I usually speak highly of you. I am still a little hungry here and I was worried when you said that you are looking forward to the decision of the OCAD on the threat level. I'm assuming that if nothing changes the level of threat, in the worst sense, there's no reason to believe that we can't complete the phase-out. It is perhaps a difference of interpretation that I am making or a concern with me that is not necessary. For the rest, I don't think you're the plaything of anything. There is a phase-out that is going on and for which you yourself have taken care, for which I am grateful. The only question I have, but according to Parliament's rules, you cannot answer it, or perhaps it is a good thing that you should not answer it, is the following. If we do not have a government within a few weeks or months, then you, as Minister, are prepared to make it clear that the phase-out of OVG must continue. But ministers do not always answer hypothetical questions and you should not answer the question. Perhaps that's reassuring for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u45	Minister, the newspaper De Morgen had cited eight concrete and serious examples of abuse in the military paracommando training camp in Marche-les-Dames. I was able to ask you about these unacceptable facts on July 15. In particular, you said: "Some incidents reported in the press are already the subject of a judicial investigation. I have requested an internal investigation, the results of which will be presented at the end of August". You added: "A denunciation point internal to our department will be set up within the complaints management department. An integrity policy has been established within Defence to detect and correct inappropriate behaviour. Any member of the Defence may denounce any suspected violation of integrity." As you know, my group has a text to protect whistleblowers in the army. If, of course, the justice system is to be able to investigate these serious facts, as I mentioned in July, could you nevertheless indicate the measures taken, since my previous question, at your level and internally? Finally, what about the internal mechanisms designed to prevent the recurrence of such acts or, worse, to remain silent by the victims?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u46	Minister, I have warned you of premature conclusions in this matter. I remember it very well. I said at that time that I myself have some experience with certain journalists and media who come up with great stories about possible abuses and human rights violations, which later than not turn out to be very helpful, if thoroughly investigated. I advised Mr Hofman, Admiral and now also the CHOD, when he was appointed and the subsequent exchange of views in this committee, to always be very careful with premature conclusions. I said the same thing to you, Minister. The press is doing her job. I was also contacted by the journalist who asked me what I knew about it. I have always said that this has to be thoroughly investigated before serious accusations have been made. Unfortunately, in the debate, I have once again had to hear heavy accusations from several colleagues regarding our troops, the leadership of the army and the leadership in Marche-les-Ladies. I'm sorry about that. The study again shows that this may not be a battle in the water, but that it is less heavy than was said. It is not in proportion to the words used at the time. I regret this. We're probably gonna be going through this for the next few years. It may be in a situation where you will be the majority and we will be the opposition. I can tell you that I am committed to making sure that I do not just try to go along with that and will first try to wait for the investigation to get shot at one or the other. I think that is very important. I believe that politics in this country, and certainly in Europe or even in the West, is often very emotional, based on very little data knowledge and file knowledge. Often that's about pure emotion being exploited. I have often experienced this as Secretary of State for Migration. I hope everyone learns from that. Mr Minister, can this report be delivered to the Committee on Defence? Did the investigation into the incidents lead to elements from which the Defense decided to compensate victims or to sanction the instructors involved? Chief of Staff Hofman is asking for an action plan. The audit service made four proposals to improve training, which require even more concrete results. What changes do you and the Defense Staff want to make? One of the findings is that the current system of trusted persons is not working properly. Is there any thought of a central reporting point against abuse? What are you gonna do with that? Do you expect the ongoing judicial investigation into some events to lead to the same conclusions as the internal investigation? Do you have any news on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u47	Mijnheer de voorzitter, collega's, following media publications on irregularities during the paracommando training, the Inspector General was instructed by CHOD to conduct an internal investigation. The investigation team was able to count on full cooperation and sincerity from the competent authorities and services and had access to all necessary documents and reports. The nature of the facts and/or incidents cited is so different that one cannot speak of a recurring or recognizable pattern. These are more one-off events, spread over a 5-year period between 2015 and 2020. Two of the ten incidents cited are not related to commando training. Four of the ten incidents cited do not contain any criminal elements. And four of the eight training-related incidents cited are potential criminal cases. At no time did the commando training centre want to hide the facts reported by the media at the higher level. Communication and information with higher levels have always been very transparent. In six out of ten incidents cited, neither organizational measures nor improvement measures have been initiated, but precautionary or disciplinary measures have been taken and, where appropriate, contacts have been established with the competent judicial authorities. Clear organizational measures and improvement actions were taken in four out of ten incidents cited. The learned lessons identified were the subject of a special briefing by the Chief of Corps in order to avoid further incidents. Two judicial investigations have now been completed, one of which is closed and the other has resulted in partial acquittal. Disciplinary action was also taken in two incidents. With regard to possible irregularities or inappropriate behaviour, a member has several channels to report them: the traditional chain of command, persons of trust for well-being and integrity, prevention advisers for psychosocial aspects of work, the Defence Complaints Management Service, the Defence Integrity Coordinator, religious and moral assistance, and the Federal Integrity Ombudsman. Practically, in addition to the traditional chain of command, the commando training centre has a trusted person and a moral consultant two days a week. The structures do exist within the commando training centre, but in practice it has been established that few or no reports of irregularity are received via these channels. Almost all the facts contained in the press articles were the subject of an internal police investigation, after which some were referred to the court and others to the war raid. The command thus knows in almost all cases which individuals are involved. Partly because of the protection of privacy, the internal report is not released publicly, but it is available to the committee members if they so wish. To date, there are no further requests for compensation. The research team has indeed identified improvements and made recommendations for this. In addition to optimising the accessibility of reporting channels, particular attention is paid to harmonisation and standardisation between the different platons and training courses. In the event of the slightest doubt as to whether a suspicion of potential criminal offences would occur, the competent authorities shall be immediately informed and the internal communication of the ongoing judicial investigations shall be improved. The outcome of the ongoing judicial investigations is currently unknown to the Defense Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u48	We will look at how we can practically organise access so that Members can look at the document. I'll let you know about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u49	Mr President, I thank you, in particular, for your suggestion. I believe that, indeed, this will dispel any misunderstanding and allow the commission to see how seriously the Minister and Defence took the incidents. Perhaps the subject has been inflated by the press, but it remains true that the facts denounced by it are proven. Some have been the subject of judicial investigations, two of which are closed. Others are still in progress. What I welcome is that precautionary and disciplinary measures have been taken and that there is a clear will on the part of the Defence to ensure that, on the one hand, structurally established facts, which do not seem to be the case here, are obviously fought firmly and, on the other hand, that all measures are taken to prevent such acts from happening. What matters to us, the Socialist Group, is that the Defence is irreproachable in the same way as the police. Obviously, individuals can commit more or less serious slippages. While waiting every time they derail independently of their actions, they question the whole body and function. I think that in the regal functions such as the army and the police we really have to be blameless because we embody the Nation in all its components and in all its values. Thank you for the work and I would like, from the bottom of my heart, to thank the Defence for the seriousness it has shown in managing this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I look forward to having a look at that report myself, even though, of course, I believe your report on it. I will not say that it was a battle in the water, but it was mediatic and political overshooting for one piece, again. In the twenty years I have been allowed to stay on the Rue de la Loi, I notice that this is becoming more and more common. For a piece that also undermines parliamentary and political metier. It is sometimes a real circus of emotions, where the truth is constantly being violated or where it is constantly about biased accusations, which I find particularly regrettable. Recently we have been able to experience this in the case of Mr Chovanec, where our Prime Minister was heavily attacked, and in the end it turned out that the cabinet had not made a mistake at all, or at least I do not hear from it anymore. However, I still wonder what actually went wrong in Charleroi on the judicial side. Today the Attorney General is discussing this at a hearing in the Chamber and I am curious. This is how it actually happens over and over again and now it appears to be the case with the case of abuse during training in Marche-les-Ladies. I think that the dignified way in which Mr Bilo, among others, has reacted is very correct. I also believe that you have taken a very correct and dignified position. In this way you can certainly represent me as a minister, because you have handled this dossier very well, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u51	Minister, as you know, Belgium has recently acquired four remotely piloted aircraft: MQ-9B SkyGuardian, drone aircraft. The aircraft is presented as a real innovation, being the first of its kind to meet certification standards equivalent to flying aircraft, which will allow it to fly in unsegregated civilian airspace. Following the acquisition of several of these aircraft by the United Kingdom, a declaration of intent was adopted by our two countries to study their cooperation on this unmanned aircraft system. This would include collaboration, for example, in the areas of interoperability, training, maintenance and capacity building. In the face of such a declaration of intent, the political context in which it is based cannot be avoided. While this new collaboration seems to be taking place between our two countries, the date of December 31, 2020, on which Brexit will be fully effective, is becoming ever closer. The question of establishing such a partnership in a post-Brexit climate, not to mention a possible No Deal, deserves to be asked. At the same time, we must also think about the deepening of defence-related issues within the framework of the European Union. What missions will these aircraft have to perform in the future? Can you give me more details on how this cooperation will take place? If so, would it be possible to extend this cooperation to other European States which have acquired the same principles? The date of Brexit approaching very soon, how is Belgian Defence preparing for it? Have there been any scenarios planned, depending on whether or not there is a No Deal? Is there coordination between European Defence Ministers on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u52	Minister, I agree with the question put by Mr Bayet. I will confine myself to my specific questions to explain the agreements concluded and the concrete expectations that are placed on our country under the agreement. How will practical implementation be implemented? Secondly, the British gave the green light for the purchase of three drones with an option to purchase thirteen others, albeit in their own version of the SkyGuardian, known to them as Protector. Is that type sufficiently compatible with the model our Air Force wants to acquire from General Atomics? Thirdly, the British already foresee that specific guided bombs will be integrated into their aircraft. Is that included in the cooperation agreement on the arms programme of our drones to be purchased? Finally, under the name Team SkyGuardian Belgium, five of our defence industry companies are involved with SkyGuardian. Will they somehow be involved in aspects such as maintenance under the cooperation agreement that has been properly concluded? I look forward to your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u53	Colleagues, MQ-9B is responding to the capacity gaps in the European Union and NATO to conduct intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance missions. Capacity will provide the necessary elements of assessment, thus enabling safer and more effective operations on the ground. The statement of intent referred to was adopted by three parties, namely the United States Department of Defence, the Belgian Department of Defence and the United Kingdom Department of Defence. By highlighting the strong defence cooperation and the strategic relationship between the parties, the individual acquisition by the parties of the MQ-9B drone system provides an opportunity to further strengthen this trilateral cooperation. Potential collaborations may include the coordination of operations in Europe or other regions, the exchange of information at strategic and operational levels, the improvement of defence capacity, the readiness of logistics and interoperability, the strengthening of collaborative capacity through training and exercises, the study of possibilities for co-location or pooling of resources, including maintenance or training resources, and the sharing of information to support airworthiness, certification and access to airspace. To date, only the United Kingdom and Belgium have signed a contract for the acquisition of the SkyGuardian MQ-9B, but it appears that other countries are also acquiring it. Potential collaborations could therefore be analysed at that time. The end of the Brexit transitional period is fast approaching and in this context, Defence is participating in the process of assessing and analysing the situation at the National Crisis Centre (NCCN). At this stage, there can be no consultation between European ministers in a particular area outside the general Brexit negotiations. There is therefore no plan in the strict sense for Defence, but it remains ready to contribute in support of the federal government. The statement of intent does not cover any aspect of armament. In order to arm the Belgian MQ-9B SkyGuardian, it is necessary to submit it again to the Belgian Government for approval. As already explained on 25 October 2018, when the Belgian Government took the decision to purchase the MQ-9B SkyGuardian, the manufacturer GA-ASI will establish a business-to-business relationship with the Belgian industry for the production and maintenance of the systems. Although the follow-up to the establishment of such agreements between the industries does not fall within the competence of the Belgian Defence Department, it can be read in the press that certain contracts have already been concluded effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u54	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hope that we will be able to make a positive assessment of this in a few months' time, and of course I welcome the potential collaborations, both with the other states and with the Belgian companies that will be able to work around these drones.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u55	Minister, I agree with your answer. It is important that these b2b contracts can be concluded effectively. It is up to the FPS Economy to take that further and to follow that up, so that those contracts can be concluded effectively, including in terms of maintenance and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u56	Mr President, in order to make the task a little easier and to make further progress, I would have liked the minister to give us an overall picture of the situation in Mali after the coup d'état which we learned at the beginning of August. I would like to know what the consequences are at the international level. We will still have an opportunity to discuss this in camera this afternoon. I would like to know the consequences, especially for our missions on the spot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u57	In the French media, it is already reported that the Belgian Defence is planning to further strengthen its presence in the Sahel region with the deployment of a Combined Arms Tactical Subgroup. This mission would only be presented to Parliament in the Operation Plan 20-21. This would not be an extension of our participation in EUTM Mali, MINUSMA or Operation New Nero, but a direct integration of our troops within Operation Barkhane under the direction of France. No coincidence would coincide with the first deployment of CaMo's vehicles by France on a foreign mission. Mr. Secretary, can you confirm that Defence is working on an even greater reinforcement of the army mission in West Africa? What units and capacities are envisaged? Can you confirm that we are working on a direct participation of our country in Operation Barkhane under French leadership? In the Sahel, Afghanistan, Lithuania and other missions, we often chose to operate alongside Germany. Can we see this shift as a further step towards integrating our army through, among other things, CaMo into French structures and doctrines? Do you not think that, in view of the developments in the region in recent months, without much progress, there is a need for a clear long-term strategy for that region before we invest more people and resources in that French mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u58	We have had a few exchanges of views on the coup d'état in Mali, including on your initiative and on Mr Flahaut's initiative. This was held with the External Relations Commission in both the Commission for the Follow-up of Foreign Missions and in the Joint Committees. The context is known to everyone. What is the state of the Belgian army's efforts there? Are there short-term or long-term implications for the EUTM mission and the MINUSMA mission, specific to the training assignments? It also seems interesting to me to know whether there are no training courses given to military coupants. High Representative Borrell points out that the most prominent leaders did not already receive training from European troops. Can the Minister indicate whether and how many units or high-ranking figures of the CNSP received training from the Belgian Defence Department? European training activities directly linked to the functioning of the Malian army will be suspended until a civilian government is established. Operational support will continue to run. In your view, should this be phased out if no progress is made in the establishment of a credible democratic regime? How should we see our commitment in Mali and the wider region?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u59	Colleagues, the instigators of the coup d'état in Mali quickly indicated that they did not question the presence of the EUTM mission and MINUSMA. Our Belgian military deployed within these two missions therefore still have the same role as before the coup, even though the European Union has established an operational pause at EUTM level because of the VOCID-19. This new political situation in Mali currently has no impact on the security situation of our military, except for increased vigilance. It is therefore not intended at this stage to withdraw them from Mali. A withdrawal from MINUSMA would cause some chaos and would primarily benefit armed terrorist groups. If Mali were to fall into this chaos, neighbouring States would be even more at risk in the face of this regional threat. The current situation is volatile and changing rapidly. At this stage, we continue to follow it very closely with our European and United Nations partners, particularly with regard to the safety of our citizens, who do not seem to be particularly at risk at the present time. The former president of Mali, who was under house arrest in his personal residence, was allowed to leave Bamako on 5 September for care abroad. His former Prime Minister, Boubou Cissé, the President of the Timbiné National Assembly and other individuals are still deprived of their liberty in Kati. The National Human Rights Commission and the Human Rights Division of MINUSMA had access to these personalities and confirmed that they had not suffered any physical harm. Of course, the question remains of their deprivation of liberty without legal or judicial grounds. The long-term consequences cannot be estimated at the moment. No unit or high-ranking figure of the CNSP has received training from the Belgian Defence Department. In the womb of the EUTM, it is currently being examined whether and when training activities could resume. On the basis of the EU's position, the position of Belgium in this respect will be examined at defence staff level. The Defence Staff is currently examining options for additional deployment in the Sahel to contribute more actively to the stabilisation of the region and further reduce the impact on Europe's security situation. This analysis was carried out in close cooperation with the Foreign Affairs Office in order to have a common vision that could lead to an integrated security strategy for the whole region. A military contribution in the form of an autonomous combat company participating in Operation Barkhane is one of the possible deployment options currently being investigated by the defence staff. In the analysis, the expertise and experience of the French as well as the integration within well-known structures and the application of well-known military doctrines prevail. In addition to further supporting capacity building and the EUTM initiatives, our bilateral assistance to Niger and supporting the UN peacekeeping operation MINUSMA, this specific commitment could also make a more active contribution to combating the terrorist threat in the region. The dossier on operations in 2021, including the review of the planned military deployment in the Sahel in 2021, will be submitted to the political authorities for approval in the coming month.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u60	Minister, it seems interesting to us to have a thorough exchange of views on our position in the Sahel. You say that strong thinking has already been done with strategic notes and the strategic vision, but perhaps we should settle that here. You can do that for me behind closed doors. If we were to participate in Barkhane, after everything else, I would like to discuss this in greater depth, including the results of the efforts made so far. It seems to me to be an interesting idea that we are entering into this fundamental debate. Mr President, perhaps that can be noted for the next order of business. If there are strategic notes, can we discuss them in public or behind closed doors? An evaluation of our operational commitment in the region for many years and its results should also be considered, as there are a lot of questions to ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u61	Mr Francken, on that last point, I would like to say that next week there will be an arrangement of the work on the agenda. We shall return to it at that time. In the meantime, I will also examine with members of the Defence Committee what documents may be made available.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u62	Minister, I am pleased to hear that you confirm what you said earlier, namely that there are no high-ranking figures or units trained by our troops. It seems to me appropriate that, should there be a change in the commitment of our people on the ground, this can also be discussed with Parliament through the appropriate channels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u63	Mr Minister, my question introduced at the end of August followed not only what I had been able to see through social networks - indeed, you visited the construction site of the new hangar for the A400M - but also information published in the press and concerning the progress of this work. According to my latest information, the construction site is expected to end in the summer of 2021. However, it is my responsibility that two aircraft, one of them from Luxembourg, will already be delivered at the end of this year, well before the end of the planning of the works. However, the current hangar is not able to accommodate new aircraft in their entirety. For example, for their maintenance, the tail of the aircraft will not be able to be sheltered because the current hangar is too small. Although I do not doubt the strength of the defence tools, I would nevertheless like to ask you a few questions. Has there been any difficulty in the construction of the new hangar due to the current health crisis? What about the A400Ms that will be delivered prior to completion? Are they not likely to suffer degradation if they are to remain partially outside during weather conditions? What about the Luxembourg plane? What does the cooperation agreement provide for in this particular case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u64	Jadin, the construction site of the new A400M hangar was suspended during the period from 18 March 2020 to 20 April 2020 due to the coronavirus. However, the impact on the execution of the project is limited to the maximum by the successful tenderer, in compliance with the health measures imposed. This maintenance hangar is intended to accommodate the A400M for technical interventions that require sheltering the appliances. Apart from these interventions, the aircraft are designed to be parked outside, regardless of weather conditions. The cooperation agreement with Luxembourg provides for Belgium to maintain the Luxembourg aircraft in the same way as it does for Belgian aircraft.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u65	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u66	Mr President, Minister, in the special committee this afternoon we are discussing this operation behind closed doors, where this question could have been addressed, but to my surprise I myself read in the press that our army would choose to use GPS-controlled precision weapons in Syria and Iraq, in particular GBU-39/B. I read in the international press that such weapons may be subject to Russian interference, which is called jamming and spoofing; that is something other than catfishing. In any case, those weapons may be manipulated, which concerns me. I would like to know whether this is a real danger and whether it can happen to our people on the ground. Minister, is the information correct that our military will work with these weapons in the Middle East? Is there a danger of these weapons being hacked by foreign forces?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u67	Mr President, Minister, I will not repeat Mr Verduyckt's introduction, because he has done so with great care. I have a number of parallel questions and also a few other ones. Can you confirm the information? Mr Verduyckt has just asked that question. How many of our F-16 fighters will be equipped with that type of weapon? What kind of targets will that weapon be used against? Is this about stationary targets for which the weapon is intended? Are there any technical adaptations to our F-16 fighter planes? If, yes, what is the cost? What, apart from any adjustments, is the cost of using that weapon for our country? Considering that the use of the weapon coincides with a CEP, a fault circle, from 5 to 8 meters, in which area will the weapon be deployed? Is there a risk of collateral damage and what are the odds? What preventive measures are being taken to avoid collateral damage? What are the direct consequences of the collateral damage to our country, if any? Given the military presence and capabilities of non-NATO Member States in the area where the mission is taking place at the end of this month, I also have questions about spoofing and jamming, which the colleague has already mentioned. What are the chances of this happening? How real do you estimate the danger, considering that this small diameter bomb does not have a so-called tri-mode Seeker capacity on top of the classic INS and GPS systems? For comparison I refer to other types of small diameter bomb. With a view to the future, I would also like to know whether the famous F-35 fighter aircraft planned in our country can also be equipped with that weapon system.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u68	Due to the low weight of the GBU-39 our fighter planes are indeed able to carry a higher number of these precision bombs. Our combat equipment will in principle only be equipped with this weapon when there is an operational need for it. There have been no technical adjustments needed to our devices to deploy these weapons. The cost of one piece amounts to about 50,000 euros. The real cost associated with the operational deployment of this type of weapon depends on its effective use intensity which is not currently known. The SDB has a particularly high precision and can be thrown away at a very large distance from the strategic target. It can only be controlled by GPS guidance. As it also contains a low explosive charge, it will therefore preferably be used in scenarios where all these properties can be best used or designated. In order to minimise or avoid collateral damage or collateral damage, strict deployment rules are systematically developed and applied. Our pilots are especially well trained and they have high quality hardware with the F-16-MLU. Furthermore, our country has delivered a red call order to the Combined Air Operations Center that controls the shipments, so that all aspects of target determination are carefully tested before an assignment reaches our pilot. In the context cited, the term hacking does not apply so much because it concerns a disruption of the GPS signal originating from the satellites. Jamming or spoofing, on the other hand, can indeed have a negative effect on the precision of GPS-guided weapons. Our F-16s have advanced technologies to reduce the risk of hacking, spoofing or jamming with unwanted results to an absolute minimum. In different areas, attention is paid to this. In the preparation of shipments, the possible presence and influence of all possible jammers shall be examined and analysed. Operation in a coalition context guarantees us a maximum of information. Our F-16s are kept up-to-date by hard and software updates in order to operate under these conditions. For example, they have the ability to navigate without GPS, monitor the accuracy of the GPS system and receive warnings if the aircraft or weapon detects any form of jamming. The weapons themselves using GPS are also equipped with the latest developments to withstand the influence of jamming or spoofing. Examples include GPS antennas or anti-jamming modules present in GPS-guided weapons. Finally, our pilots also train tactics and procedures to deal with this type of interference appropriately. In case of doubt, for example, the use of weapons that can be adjusted if necessary by laser will be transferred. Also the F-35A, the replacement of the F-16, will be able to deploy this kind of armament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u69	Mr Verduyckt, I understand that the weapon is not resistant to cat fishing. I do not know if that is an answer to your question, but I am happy to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u70	I will not comment further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u71	Thank you, Minister, for your very thorough answer. I have to admit that your answer reassures me a little about the use of that small disaster bomb. As usual, there are very strict rules of engagement and that reassures me in that respect. I am particularly confident in the very professional commitment and the good training of men and women. The professional training of the people of Defense and their professionalism in general inspires me in confidence. This does not, of course, mean that we will not continue to monitor the deployment of these weapons in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u72	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vicaire's 55008492C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u73	Mr. President, Minister, as you know, Defence is facing a major challenge in the renewal of its staff. We've already talked a lot about it. Remember, more than 40% of the military will retire by 2025, which will force the Defence to hire some 12,000 people. Since attrition is also very high in our army, measures to make Defence careers more attractive have already been taken. I hope that more will be taken. Among these, I would like to refer in particular to the removal allowance decided last June. The purpose of this allowance was to compensate for the significant journeys that Defence personnel must make to work. The average daily travel distance is 53 km for a military member, compared to an average of 20 km for a private sector worker. Despite this decision known since June, it appears that it is currently blocking at the FPS level Public Service, which would call its application into question. This retro-pedaling is all the more surprising since the measure had already been budgeted for 2020. In view of the legitimate demands of our military and the need to make Defence more attractive, what is the status, Minister, in the effective implementation of this allocation? According to what calendar? How are your contacts with your colleague in charge of the Public Service in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u74	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Bayet, a negative opinion was recently given by the Minister of Public Service on a draft royal order for the granting of a removal allowance to certain members. The notice indicates that unequal treatment would be created with other categories of federal public service personnel in the same situation. However, the situation of the military cannot be compared with that of other members of the public service. Regardless of the elements already included in the comments to the draft royal decree, further arguments are being drafted with a view to requesting a new opinion as soon as possible. These complementary arguments should provide a better understanding that the social and family impact of long-distance home postings is more burdensome for the military than for other civil servants in comparable circumstances. The budgetary impact of this HR initiative is estimated at €32 million on an annual basis. The removal allowance is part of the HR initiatives proposed at the hearing of the Committee on Defence on 15 January 2020 and later was the draft of the resolution on HR policy in defence adopted by the plenary on 9 July 2020. Other dossiers aim to make the military profession more attractive and maintain staff. They relate to the remuneration or the increase in the purchasing power of the military. They have been negotiated with the trade unions and are awaiting treatment in the process of administrative and budgetary control, including the increase in compensation for intensive service, the increase in wagers, allowances and allowances for reserve soldiers, the introduction of an English knowledge allowance, the introduction of meal cheques, the alignment of meal allowances during a temporary foreign mission with the fees of the Foreign Affairs Office, the adjustment of the reimbursement system of permanent service abroad. In June 2020, discussions also began between the defence staff and the trade union representation for the alignment of military personnel' betting with that of the police. However, no government can take decisions in current cases in this area either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u75	Minister, thank you for your answer. I note that it is very difficult to agree on this allocation, despite the minority government and two ministers from the same party. I regret that because it was included in the 2020 budget. The question had to be asked at that time! Inequality of treatment can be turned in the other direction. I have already said this in a previous question: why does a soldier earn less than a policeman for the same state protection functions? Every effort must be made to improve the working conditions of our soldiers who truly deserve it. I am counting on you, Minister, to continue working on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u76	Mr Francken is not present and has asked his questions. 55008774C, 55008776C and 55008778C to be postponed to another meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u77	Mr President, Minister, in December 2019 the military traffic controllers moved from Gavere to a new location in Steenokkerzeel, where they will now work with their civilian colleagues from skeyes. The merger has had quite a few feet in the earth and regularly provoked protests from one or both sides, because two very different categories of staff are brought together, which besides another profile also have different statutes, options and perspectives. This had to be clarified in cooperation agreements in order to make cooperation a workable success. Let us be clear, Minister, that we fully support the cooperation that has been developed. However, we also have a few questions. Firstly, what progress has been made with the cooperation of our military air traffic control and its civilian counterpart? What agreements have been reached? Secondly, how are we going to close the gap, for example with regard to remuneration? How has the fusion affected the recruitment of new military air traffic controllers? Any eyes on that yet? Do you see a drop? How will you or Defense attempt to make the profession even more attractive to the civilian slope? Thirdly, Minister, has the merger affected the outflow of military traffic controllers? Do you notice an early departure of those highly sought after profiles or even a switch to skeyes? Finally, one criticism that we sometimes hear is that the agreements between Defence and Skeyes on the exact advantages, rewards and so on remain very vague for the time being. Will the DOD make an additional effort to clarify its air traffic controllers? Minister, I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u78	Mr President, the merger is in the colocation phase for the entire Air Traffic Control Centre in Steenokkerzeel since 2 December 2019. However, full integration has not yet been achieved. For a certain service of that military unit, in particular from NOTAM Office, we think we can move to integration in the near future as soon as the technical agreement is finalized; In the meantime, two framework agreements were signed, namely a civil-military framework agreement and a framework agreement AIS or Aeronautical Information System. The implementation agreement was re-established in the civil-military framework agreement. However, the military and citizens each retain their own status. With the implementation agreement, once the technical systems are more compatible, we want to exchange traffic controllers. It is not an objective in itself, to completely close the gap between soldiers and citizens in terms of remuneration. A study is currently under way on the military allowance for air traffic controllers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u79	It will be considered whether it can be adapted, taking into account the general HR policy within Defence, on the one hand, and the specific situation of military air traffic controllers, on the other. We do not know a particular reason for the lower recruitment rates for 2020, but no doubt COOVID-19 will have played a major role in this, in addition to the early conclusion of the registrations, linked to a limited medical capacity for the specific medical tests for air traffic controllers. We seek to become more attractive by enabling an exchange in the long term and facilitating a controlled transition from Defence to Skeyes. We also continue to focus on the specific characteristics and benefits of the military profession. In the past, there were soldiers who made the transition to the former Belgocontrol or Eurocontrol. There is no significant reversal to be determined. Cooperation with skeyes is a synergy of the coalition that will move towards long-term integration. In the case of evolutions and in certain Milestones, Defence will continue to communicate transparently for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u80	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I repeat that we fully support the move and further integration. There are, however, a number of concerns that we would like to share when it comes to the attractiveness of the profession. You have said that they will remain separate statutes, but that the amendment of the statute will be considered in a wider story by Mr. I am inclined to follow that, but I would like to reiterate the specific situation and its attractiveness. If there is someone sitting next to you with a better status and there is a vacancy for that position, then we must ensure that we can still keep sufficient capacity on board within the Defense Department. You say that the current influx is not high and that this is largely related to COOVID-19. I am inclined to follow you in this respect, but we must continue to monitor this over the next few months and years and ensure that the status of military traffic controllers is sufficiently attractive to get in and remain active in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u81	Debates of the European Parliament 55008802C by Mrs Chanson will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u82	Minister, on 11 September the government decided to purchase 322 light tactical vehicles from Oshkosh as future CLV and to replace the Lynx. The JLTV will be recruited with a multi-annual technical assistance agreement worth €135 million. Can you explain the contract you signed? What is contained in the technical assistance agreement and for what period is it concluded? The first vehicles are delivered in 2023, given the poor condition of the Lynx with heavy armor. What timetable does the Department of Defense use for the full replacement? Like the Lynx, many versions are possible. The JLTV family consists of three base vehicle platforms and four configurations based on specific mission packages. What type of vehicles and packages does the Defense want to buy? It was said to be cost-effective and equip the new devices with FN DeFNder Light weapon stations that will be recovered from the old Lynx. Will this plan be held? If not, why not and what is the extra price? A higher level of protection is sought, similar to that of the Dingo, to provide crew with better protection against projectiles, mines and IEDs. What is the level of protection that the JLTV can offer?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u83	Mr President, the open agreement lasts for at least 15 years. This includes all technical support. Given the purely military concept of these vehicles, the manufacturer is the only one who can guarantee maintenance and evolution. The manufacturer has undertaken to carry out all maintenances and repairs in Belgium. The company is bound to carry out all deliveries within 42 months of notification. The Oshkosh meets specific Belgian requirements, including the integration of the FN DeFNder Light and its motorized capacity. The 322 vehicles to be supplied are identical and are closest to the JLTV General Purpose. The vehicles will be equipped with additional armoring and active protection kits and off-road mobility. The Oshkosh-CLV will not recover old weapon systems. The installations of 135 new FN DeFNders Light are provided within the contract. The purchase of the new FN DeFNders Light was foreseen within the strategic vision and is achieved through the contract 18LP301. The degree of protection offered by the Oshkosh-CLV is classified and therefore cannot be mentioned. The Oshkosh offer meets the minimum requirements of the specifications in the field of safety and high protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u84	Mr. Secretary, in July, Defence signed an agreement with Sabena Aerospace and Blue Aerospace to take over eight of the nine aircraft from the C-130 fleet. The deal includes the aircraft itself, the engines, accessories, spare parts and support equipment on the ground. With this purchase Sabena Technics could guarantee its C-130 maintenance line for other operators in Belgium in the future. The American Blue Aerospace could subsequently sell the updated aircraft on the second-hand market. The ninth, last, C-130 aircraft would be owned by the War Heritage Institute, which was already mentioned in the oral questions, and destined for the collection of the Royal Army Museum in Brussels. Mr Minister, can you tell our committee what the selling price is for the eight aircraft? The sales file of the C-130 fleet was launched by DG MR in May 2019. Are there any other candidates outside Sabena for the purchase of our aircraft? If so, why was Sabena preferred? The transfer of the aircraft to the Blueberry Group is an investment in its own economy, as it also guarantees employment at Sabena Aerospace. The government is a shareholder in the company through the Federal Participation and Investment Company. Are there any possible legal implications? Is a similar agreement for the acquisition of aircraft also possible for the phasing out of the Belgian F-16 fleet, for which the group also has a top position worldwide for the maintenance of the type in its Belgian establishment? Given the limited free space in the Royal Army Museum building and the size of the aircraft, the last C-130 will be exhibited in Brussels itself. What costs may be associated with the transport and installation of the device?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u85	The eight C-130 aircraft were sold to Sabena Aerospace Engineering NV for the price of 19.400,000 euros. Several candidates have indeed submitted an offer to buy this fleet, three of which have submitted an offer. Sabena Aerospace Engineering NV was chosen because they had submitted the highest commercial offer. The agreements were concluded with Sabena Aerospace Engineering NV, which together with FPIM is a shareholder of the Blueberry group. As the procedure for the sale of appliances has been properly carried out, no legal implications are expected. No decision has yet been taken on the final destination of the Belgian F-16 fleet. The C-130 device intended for the WHI will not be exhibited in Brussels itself. It is provided at Melsbroek, the current location of the aircraft, or at Bevekom, depending on the last flight of the aircraft. So, there are no additional direct costs associated with the placement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u86	Thank you, Minister. I was also wondering if this file should not have been on the Army Procurement Committee. I see the general shaking no, so I'm sure there's a good argument for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u87	In a written communication to the Dutch House of Representatives, the Dutch Defence Minister Barbara Visser states that it sells to us a discarded F-16 from the End Life of Type programme (ELOT) to be used as a stationary training agent by the Belgian Weapons Training Centre. By purchasing that old device, the Ministry of Defence will no longer have to take out one of its increasingly scarce active devices for training assignments. So that seems to me to be a good thing. Mr Minister, can you explain the purchase of the aircraft and the price paid to the Netherlands for it? The use of decommissioned devices to increase the employability of our devices is a good move. However, can you indicate the need to purchase a Dutch device and not use your own F-16? The Netherlands is beyond us in its replacement program of the F-16 by the F-35. As a result, more Dutch aircraft will be taken out of service in the coming years. Does that offer any other opportunity for the Belgian Defence Department to increase the employability of its own fleet while awaiting full recruitment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u88	Mr President, the aircraft in question needs to be discarded. Nevertheless, the mutually agreed configuration is sufficient to be used for the intended ground training. Taking into account the added value the aircraft offers for the employability of the F-16 fleet, a price of 50,000 euros was agreed. Apart from the operational fleet, Defence does not have an F-16 that meets the requirements of the intended ground training. In the future, Belgian Defence will probably still be able to rely on the dismantling of the Dutch F-16 fleet, but rather on the acquisition of the parts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u89	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I believe that we should continue to work towards good cooperation in the configuration, which has already been mentioned. Indeed, the price is still bridgeable, if I hear it that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u90	Mr Minister, next year, a common Belgian-Dutch squadron of five ships under the name Fairwinds 2021 would undertake a three-month trip to Asian waters. The agenda included Egypt, Israel, Jordan, India, Sri Lanka, Indonesia, Singapore and Malaysia. In addition to a diplomatic function, the mission would also provide the opportunity to practice navy with others. However, the Dutch Admiralty Council has now unilaterally decided to cancel the trip because of COOVID-19. One of the five ships that would participate was our frigate Leopold I. This would release the ship for other operations. Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions. They were not allowed to be discussed elsewhere in a confidential session. First, can the Minister confirm that the operation Fairwinds 2021 was cancelled and when were you informed about this by the Dutch government? Secondly, the Dutch Navy will provide an alternative mission and will already participate in a British programme in the South China Sea with a frigate during the same period to enforce freedom of navigation in international waters. What alternatives are provided by our admiralty to replace the mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u91	Mr President, in an initial planning phase, a Belgian-Dutch squadron called Fairwinds 21 would develop into Asian waters in spring 2021, where diplomatic flag display was one of the objectives. The participation of the frigate Leopold I in this development was considered by the Belgian Navy Staff. Due to the global COVID pandemic and the expected limitations in port visits, this deployment has been cancelled by the Admiralty Council, in which the Belgian Navy is represented. A possible alternative assignment for the Leopold I frigate in spring 2021 will be part of the Operation-2021 dossier, which is currently being further prepared at the level of the Defence Staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic259x.u92	Minister, I am glad that you are correcting this correctly, namely that it is not a one-sided Dutch decision, but a joint decision. I think it is right that we, as equal partners, should be able to make such decisions together. I look forward to your announcement, or perhaps the announcement by your successor, about the destination of the frigate Leopold I in 2021.
