ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u1	Minister, the biannual report of the Service for Combating Poverty, Precariousness and Social Exclusion denounces the following reality: environmental and climate policies amplify social inequalities. Indeed, the policy measures in this area encourage sustainable consumption patterns, but they remain inaccessible – because they are impeccable – to the most disadvantaged. The most disadvantaged and marginalized are therefore particularly vulnerable to climate change and solutions to adapt or mitigate its consequences. Indeed, the limited possibility for people in poverty to opt for what is generally considered a sustainable way of life makes it difficult or impossible for them to assume their responsibilities individually for the environment. Minister, are you aware of this problem? What do you intend to do to remedy it as quickly as possible? How can we actively combat the three types of environmental inequalities: inequality of exposure to environmental and climate change, inequality of ecological impact and inequality of environmental policy? Why did you wait so long before taking measures to save energy or to isolate homes better? These measures have been of paramount importance for years, but seem to have taken on political importance only from their affiliation with the climate struggle. Do you confirm this idea?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u2	I would remind colleagues that it is not mandatory to read the questions. Thanks to the intervention of your President and others in the Conference of Presidents, it is always possible to refer to the question as introduced. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that you have recently been able to refer to the written record of your question, without having to read your question. This is an incredible intervention by the Conference of Presidents after many years of discussion. We're getting better. That's how democracy works: it grinds slowly, but it comes anyway. So you're not obliged to read your question, but it's okay. If you do read your question, I won't look at you crookedly, you won't worry.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u3	Mijnheer de voorzitter, Madame Thémont, I will express my answer completely. I listened to your question with great interest. The links between climate policies and social inequalities are complex. You pointed it out. It is essential to consider the potential impacts of climate policies on social justice and to anticipate compensatory measures, while at the same time aligning climate policies to existing and future specific poverty reduction policies. It is true that, if misconceived, some environmental and climate policies are likely to reinforce existing social inequalities or even create new forms of inequality. On the one hand, at a sectoral level, these policies act as levers for energy and mobility policies, linking them with traditional social issues such as energy insecurity or inequalities in access to mobility. On the other hand, the policy mix for mitigating environmental and climate change will also include specific instruments and non-sectoral policies such as taxation, which can generate impact clusters in terms of social justice. In order to ensure a fair transition, it is essential to ensure that all policies implemented do not threaten fundamental rights, further increase social inequalities and, on the contrary, contribute to reducing them. In this context, it is necessary to assess the social impact of environmental policies through assessments and, where appropriate, provide for compensation measures for vulnerable households. For example, we have identified and analysed these impacts of carbon pricing in the context of the national debate on this topic, which I launched in early 2017. On that occasion, I proposed a first set of compensatory measures for the possible implementation of all this work. I would remind those who would not remember that, while it was not foreseen in the government agreement, I wanted to launch for a year a great deal of reflection on carbon taxation and on all the means it involves, including the just social transition. It is in this context that we have developed this kind of reflection. This work is continuing in order to put in place as soon as possible in Belgium a carbon pricing that is socially fair, but of course, you know that the sine qua non is that a government agreement takes over this very broad topic and can result from policies. In the absence of elements in the government's current business agreement, we cannot carry out the consequences or conclusions of this work. But they exist, and everyone can take it. Energy-renovation policies in the housing stock, such as the promotion of insulation works or the installation of less energy-efficient equipment or renewable energy systems in homes, can help to combat energy insecurity, in particular through subsidies and tax advantages. It is mainly the regions which are active in these subjects and which have been working there for a long time. I must concede with you that there has been an acceleration that has been taking place for some time and even better and more fortunately since the integration into all policies (ideal to which we must strive) in the fight against global warming. Through the burden sharing 2013-2020, we have studied at the federal level – as there are fiscal support measures from the federal government to the regions that are declining greenhouse gases – the lever we could use in this direction. It did not start as hard or as fast in the time it had been desirable, but today it is launched and I believe it will only grow with time. As regards the incentive split or the non-alignment of interests between, for example, tenants and landlords, the investment costs are borne by the owner while the benefits of improving comfort and reducing the energy bill accrue to the tenant; a series of measures exist and need to be strengthened. The Regions, because it is within their competence, are developing specific policies in this area. At the federal level, the recently adopted National Energy-Climate Plan 2021-2030 (continued by burden sharing) envisages stimulating renovation and improving the energy efficiency of the housing stock through a revision of the taxation of buildings involving the introduction of a reduced VAT rate for demolition and reconstruction subject to approval by the European Commission. Indeed, everything related to VAT must be the subject of a European consensus. It is also planned to draw up a plan for environmental energy taxation as well as a deepening and application of the third-party financing formulas, therefore everything relating to PPPs. Social aspects should be taken into account in the development and implementation of these various measures. It is clear, however, that although several avenues have been identified and are being analysed or implemented, an additional effort is needed to identify and analyse these avenues, particularly in the context of the transition to climate neutrality by 2050. Some concrete avenues for redistributive measures, such as the lump sum payment to be implemented when introducing possible carbon pricing, have been identified in the context of the national debate mentioned above. Beyond this concrete element, it is necessary to develop a wide-ranging project on the aspects of the transition. This is why, as foreseen in the National Energy-Climate Plan, a national dialogue on the just transition to a climate-neutral society will be implemented with all political actors, authorities and stakeholders. This dialogue will be supported by an analysis of the positive and negative effects of the transition to a climate-neutral society. In particular, it will focus on identifying policy avenues to combat insecurity and to include all citizens in the climate trajectory.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that the speaking time is 2 minutes and 30 seconds for the question and 2 minutes and 30 seconds for the answer. Colleagues, I would like to repeat it once more. There are two and a half minutes for the question and two and a half minutes for the answer. That goes for everyone. I've been a coulant again. The screens need to turn red. Green's the color it's allowed, red's not allowed. I did not decide that, Mr Verduyckt, that is true. We learn that in kindergarten. If it turns red, we have to stop. I ask the Secretary to ensure that the two large screens, which can also be seen by the President and the Minister, turn red when speaking time is exceeded. And then it'll be over. We must learn to express ourselves in a concise way. We talk too much and say nothing. That's our problem. Mrs Thémont has the floor for a one-minute reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u5	Mr. President, you've already taken me a minute! I'll be very brief, I assure you. Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive response to objective policies. In 2013, a proportion of households experienced a decline in energy insecurity. At one point in 2017, however, there is a flow due to the price of energy. The precariousness indicator also identifies households by their expenditure. The most disadvantaged families are single-parent families and women who live alone with their children. With regard to compensatory measures, I note your study on the work of carbon taxation and I mean that you support a socially fair carbon pricing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u6	Mr. Chair, Minister, the purpose of CRM is to encourage investors to develop new capabilities to deal with, among other things, peaks. By 2025, we can think of new gas-fired power plants. However, these plants produce CO2 and technology would enable us to generate electricity by operating our plants with synthetic gas. This synthetic gas is currently in the phase of technological development: there is not yet an industrial plant capable of producing this synthetic gas in an industrial way. It would be an opportunity for Belgium to be at the forefront in this research and industry. I hope that Belgium will become a technological leader in the capture of CO2 and the manufacture of synthetic gas from the electricity produced by our wind turbines, particularly in the North Sea. Minister, my question is this. Is this method seriously studied by your administration and your firm? How can the federal government guide the research needed to industrialization of this technology? What is the government doing to encourage this future fuel that will allow us to use our gas-fired power plants without damaging the climate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u7	Mr President, honourable Member, until today Sabatier's reaction – which you know: a reduction of CO2 by H2 hydrogen to produce CH4 methane – is not a sustainable alternative to the supply of gas from fossil resources, because this reaction requires the use of H2 dihydrogen, which is known as "hydrogen" or "gaseous hydrogen" and it is almost not found in nature and therefore has to be produced. Currently, hydrogen gas is produced industrially, mainly from natural gas, by high temperature vaporizing. This reaction is the opposite of Sabatier's reaction. There is therefore no point in producing hydrogen from a hydrocarbon – the natural gas methane in this case, which is the simplest of hydrocarbons – and then using this hydrogen to produce, in an ideal situation, the same amount of hydrocarbon. In reality this will be less, because the reaction does not have a 100% return. Hydrogen production can also be achieved by electrolysis of water, but it requires a source of electricity. This solution is currently being studied to use excess renewable electricity generated at certain times. The first projects are being launched today, but their scale is still very limited compared to the demand for gaseous hydrogen already existing at industry level. In addition, production costs are well above the cost of spraying. Production of green hydrogen in solar cells is also possible, but its development is still at an earlier stage. In the long term, we could imagine producing large quantities of hydrogen from renewable energies, but in this case there would be little interest – apart from easier storage and transport – in converting this hydrogen into methane compared to the direct use of the hydrogen in a fuel cell or gas turbine. In addition, large quantities of carbon dioxide would also be required to be recovered in the most concentrated form possible, e.g. at the outlet of boilers and other turbines that produce this gas by combustion. Direct use of CO2 in a terrestrial atmosphere is more difficult to envisage because its current concentration – 400 ppm, or 0.04% by volume –, if it is unfortunately sufficient to produce a significant greenhouse effect, is not sufficient to allow Sabatier's reaction. CO2 should first be separated from the rest of the atmospheric components and subsequently reduced by hydrogen following Sabatier's reaction. Such a CO2 separation-concentration operation is possible but very energy-intensive. So you see that, through all possible channels, there is still a long way to go before it is economically interesting and economically and technically feasible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u8	Thank you Minister, I do not have the impression that you have answered the question of how to help the research necessary to do its stages, first to do the electrolysis of water – it seems easier – industrially, but also to do the opposite of Sabatier's reaction. This new gas production could use surplus electricity, maintain electricity prices when production is much more important than consumption. I think it is our role to help research to industrialize these processes and my question was: What are you doing to help this research?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u9	Mr Vicar, as you may know, and we must not forget, it is the Energy Transition Fund. This fund is funded to the tune of 20 million a year for ten years. In the new call for tenders, we have 47 projects and sometimes researchers or industrialists as well as engineers submit projects on these issues. This is what we do to help research. But overall, if you look at things technically and economically, that is the state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u10	Mr President, Madam Minister, on 14 January the European Commission presented to the European Parliament its Green Deal financing plan, which aims to bring the European Union to carbon neutrality in 2050. Of the EUR 1 000 billion in investments planned by the Commission over a decade, EUR 100 billion would be spent on a fair transition mechanism that must accompany the adaptation of the European regions most economically dependent on fossil fuels. This mechanism consists of three strands, including a fair transition fund of €7.5 billion to be provided in the next European budget (2021-2027). The content of this envelope will be distributed among Member States according to their needs and the scale of their challenges in achieving this transformation. Our country is expected to receive a share of €68 million over seven years, or €6 per capita. If we are far from the level of dependence on fossil fuels in certain Romanian, German or Polish regions – it is known that in Poland coal accounts for almost 70% of the energy consumed, so it alone should receive two billion euros – Belgium will have to respond to the challenges of transforming economic activities and industries that generate a high greenhouse gas intensity (cement, fertilizer, electricity, etc.).). Minister, what is Belgium's position on the sharing and implementation of this Fair Transition Fund? Which territories in our country are the most affected by the climate transition? How will this envelope be redistributed as efficiently as possible to amortize the costs of the transition (investments to be planned, support to be provided, deadlines, etc.).( )? Has your government already consulted the Regions on this matter? If so, could you elaborate on the results of these exchanges?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u11	Madam Minister, the context has already been outlined by Mr Senesael. There has been a lot of turmoil around the theme over the past few days. The European Commission will analyse the country reports prepared under the European Semester to identify the regions and challenges they face. Thereafter, territorial plans for a fair transition will be drawn up at both Member State and regional level, describing the transition processes and the specific needs. It is the Member States, including Belgium, which are to designate the eligible regions by 31 December. The Flemish Government is against the criteria of the European Commission, against the methodology and against the draft conclusions of the European Commission. Mrs Demir calls it 'a mean deal'. According to the draft recommendations of the European Commission, Belgian funds from the Fund should apparently be used as a priority in the province of Hainaut. The Flemish Government is therefore quite critical and I would like to say a few words. There's something I find strange, Madam Secretary. Mrs Demir said last week in the Flemish Parliament that at the end of last week a joint letter would be sent to the European Commission, which would, among other things, express the criticism of the Flemish Government about the criteria, the methodology and the conclusions. There will be a nice meeting of the Consultative Committee next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u12	Mr President, the introduction has already been made, and I turn directly to my questions. Firstly, coal has not been used in Belgium for several years, while other countries such as Germany still use polluting fossil fuels. The allocation seems to be at the expense of countries such as Belgium, which have already given up coal. What do you think of the funds allocated to Belgium compared to other countries? A second question is on the basis of which specific criteria the allocation of resources has taken place. Why, for example, would the Netherlands receive around 13 euros per inhabitant, while Belgium would receive only 6 euros per inhabitant? Thirdly, to what extent is the distribution of resources between Member States fixed? Can you propose any changes to the methodology? If so, what else is there? Fourthly, do you already have an idea of the resources allocated and their distribution among the regions? Have those conversations started yet? If so, what is the state of play?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u13	Mr President, much has already been said by my fellow Members, but I would like to take another approach. This is a draft regulation by the European Commission, on which neither the European Parliament nor the European Council has already given its opinion. However, communication in the press and also in the questions here in the committee seems to be based on the assumption that this is an accomplished fact, which is not the case at all. Moreover, the transition fund was set up within the framework of cohesion policy, which means that it is also a regional policy. Firstly, how is the federal government involved in the Just Transition Fund? Which policy areas are involved? Is there a link to the budget, for example through the multiannual financial framework with the climate? So is there a link to the National Energy and Climate Plan? Is there a link to other domains? There are also major differences of opinion between Member States on the Just Transition Fund. One of the important debates still to be held is the debate on the resources from which the Fund is to be financed, in particular through additional contributions to the European budget or through a redistribution of resources within the multiannual financial framework. However, there is also an increase in the share of revenues from the ETS, which would no longer go to the Member States. Secondly, given the transversality, is the current organisation with the DGE consultation sufficient to grasp the transversality of the Just Transition Fund? Thirdly, I read in the press that Flanders apparently believes that of the amount of EUR 68 million for Belgium in a draft regulation, EUR 39 million would go to Flanders. Is there already an agreement in Belgium on the funds included in the allocation table in a draft regulation of the European Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u14	Mr President, I have had four questions. So I may also need four times the speaking time to answer them. I'll try to answer it in order. Mr Senesael, in my answer to a parliamentary question No 55002047C asked in December 2019, I had indicated that Belgium was waiting for the European Commission's proposal before giving concrete expression to its position and expressing itself on this subject. The Commission proposal was published on 14 January 2020. We are therefore in a phase of analysis and reflection. The Belgian position will of course be the result of a consultation between the federal government and the federated entities. A first meeting was held at the end of January. Within the framework of the Coordination Committee for International Environmental Policy (CCPIE), an exchange of views was held on the involvement of climate and environment administrations and ministers in discussions and preparations for positions on the Equitable Transition Mechanism. I think it is essential that these actors be closely involved in the discussions on this subject and I ensure that their positions and concerns are adequately addressed. In my reply to the parliamentary question of December, I also mentioned that, as Belgium, we had stressed at European level our demand that this fund be open to all Member States and not only to the regions which are heavily dependent on coal. I am therefore pleased that the Commission shares this vision and allocates part of the budget to each Member State. The question you ask in relation to the most affected territories in our country is extremely relevant. First of all, it is too early to comment on the internal distribution of funding that we will receive from this European Fair Transition Fund. In any event, the Commission specifies that a Member State, in order to be able to use its share of the fund, will have to define its eligible territories by means of specific territorial transition plans in dialogue with the Commission. It is within the framework of these plans, which should be guided by the national Energy-Climate plans – including ours, which was returned to the Commission on 26 December 2019 – and the European Semester cycle, that the identification of the territories and the distribution of funding in Belgium will take place. In addition, this European money should be considered, in my view, as part of a fair transition and from a broader perspective. First, national and regional investment funds could also play a role in supporting transition regions. Secondly, the transition creates considerable opportunities and Belgium must take advantage of them. As part of the articulation and implementation of our long-term strategy and our National Energy-Climate Plan, the various authorities must facilitate, encourage and support all investments related to the development of new industries and activities in Belgium and, more specifically, in those regions where the transition to new production modes and 21st century industries will have a profound impact on the industrial fabric and existing economic activity. We need to align our education and labour market policies with the transition to a climate-neutral society. We must provide workers with the necessary skills in the transition so that they can also play their part in the industries and activities of the future. A strong workforce reskilling and skilling policy that is consistent and stable in a long-term vision is essential. I am absolutely convinced that by uniting our forces in a coherent and complementary manner with the different levels of power, we will achieve this. The debate, although difficult, as well as the consultation between the Federal and the Regions, and with the Communities, since we must also integrate the aspects of education and the labour market, are indispensable and will bear fruit. For the time being, as you can see, we have not yet started long and intense discussions. These are necessary. The meetings we will have in the future will allow us to deepen the first contacts in January. In the context of our long-term strategy, my administration has written a document entitled Vision and strategic workstreams for a decarbonized Belgium by 2050. I spoke about this document in committee. One of the priority projects identified in this document is the right transition. I had the opportunity to talk to Mrs. Thémont about it earlier. The identification and development of this priority project is linked to the National Energy-Climate Plan, which provides for the organization of the national dialogue on the just transition, and which involves all actors. This dialogue will be supported by an analysis of the positive and negative effects of the transition to a climate-neutral society, and will be oriented towards identifying policy paths. I will continue to stress the need to start an intensive dialogue and collaboration with all the actors involved as soon as possible, in order to guarantee this just transition in Belgium. According to the European Commission's legislative proposal, some EUR 68 million would indeed be allocated to Belgium. In addition, I would like to point out that the Just Transition Fund (JTF) is only one pillar of the Just Transition Mechanism (JTM). With the other two pillars, the Commission believes that up to EUR 989 million of investment for the transition can be mobilised in Belgium. The European Commission proposes that, in order to be able to rely on the JTM and therefore the fund, territorial just transition plans should be drawn up. These plans should identify the regions most affected by the transition. For each of these areas, the social, economic and environmental challenges and the needs for economic diversification, retraining and environmental rehabilitation should be described. The plans will have to provide an overview of the transition process until 2030 and should also be in line with the objectives of the National Energy and Climate Plan. The distribution of financial resources will also have to reflect the capacity of Member States to finance the necessary investments to cope with the transition to climate neutrality. The allocation will therefore take into account the challenges facing regions that emit high greenhouse gases through corresponding industrial CO2 emissions, social challenges in the light of potential job losses in industry, coal and lignite extraction and peat and shale oil production. The methodology will also take into account the level of economic development of Member States and the associated investment capacity. The discussions on the JTM should also be seen in the wider context of the negotiations on the EU's long-term budget and the multiannual financial framework for the period 2021-2027. The financial instruments of the JTM are included in the Commission's proposal. The Commission regards the proposed EUR 7.5 billion for the JTF as an amount in addition to the proposed long-term budget. As regards the distribution of the potential EUR 68 million from the JTF, no intra-Belgian agreements have yet been reached. As I indicated in an earlier reply, we are currently analysing the proposal. The Belgian position and the answer to the question of whether and how revenue will be distributed should be the result of consultations between the federal state and the federated entities. It is essential that ministers and administrations responsible for climate and environment are closely involved in these discussions. The JTM was the final piece of the European agreement on climate neutrality objectives for 2050. In the context of financing the transition at Belgian level, I would also like to stress that European money must be seen in a broader context, since national and regional investment funds under Pillars 2 and 3 of the mechanism can also play a role and cannot be separated from the opportunities that the transition can bring and which Belgium should benefit from. Therefore, the different governments in our country must develop a vision and pursue policies aimed at facilitating, encouraging and supporting investment and development in new industries and activities, especially in those areas where the transition to new production models and industries of the 21st century has a strong impact on the existing economic fabric. Finally, we must also coordinate our education, training and labour market policies and pursue a decisive policy of reskilling and upskilling. The Fund for a fair transition is, as you pointed out, strongly linked to the multiannual financial framework, as regards the origin of the financial resources, and to the national energy and climate plans as a framework for identifying the regions where funding is needed. The actual allocation of funds is through the territorial Just Transition Plans. This means that the distribution of resources from the JTF effectively affects different powers of the federal government. For example, the plan aims to retrain workers active in polluting sectors in the region concerned; to help small and medium-sized enterprises as well as start-ups to create new clean economic activities; and to support investments in green energy conversion. The National Energy and Climate Plan also gives the federal government the task of organising a national dialogue on the just transition to a climate-neutral society with all policy actors, both government and stakeholders. This dialogue should be based on an analysis of the positive and negative effects of the transition to a climate-neutral society and should focus, inter alia, on identifying policy priorities. Even though European cohesion policy in our country has so far been implemented exclusively by the Regions, it is extremely important to properly spend the JTF's financial resources in Belgium. A transparent, transversal and complementary approach is needed across all policy levels. It is therefore necessary to consult the Regions, the Communities and all stakeholders as soon as possible. As for all European dossiers, the Belgian positions for the JTF should be discussed in the DGE framework. The way in which this will be done in practice is not quite clear at the moment. On 14 February 2020, the DGE Foreign Affairs Office will organise a start meeting on the Belgian approach of the EU Green Deal, of which the JTF is a key element. Transversality, mutual consultation and transparency between the different levels of policy involved and consultation structures are, for me, a priority given the need for coherence in the handling of the Green Deal. In the European Commission's view, this should become the EU's new growth strategy. I am therefore pleased that, not only at DGE level and in the environmental lobbies, the Co-ordination Committee on the International Environment Policy (CCIM), where the federal government and the Regions are also preparing European dossiers, but also within ENOVER and within the scope of the Inter-Ministerial Economic Commission, is being consulted on the Green Deal. The CCIM has already started to map out in detail the discussions on the Green Deal's dossiers with the identification of working groups, networks, coordinators and so on. The FPS Finance has been asked to include a coordinating task for the overarching theme of the Just Transition Fund, of which the JTF is a pillar, and to bring together a group of experts including environmental and climate experts to coordinate the technical input. As soon as this becomes more concrete, I will inform you about it. No concrete agreement has yet been reached on the intra-Belgian allocations of resources from the JTF. The Commission proposal is currently being thoroughly analysed. I strongly believe that the distribution of income between the federal state and the federated entities is of great importance, as I indicated in an earlier reply. The transition to a climate-neutral Europe and the European Green Deal require a whole-of-government approach at all levels. Perhaps, therefore, it might be a suggestion for this half-round to give my fellow ministers the opportunity to explain the government's vision of the Green Deal for their respective powers. As the transition is by definition cross-border, I am also looking forward to continuing the interparliamentary dialogue between the Federal Parliament and the Land Parliaments during this term of office.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answers. The Socialist Party will be particularly vigilant to avoid social risks to local communities most dependent on the fossil fuel value chain. I think that this reflection should also guide you in your relations with the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I hope you will understand the Flemish position. The choice of regions within a Member State is linked in the European Commission's proposal to the European Commission's recommendations under the European Semester. At the end of January 2020, the Flemish government already received the draft country report for Belgium. Choices have been made in that. Madam Minister, your reaction on the other side of the language border, Flanders, is therefore not surprising. Has a letter already left from the Belgian level? Apparently that is not the case, because you indicate that the government is still working on the analysis of the European Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u17	Madam Secretary, thank you for the long explanation. We will await the discussion with the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u18	Madam Secretary, thank you for your long and interesting answer. I am pleased that your answer shows a transversal and voluntaristic approach. This approach also meets the objectives of the Green Deal, in particular: to look beyond the different policy areas to see how we can exploit the opportunities of climate neutrality. I am also pleased to hear that it is being considered how the Belgian consultation can be organised in the most efficient way, not only within the various powers of the federal state, but also in consultation with the regions. Mr President, the suggestion of the Minister to hear the other ministers on the Green Deal might be a good suggestion for the committee. Instead of questioning everyone individually, it might perhaps be possible to organise a debate on the subject in committee, for which we gather the various ministers responsible. Perhaps we can discuss this in the Bureau of the Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u19	Mr President, Minister, I refer to the National Energy and Climate Plan and to your previous reply, where you talk about the national dialogue on the just transition to a climate-neutral society. I would like this to be made more concrete. In itself, dialogue and participation are interesting tools, but I would like to hear from you how you see this national dialogue. People talk about stakeholders and other governments. What's that gonna look like? What timing do you intend to organise this dialogue? What does this dialogue look like? I would also like to refer to the example of the Netherlands, which we were presented with in this committee and which charmed many colleagues. Is that something that can serve as an example? Is that how it could happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u20	Mr President, Mr Verduyckt, the European Union's recent Green Deal initiatives once again demonstrate the political relevance of the challenges of a just transition. In this context, it seems more appropriate than ever to launch the national dialogue on the just transition to a climate-neutral society, as foreseen in the National Energy and Climate Plan. This dialogue responds to a request from civil society, in particular from consultative bodies such as the FRSD and the CRB. The organisation of such a dialogue will also enable Belgium to implement its commitments under the Just Transition Commitment. Indeed, this commitment, adopted at the United Nations Climate Action Summit in September 2019, stipulates that signatory countries undertake to support a fair ecological transition by developing mechanisms for inclusive social dialogue. These mechanisms aim at promoting a solid social consensus and avoiding major social and economic disruption during these transformative changes. The national dialogue on the equitable transition to a climate-neutral society is one of the main pillars of a broader national dialogue on all dimensions of the transition to climate neutrality. This dialogue should be structured around several major strategic sectoral and transversal yards identified in a document distributed within the National Climate Commission. It will be necessary to develop these yards in a participatory way, in cooperation with all stakeholders and all levels of power. The fair transition is at the heart of the transversal yards to be developed. The national dialogue on the transition to a climate-neutral society should be launched as soon as possible. The participatory process for this debate will be inspired by the Dutch climate tables, to which you refer, as well as by the national debate on carbon pricing, which I initiated in 2017, and other examples from Belgium and abroad. He will, of course, also have to be in line with the work of the Regions in the context of the operationalisation of the long-term national strategy which Belgium will present to the European Commission and which should be approved by the Consultative Committee on 19 February. In terms of content, the yard will address several issues such as, on the one hand, synergies and conflicts between policies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and policies to combat energy poverty in the area of housing and access to mobility policies and, on the other hand, employment and training in the context of transition, the participation of vulnerable groups in joint, economically sustainable initiatives and in the design and evaluation of climate policies, mechanisms for using carbon pricing revenues to reduce social inequalities. Moreover, the administration has already done work on a number of these issues, in particular in the context of the macroeconomic analysis of low carbon scenarios and the national debate on carbon pricing. As far as the involvement of European funds allocated in this process is concerned, I think it is too early to speak on this issue. The proposal on the allocation of the EU's resources under the fair transition was published by the Commission on 14 January. We are therefore still at the stage of analysis and reflection.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u21	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I am pleased to hear you say that dialogue will become one of the main pillars of the process, as well as the way in which the sectors are consulted, as has been done in the Netherlands. I believe that this is indeed a good method. What I want to say today is that not only what is said in that dialogue is important, but also how it is organised. It's got to be a recruiting project. The objectives are there. If we want to achieve well-founded measures, this dialogue, if it is well organised, can be a good help.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u22	Mr President, Madam Minister, the magazine Médor reports that Fluxys has invested 19% in a fairly large project, the Trans Adriatic Pipeline (TAP), the last part of a large energy network to transport gas from Azerbaijan to the countries of the European Union. I read that this project is particularly controversial, has raised a great deal of concern in civil society, is currently the subject of judicial proceedings in Italy. I see that the Public Prosecutor's Office has established that the environmental authorization obtained by this consortium in 2014 was illegal and that water contamination would indeed have taken place during the construction of the pipeline. Minister, what do you think of this gas maxi-project and its environmental consequences for the countries crossed by the pipeline? Have any contacts with your Turkish, Greek, Albanian and Italian counterparts been made with regard to this gas pipeline? Can Belgium press to block the project pending the pronouncement of the Italian courts, since it is clear that the project is particularly contentious? Finally, if it turns out that the project is indeed illegal, what will be the financial and legal consequences for Fluxys?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u23	Mr President, honourable Member, the TAP project to which you refer is part of the Fluxys Group's international activities and is therefore not the political responsibility of the Belgian federal government. In this sense, I have not had contacts with my counterparts in the other countries concerned, but I have had contacts on this issue. However, since the federal state is a shareholder for about 2% of the Fluxys group, through the equity and investment company, I clarify some points for you. First of all, I would like to inform you that this is not an illegal project under any circumstances. It's very important. The project contributes to the diversification of European energy supply through the development of the Southern Gas Corridor, a pipeline project from the Caspian Sea to Italy in order to de-enclave Azerbaijan as an additional natural gas source for Europe. The interest of the project has been recognised by the European Commission, which has described it as a project of common interest. Following this, loans were also granted to the project by the European Investment Bank and the EBRD. In addition, within the framework of the project extending from Greece through Albania to Italy, intergovernmental agreements have been concluded between the countries concerned. In your question, you also refer to the proceedings concerning a local environmental authorisation in southern Italy. The opposition of the residents and the NIMBY sentiments are obviously omnipresent in the development of large-scale energy projects of this scale and are part of the democratic process. They are not characteristic of this project. According to the information requested from Fluxys and TAP, the Regional Environment Agency has examined the pollution to which you refer. It concluded that this pollution could not be associated with the work for laying the pipeline. Pollution was already present before work began. In general, banks that have lent the money for the TAP have a reputation for paying close attention to the social and environmental impact of the funded projects. You know that! It should also be noted that Environmental and Social Impact Assessments have been established by TAP for Greece, Albania and Italy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u24	Madam Minister, thank you. Nevertheless, the federal government's responsibility is a matter of responsibility. You have a stake in Fluxys but the European Investment Bank has invested heavily – I even think it was its first investment project last year. The federal government can find a role to play in protecting the project from disastrous environmental consequences in countries across the border.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u25	Mr President, Minister, we all have different electronic devices, such as a smartphone and a laptop. When the battery is empty, we have to look for a charger and each device has a different charger. This sometimes causes problems for the user, but it also creates a very large pile of waste. Electronic waste is one of the largest waste streams, with around 51,000 tonnes added per year. This is why the European Parliament has launched the debate to aim for a single universal charger, for all devices. The European Parliament urges the European Commission to impose industry to work towards a single universal plug. That would obviously be very comfortable for the user, but it would also be very good to reduce the waste stream. Madam Secretary, how do you feel about this idea? Have you heard of the European Parliament's plans? Have you been in contact with your European colleagues on this matter? Can you take initiatives yourself? Can we take some measures at Belgian level to limit this electronic waste stream? What are your suggestions about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u26	Mr President, Mrs Dierick, I fully agree with you. Chargers are usually supplied as standard in the packaging and are not sold separately. They usually last a long time and households usually have a surplus. This means that unnecessary costs are incurred and additional waste is generated. Although, as you note, many chargers are already interchangeable, this is not always the case. Wireless chargers are usually universal. Many chargers use as standard USB plugs or have a removable cable. This allows reuse. Some mobile devices are already sold without a charger, but only with a cable. There was a European Memorandum of Understanding on universal chargers, which expired in 2012, and which had a positive impact, but there is still room for further improvements. The revision of the European Ecodesign Regulation on external power supply will make new proposals on interoperability by 14 November 2022. The Commission will therefore launch a study by the second half of 2021 at the latest. This should take due account of the diversity in voltages and capabilities of mobile devices and the safety and speed of loading. My administration follows this, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u27	Madam Secretary, you say that the USB or removable cable is a step forward, but we should be able to take further steps. You refer to the studies that will take place in the second half of 2021 and to something from 2022. That is a long time to go, but we should see if there is anything more we can do in Belgium. I did not really get a reply to the question about the concrete measures you are proposing, but this may come up later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u28	Minister, aid for the development of Belgian offshore wind energy has increased from €350 million to €465 million in one year. According to CREG, just like solar power generation, the increase in electricity generation by Belgian offshore wind farms has an impact on the electricity bill: the more electricity generation at sea increases, the more the electricity bill increases. Minister, what is the mechanism that explains that an increase in subsidies for the development of renewable energy leads to an increase in the electricity bill? What is the total amount of subsidies granted to companies for offshore wind turbines? Can you compare this to the subsidies granted to offshore wind turbines abroad? For offshore wind turbines, how much does a household cost each kWh of electricity produced?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u29	Madam Minister, many colleagues will have questions about the future, but I would like to talk to you about the present and the past of the offshore. As Mr Warmoes says, the CREG estimated that the cost of support at sea has risen from EUR 350 to EUR 465 million this year, an increase of 33%. This has an impact on the current but also on the future electricity bill, since the draft law introducing a competitive tendering procedure retains the concept of the granting of certificates. The future support mechanism is thus also a green flow certificate system, combined with a guaranteed fixed and later variable minimum purchase price per megawatt hour, all through the network manager. In recent years, for a number of parks, the minimum price for the purchase of certificates has been increased by an amount to cover and finance the total cost of the submarine cable between the connected parks and the Modular Offshore Grid (MOG). Can you give an overview of the total grant aid given to the operational Belgian wind farms at sea since the Royal Decree of 2002, including support for connection in the period before and after the recruitment of the MOG? What was the impact on the bill of households with average electricity consumption? What are the estimates for the following years?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u30	Mr Ravyts, as compensation for the cost of the transmission system operator's obligation to purchase green certificates granted for the production of offshore electricity, an offshore surcharge, or a tariff surcharge, is charged to the final consumer, whether it is the citizen or the company. This is due in accordance with Article 7 § 1 of the Electricity Law. That's for the mechanism itself. I would like to begin by reminding you that, for the negotiation of support for the last three offshore parks, whose installation is being finalized in the North Sea, for the period up to the end of 2020, we have negotiated a very significant decrease in support, from 124 euros/MWh to 79 euros per MWh, which corresponds to a reduction of the consumer's bill of 4 billion euros over 20 years. In accordance with the information I have sought from CREG to answer your question, green certificates do not only concern offshore, but this purchase cost about 2.2 billion euros for the period 2009 to 2019. And for the cable subside, over the period 2017 to 2019, a sum of 100 million euros was spent. Comparison with offshore parks in other countries cannot be established now. Indeed, we had a typically Belgian system, linked to the granting of concessions with a guaranteed price for the megawatt/hour (MWh), which was the subject of a renegotiation in this particular case and under the current legislature. For the new offshore parks, we will launch public procurement in the period 2020-2030. Moreover, the framework law providing for the preparation of these public contracts has been adopted. In addition, a task force is at work to draw up implementing orders to launch them. At that time, we will be able to make a comparison, because neighbouring countries operate on the basis of these public procurements. I have in my possession a table that takes back the costs for a household, with average consumption per year, from 2009 until 2020. I'll send you a copy so you can check it out at your ease. Président: Tinne Van der Straeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u31	I asked this question to get the data and some figures. So I thank you for the painting you'll be sending. It is of course important for us that the ecological transition takes place, but that it is also social, that its cost to households is as low as possible, and that there is no question of giving too much subsidies that will simply feed the benefits of private operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u32	Madam Minister, the government has made efforts to drastically reduce the large subsidies from the past. We can discuss how far that goes. I'm definitely looking forward to the table, because I'm interested in it. We must deal with this in a non-popular, calm manner, but we do not have to hide anything. We must dare to say how much it has cost the citizens in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u33	Madam President, Minister, according to the CREG, climate change will be at the origin of less and less energy-intensive winters. Indeed, according to an article in De Standaard, the costly capacity compensation mechanism (CRM) applies to a situation in which the risk of electricity shortage is largely overestimated. This overestimation comes from a study by Elia based on particularly cold winters of the 1980s. The chance that such winters will breed in the future is quite low, according to an analysis by Wim Thiery, a climate expert at the VUB, who works on demand for the CREG. No gas-fired power plant should therefore be built, according to the latter. According to the June 2019 Elia study on security of supply, the security of supply problem for Belgium will decrease sharply after 2025, following the increased presence of renewable energy in Europe. This will increase from 10.5 hours of discharge in 2025 to 6.9 hours in 2028. There is, therefore, a question as to the usefulness of financing gas-fired power plants for a few hours of discharge per year. Madam Minister, in view of climate change and the view of CREG that the study by Elia overestimates electricity needs, whereas this study only speaks of a few hours of discharge per year, on the basis of which element(s) do you find it useful to engage Belgium, for years, in a mechanism such as the CRM which will force the latter to pay billions? Could you clarify what it would cost Belgium if it decided not to use CRM? If, for example, a gas-fired power plant was subsidized by CRM – you know it's technologically neutral – how much would it cost per household per year for each kWh produced?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u34	Madam President, Mr Warmoes, first of all, I would like to clarify an inaccuracy. In his figure 4-18 for the ILO scenario, Elia speaks of LOLE and not of hours of relief. You who have lived the hearings along, wide and across, you know that LOLE means the legal norms that must be respected in order to restore the need for capacity. These rules are applied throughout Europe. The capacity volumes identified as necessary by Elia to ensure security of supply comply with the two legal criteria of security of supply set out in Article 7a(2), (3) of the Law on the Organisation of the Electricity Market. Neither Elia nor I therefore decide on the importance of a number of LOLEs for Belgium. We simply refer to this reliability standard, which may change with regard to the provisions of Articles 23 and 25 of Regulation 2019/943 on the internal electricity market. In this regard, I invite you to follow the related work carried out by the Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (ACER). It is therefore on the sole basis of the failure to comply with the legal criterion of security of supply as early as 2025 and the absence of a signal of investment and closure of production units that I have decided to make available to all future governments a mechanism to pay for capacity. For the cost of a system without CRM, I invite you to read the Paper 3-14 of the Federal Bureau of Planning, according to which a single hour of shortage would constitute an economic damage of the order of 120 million euros for Belgium. It is reasonable to believe that overtime and consecutive shortages would cause material damage to production tools, their environment and staff, causing very high and immeasurable economic damage to our country. I do not, of course, want us to find ourselves in this situation. Moreover, for five years, I have struggled daily to ensure that we receive all the necessary electricity on a systematic basis. Finally, like you, I would like to point out that the capacity compensation mechanism is technically neutral. In addition, a first cost simulation exercise, without knowledge of design parameters, was conducted in 2018 by PwC and reported a net present value of 5.2 billion over 15 years – a cost of 345 million per year. We know that other opinions have been issued. As I have already indicated, we cannot assess until the last hundred – if and only if we ever implement this capacity compensation mechanism – what our needs and the price of gas and electricity will be. In short, all this is maintained in terms of the assumptions that should be considered with the necessary caution. The next government will decide on possible degression measures to be taken for industrialists and will then be able to form a political choice of opportunity – which only a full-fledged government is empowered to take – to balance the consumer's bill differently. On the one hand, we need to know whether we need this mechanism and whether we are going to implement it. Personally, I think so, because we need to have efficient and new investments in our territory, particularly in pilotable thermal capacity. On the other hand, it is necessary to determine what the cost of gas and electricity will be at that time if we speak only of gas-fired power plants. Since this mechanism is technologically neutral, it is also aimed at renewables that are not or more subsidized, storage and demand management.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u35	Madam Minister, thank you for your clarification. First of all, let's talk about the LOLE, since you're talking about it. It's about six hours, with indications that it's overestimated. When you exceed three hours, the government appears to be forcing you to call on CRM. I understand that the decision to implement it is not necessarily already taken. What is certain is that every euro we invest in will always be invested in the carbon economy and will not be invested in renewables. It is likely to become a gas-fired power plant. You'll tell me it's not said in advance. It's a cost to the consumer. You talked about major damage to the economy. I asked you how much it would cost if we went through CRM, this investment of at least 350 million euros a year. You didn't quote a number. Nevertheless, it is necessary to be able to make a cost-benefit ratio in relation to such an investment. Here, minister, are some critical remarks about your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u36	Debates of the European Parliament 55002861 by Mr Cogolati expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u37	Madam Minister, on 2 December 2019 you received a letter from the European Commission on the absence of a final decision on the geological final disposal of high-level radioactive waste. This letter stated that if Belgium did not take adequate measures by 27 January 2020, the European Commission could refer the case to the European Court of Justice. Madam Secretary, you know the file. The plans for responsible and safe management should have been submitted to the European Commission in the summer of 2015 in accordance with Euratom Directive 2011/70 of 19 July 2011. In February 2018, the government received a new proposal for the long-term management of high-radioactive waste based on geological disposal, following a collaboration between the NRAS, the FANC and your administration. In November 2019, you and the Minister of Economy asked the NRAS to make a strategic assessment of this proposal of national policies for the impact on the environment. You also asked for a public consultation on the first stage of geological disposal to be carried out. Together with Mr Cogolati, I questioned you about this at the beginning of December 2019. U hebt toen gezegd: "I remain convinced that we can continue to explain to them what is the principle of the stages of advancement in our country." I would like to know when this public consultation will take place. What is the state of play regarding the impact on the environment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u38	As you have pointed out, we are in the process of explaining to the Commission the Belgian mechanism and ONDRAF is currently preparing for public consultation. It takes a lot of time. The time for this specific question is very long and if this logic persists, the lids of the landfill would not be closed until 2120! But it's not because we have a lot of time to hang out! I don't think the ONDRAF is hanging out, but I think she's taking her time. I have already had the opportunity, with Kris Peeters, to remind him several times. At the time, we asked ONDRAF to prepare for public consultation because we wanted it to be consulted at all stages to take as much ownership of this extremely sensitive issue as possible. The 60-day legal period during which the consultation will take place is scheduled for April to June 2020. The start date will be communicated as soon as possible via the channels provided for in Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Act of 13 February 2006 and through the ONDRAF website. During this consultation, the report on environmental impacts will be presented for opinion and consultation at the same time as the national policy proposal, in accordance with the procedure described in the Act of 13 February 2006, which no longer has any secret for you. Belgium replied on 27 January last to the infringement procedure on the implementation of Directive 2011/70/Euratom. As I have already said, our reasoned opinion focuses mainly on two points: the absence of a clear procedure for defining Belgian policy on the long-term safe management of spent fuels – in which we explain the Belgian situation in Europe – and a complete estimate of the total cost of the programme – in particular the basis and assumptions used to formulate this estimate – with a timetable. In this context, we are working with ONDRAF, which is the technical body on which this whole issue is based. We replied to the Commission on these issues, stating that the procedure for adopting national policies had been initiated by ONDRAF and that the total cost arising from the inventory of nuclear liabilities established by ONDRAF is the best estimate available to the Belgian authorities to estimate the cost of this national programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u39	Madam Secretary, you know me a little bit by now. I am the last to want to exploit in a populist way the issue of final disposal, as it is proposed, of high-level radioactive waste. However, there are several bodies impatient, for which I refer to the hearing we had in the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety with Synatom. The situation is that more and more highly radioactive waste must be stored on the sites. Calibrating the amount of commissions is not easy for Synatom. Of course, we will continue to follow up on this dossier. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u40	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Cogolati converted 55002906C into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u41	Madam Minister, the CREG has set social rates for the period from 1 February 2020 to 31 July 2020. The social tariff for electricity increases by 8%, while it was frozen in February and July 2019 pending a new calculation methodology to make the social tariff more resilient to price increases. The intention was not to leave the decision to another government. What is the status of the consultation with the CREG? What is the status of the new calculation methodology? Why did the government decide not to freeze the social tariff or, in other words, not to extend the freeze pending a new method of calculation? Since this is a shared competence, I have addressed a similar question to Minister Muylle.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u42	Dear colleague, I do not want to prevent you from asking your question. Let me explain. I know there are two questions left after yours. I'm co-competent with Mrs. Muylle. In fact, my intervention is very minimal and purely regulatory. Verwilghen, then, had the dual status of Minister of Energy and Economy. He said – we don't know why – that it was the Minister of Economy who would issue the ministerial decree made in this framework every year, while the content of these decrees would be, from A to Z, arbitrated and designed by the Minister of Economy. So I have to send you back to Mrs Muylle. I do know, however, that we will have a debate on this issue, in which I am of the opinion that we should talk to you in full and wide. Would we rather consider this formula?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u43	I am looking at the fellow questioners, Mr Ravyts and Mrs Thémont.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u44	Madam President, I would like to confine myself to a few very specific technical questions. That is why I wish to keep to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u45	Go ahead, Mr. Ravyts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u46	Madam Minister, my question concerns the maximum social prices for electricity and natural gas. With my first question, I immediately follow Mrs van der Straeten's questions. Can you explain more about the coverage if social rates can be frozen up to twice in a row? I did not understand Green's press release in that regard. Madam Minister, could you also explain the retroactive freeze until before the February 2019 price increase and the CREG's announced opinion to prevent a future substantial increase? At the end of January, the Council of Ministers decided, on a proposal from your colleague, Mr Muylle, which had already been announced in February 2019. In order to reduce the significant increases in social rates, you have decided with the government that the calculation will now take place quarterly instead of six-monthly. Moreover, the increase with a double ceiling is limited, namely a ceiling on a quarterly basis and a ceiling on an annual basis. I know that this ministerial decision has yet to be submitted to the Consultative Committee and the Council of State for its opinion. Perhaps you could clarify the technical aspects of the opinion?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u47	Minister, the freezing of the electricity social tariff in effect for the past year ended at the end of January. The federal regulator of the electricity and gas markets (CREG) announced an 8% tariff increase over the period from February 1 to July 31, 2020. For example, electricity prices will rise again for the most disadvantaged families, who also benefit from financial assistance from the CPAS or from an income guarantee for the elderly (GRAPA). In December 2019, 451,000 users benefited from this social rate, i.e. one in ten Belgian households. Electricity is on the verge of a significant increase with an increase of almost 8% and the 19 cents per kilowatt hour will be crossed, a situation which may make the situation of citizens even more difficult. An 8% increase in the electricity tariff represents a considerable expense for many households. This implies that these families will have to make additional sacrifices in order to complete their month-ends. Consider a reduction in VAT or a new social tariff freeze in order to safeguard the purchasing power of households?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has already indicated what her options are for answering these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u49	I don't have an answer in front of me, but I have my answer. I do not, of course, want to encroach on Mrs Muylle's competence, who is fully competent on these issues, although we are working together in a government. I'm not gonna pretend either. He's not my type. As far as the social tariff is concerned, you know that it must more or less always, even if it is a reduced tariff, keep up with the evolution of energy prices. These prices, depending on the markets, increase or decrease. For the moment, they are declining sharply, both on gas and on electricity. When we found, according to the old evaluation formula that appeared in the regulations, that there was a very strong increase in one time – when I say it was at the time Kris Peeters – we decided to block this increase in order to allow disadvantaged families to continue to benefit from a reduced rate in order to cope with this shock more easily, since in the meantime, other things are increasing in a household. It was our will, and we were supported by the government, But we can't keep these blockages indefinitely. At some point, you have to take a different attitude. This attitude was to consider that, instead of making an assessment and adjustment once or twice a year, it was necessary to do so every quarter. Of course, the question is not resolved in substance. The increase in markets will gradually and not once in a fiscal year. Indeed, the evaluation will be split in four moments over time. The substance of the case has not been settled through this. There will be – I have to use the simple future, since it is really a full-fledged government decision, actions to be taken in a more global economic context, by the minister or ministers who will have this theme in their hands. We will have to find ways – in my opinion there is not a single answer to this question – that will allow the public to have access to energy like everyone else, but taking into account the obvious and intrinsic difficulties in their lives. Indeed, when it comes to income issues, family issues, social issues, and dropping out of one or the other of these areas, these families need our help. But this is a policy decision of a full-fledged government. For now, we have done as much as we thought we should do. All the policies mentioned, notably by Mrs Thémont, are policies that are resolutely to be taken over by a full-fledged government when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u50	Madam Minister, what you have just said between the questioners seems to me to be the best suggestion, namely to look at this together with Minister Muylle. I thought you were both authorized. It had escaped me that Mrs Muylle was fully competent. We also need a government. We can talk here about the adjustment of an KB on a different method of calculating the social rate, and here too it is to the government's credit that it is not waiting for another government, but actually this is not competence in current cases. We will continue this debate with Mrs Muylle.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u51	Madam Secretary, on the substance, you are right. It was Minister Muylle who submitted a ministerial decision, which does not really regulate the substance of the matter. The overruns shall be taken to the next quarter. Within the government this is called the carry forward principle. That is a moving work that we will continue to follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for taking the trouble to answer this question. I will also ask Ms. Muyle about this, since my question was more of her jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u53	Madam Minister, on 15 January 2020 I questioned you here in the Committee on the preparation of the Belgian long-term strategy under Article 15 of the Climate Governance Regulation. You replied as follows. "A federal vision document was sent to the various stakeholders. It provides an overview of options to reduce emissions and identifies workstreams to shape the transition policy. They are, as it were, a work programme for the short and medium term to implement a long-term strategy in concrete terms. The document is based, among other things, on the overall results of the new Belgian 2050 calculator model. The adopted strategies of the three Regions will form an integral part of the Belgian long-term strategy. The Council of Ministers will agree on how the vision document is best integrated into the Belgian strategy." Subsequently, on 31 January 2020, the Council of Ministers adopted the paper on the strategy for the elements falling within the powers of the federal government. The Council of Ministers decided as follows. An ad hoc interfederal working group has merged the three long-term strategies of the Regions and some yards from the federal study into an integrated long-term strategy of Belgium. My questions are as follows. Firstly, Belgium has a long-term objective, which was included in the Royal Decree of 18 July 2013, in particular by 2050 reduced Belgian emissions by at least 80% to 95% compared to 1990. Was the objective included in the Belgian long-term vision and at least in the federal share? Secondly, which yards of the federal study were included in the document? Thirdly, which yards were not included? Why weren't they admitted? Fourthly, the challenge lies in rolling out the long-term strategy. What work programme for the short and medium term was adopted to implement the long-term strategy in concrete terms? Fifthly, will a public consultation on the document still be organised? Finally, what is the state of play of the Belgian 2050 calculator model?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u54	Madam Minister, the Council of Ministers of 31 January 2020 did indeed mandate you to include Belgium's long-term strategy for reducing greenhouse gas emissions on the agenda of next week's Consultation Committee. The Council of Ministers also approved the strategy document for the elements falling within the competence of the federal government. In order to prepare the Belgian long-term strategy, a joint working group of the National Climate Commission and the ENOVER Energy Consultation was established. An ad hoc interfederal working group has merged the three long-term strategies of the Regions and some of the yards from the federal document Vision and strategic workflows for a carbonised Belgium by 2050... Input to the Belgian long-term strategy into an integrated long-term strategy of Belgium. Mrs Van der Straeten is not very enthusiastic about this, because today De Standaard headlines that the Belgian climate strategy for 2050 is going to fail. I understood from the article that no Belgian objective was included in the integrated long-term strategy, because the Regions did not agree that reference was made to 2013 and the KB mentioned by Mrs Van der Straeten. You will be able to tell me whether this is true or not, Madam Secretary. Can you also explain the Belgian calculator model of 2050? Which yards were included and which yards were not included in the integrated Belgian long-term strategy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u55	Minister, during the interparliamentary dialogue, Mr Peter Wittoeck presented some very illuminating debriefing elements of COP 25. In particular, he reminded parliamentarians that only ten Member States of the European Union had reached the 55 % target, with Belgium not among them. However, two Belgian regions, Wallonia and Brussels, have included this objective in their regional policy statements and the Federal Parliament has adopted a resolution calling on the government "to pursue an ambitious climate policy with a view to achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement as well as those of the European Union's road map to decarbonise Europe, while raising ambitions to a higher threshold, namely a mandatory reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 55%". Madam Minister, why has Belgium not joined this group of ten ambitious countries? What are the blockages?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by reminding you that the federal government has always defended the view that the federal government and the regions should cooperate on the transition to climate neutrality. The objective set out in the federal long-term vision for sustainable development, to which you refer, is not explicitly included in the draft Belgian long-term strategy, which will be submitted to the Consultation Committee, as not all Regions could agree. The objective was adopted by royal decree and therefore remains in force. With this long-term strategy, developed in bottom-up and to be approved by the Consultation Committee, all entities are now involved and responsible for the objectives set. However, the Belgian long-term strategy sets a target for those sectors which are not part of the European emissions trading system, the non-ETS sectors. This corresponds to a reduction of 85 to 87 % in 2050 compared to 2005, which translates into a level of emissions between 10 and 12 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent by 2050. The figures are the result of the summation of the objectives included in the strategies developed by the three regions. As the scope of the different regional strategies varies, all economic sectors versus some non-ETS sectors, it was not possible to aggregate regional ambition levels to a Belgian target. The draft long-term strategy refers explicitly to the vision document, which was drawn up by my administration as input for the Belgian long-term strategy and in which all yards and levers are identified. The yards related to energy production are explicitly listed in the draft strategy, which is a long-term vision on electricity supply, transport infrastructure for green hydrogen and e-fuels, long-term frameworks for integrating intermittent sources by all actors and supporting an active role for citizens. Other yards mentioned in the regional contribution, such as the circular economy, a socially equitable transition, the fight against energy poverty, the role of carbon capture and storage or use, the role of alternative fuels or green financing, electrification in industry, the strategy for public transport and active means of movement and new transport models, technological developments in freight transport and an adaptive policy, are also mentioned in the draft strategy. Other proposed yards, such as the long-term vision on mobility, the governance framework and the vision for sustainable agriculture, are not included in the draft strategy because there was no agreement on it. The vision document that my administration has prepared as input for the Belgian long-term strategy will be published after translation into French and Dutch. The proposals can always evolve to meet needs. The Regulation allows Member States to update those strategies every five years, where necessary. In the short and medium term, the recently adopted NEKP identified a number of yards with respect to a fair transition, for example as regards mobility. They must be deployed quickly, in a coordinated manner and with respect for the powers of all governments in our country and developed further. The transition to a climate-neutral future will involve a profound transformation of our society and economy. It goes without saying that such a system transition can only succeed if we actively involve all stakeholders, citizens and businesses in the development and deployment of the long-term strategy. In recent years, several stakeholders have been consulted and public consultations have been organised on climate and energy policy, both at Belgian level, for example in the context of the Interfederal Energy Pact and the Belgian National Energy and Climate Plan, as well as at regional level, in the framework of regional policy strategies and plans. In recent years, several studies and technical explorations on long-term scenarios for greenhouse gas reduction have also been carried out both at Belgian and regional level. In the long-term strategy, each entity commits itself to design pathways to further discuss the strategies with the public, the various stakeholders and experts involved over the coming months and years and, where appropriate, to provide a broad basis for them and to develop them. Finally, the Belgian 2050 calculator model was already used to prepare the federal government's input into the formulation of the Belgian long-term strategy. The administration is currently refining certain elements of the model and will publish the results of the model calculations as soon as possible. The model makes it possible to build different emission reduction pathways through a whole range of levers to steer both technological adjustments and behavioural changes, in each emission generating sector. In this way, the instrument makes it possible to highlight and quantify the main challenges of the decarbonisation of our society. The calculator will be updated on a regular basis, including on the basis of economic and technological developments, also to support the breakdown of the identified transition paths to the regional level. Mrs Schlitz, on the occasion of the United Nations Climate Action Summit, held in New York on 23 September 2019, ten Member States, together with some 60 other countries, have indeed joined the strengthened National Climate Plans initiative. They confirmed that they had initiated internal processes to increase the ambition of their climate policies in 2020. These are France, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Germany and the United Kingdom. During the interparliamentary dialogue, Mr Wittoeck, from the Climate Change Department of the SPF Santé, presented you with a slide containing a map of Europe highlighting countries that had not, at that time, indicated their wish to see the European Union's 2030 target increased to 55%. The number of countries that have joined this initiative has increased since COP 25 to 114. This information shall be supplemented by the following: In October 2019, eight Member States sent an explicit call to the European Commission's elected Vice-President, Frans Timmermans, to increase the European Union's ambition by at least 40% in 2030 compared to 90, to at least 55%, in preparation for COP 25 in December. These are France, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Denmark and Latvia. According to informal information received by my administration, Finland and Slovenia also support the same position, although, for various reasons, these countries have not signed the appeal. I regret that Belgium has indeed not been able to join these two groups of European countries. As you know, Belgian positions on climate policy are coordinated between the federal and regional governments. At that time, there was no consensus to subscribe to these two initiatives. In the meantime, the European Commission is proposing, within the framework of the European Green Pact, an increase in European ambition from 50% to 55%, as you could see at the hearing to which you refer. The impact assessment for this proposal is announced for this summer. This analysis and its timetable should enable the European Union to submit an appropriate national contribution well in advance of COP 26. It will therefore be necessary to start drawing up a Belgian position. It is clear that the resolution adopted by this House will be useful to me in my discussion with the Regions on this subject. I would like to point out that the European Commission will shortly be publishing a proposal for European climate legislation, incorporating the 2050 climate neutrality target, adopted by the European Council in December. We are talking about a date near the beginning of March. Let us then see if the 2030 target can also be included in the discussions on European climate legislation. I conclude by reminding you of the importance of this debate in sending a strong signal to the international community with a view to COP 26 in Glasgow. The European Union continues to play a leadership and bridge builder role by involving other parties to the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u57	Madam Minister, first of all, it is a good thing that the most important yards needed for the transition are being developed in coordination with the other levels of government and stakeholders. Secondly, it is my view that the draft strategy does not comply with the European regulation, because no objective has been set. I regret that intra-Belgian it is impossible to achieve an integrated vision. I also regret that even the federal share, the federal objective that was in the RB, could not be included, even though it remains in full force. Thirdly, the federal government does have crucial powers and levers, mobility, taxation, investment. To end with a positive note, it is now important to implement, operationalize and see how the strategy can be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u58	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I agree with you that regional ambition levels cannot be aggregated into a Belgian target. I may be a little less unhappy about that than Mrs Van der Straeten. I also note that I refer to the preparations for COP 26, which will require a great deal of consultation with your regional colleague this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u59	Minister, thank you for all the information. I regret, like you, that we have not been able to join this ambitious group of countries. We, since the federal government, will make every effort to meet the challenges in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u60	Before we switch to the next question, I inform you, for information, that the Minister must leave at quarter to two. I think we have plenty of time, but I leave it to you to refer to the question as tabled, or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u61	Madam President, Minister, as we know, MYRRHA is the name of the reactor currently under development that Mol's SCK CEN hopes to see operational by 2034. It has the peculiarity of not being cooled by water but by a mixture of lead and bismuth kept in liquid state, thus maintaining the very high speed of neutrons generated by the nuclear fission reaction. This new technology, which underpins the MYRRHA project, is intended to reduce the toxicity and lifetime of nuclear waste. On 5 November last saw the start of phase 1 of the project, which consists of the construction of the particle accelerator that will accompany and power the reactor. On that day, a first contract of EUR 7.6 million was concluded for the design of buildings and certain technical utilities. On 28 January, the Deputy Director of CEN, Mr. Hamid Aït Abderrahim, spoke in the pages of Le Soir. He recalled that the government's current funding mainly covers the first phase, far from the 1.6 billion required, according to his estimates, for the full realization of MYRRHA. He said he was optimistic about the identification of foreign partners able to fill the budget and thought, in the long run, of the creation of a genuine European industrial sector in this field. On 3 December, you recalled in committee, Madam Minister, that in September 2018 the government had instructed the MYRRHA asbl to develop, in consultation with your administration, an international overseas strategy whose objective would be to reach cooperation agreements with third countries and to find external financial support for phases 2 and 3. Minister, have you read what Mr Abderrahim said? Do you share his optimism about the establishment of a European transmutation industry? Would it not be necessary to bring this matter to European level, since the transmutation of long-lived nuclear waste is clearly of Community interest? In concrete terms, what are the current results of prospecting carried out in the context of an international overseas operation? Will new contracts be signed in 2020 to continue the implementation of Phase 1?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u62	Madam Minister, my question is in line with Mr Achour's interesting question about the results of the Ivzw MYRRHA, which was established by the decision of the Federal Council of Ministers of 7 September 2018. I am referring in particular to the development of an international outreach strategy in order to conclude cooperation agreements with foreign partners with a view to external financial support for phases 2 and 3. That would be done in cooperation with Foreign Trade and the FPS Foreign Affairs. I found it interesting to review the policy letter of the former Secretary of State for Foreign Trade, who is now responsible for Foreign Trade, Minister De Crem. In 2018 he already took a number of initiatives, for example a discussion with the Department of Energy of the US. The Deputy Director-General of the SCK, also director of the MYRRHA project, showed optimism in the French-speaking press. It is still far from EUR 1.6 billion, but it advocated industrial European cooperation in this area. Madam Minister, please explain more about the outreach strategy on the MYRRHA project. What was the state of play at the end of 2019? What results were achieved last year and what are the prospects?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I thank you for the interest and the follow-up you have given to this very important MYRRHA project. Mr Ben Achour, you're talking about a reactor, but the MYRRHA project is much more than just a reactor. I think you know that. This is a new large research infrastructure that will be built in Belgium in a phased manner, which is why the federal government has supported this project in a very strong and determined way. This infrastructure provides an answer to a series of major areas of issues in which Belgium wishes to remain at the forefront, such as medical radioisotopes, particle accelerator technology, new materials and the transmutation of radioactive waste, which you say is right, to reduce the radiotoxicity of spent fuels and which can lead to a reduction in both their radiotoxicity duration and their volume. This is therefore an essential element, a large infrastructure that enables researchers to identify new solutions to societal problems for which citizens are asking for new approaches. In this case, it is in particular an environmental and sustainable development concern, given the transgenerational aspect of this project. It is welcome that scientific research can provide solutions to societal problems, such as the problem of radioactive waste. These societal concerns are indeed shared internationally and in other European countries. You propose to bring this matter to the European level or to other European countries. It is indeed an interesting idea that I would also like to study. The development of a first prototype and then industrial sector of separation and transmutation requires the development of several fields of which MYRRHA constitutes research on one of them. This development can only be conceived at the level of several countries. Europe's growing interest in the environment, sustainable development and, for example, the circular economy, which is also reflected in important initiatives such as the Green Deal and sustainable finance, also pushes us in this area to ensure and develop sustainable and socially acceptable solutions to the environmental problem posed by radioactive waste. It is also for these reasons that the international non-profit association (AISBL) has been considered. This is the legal form we wish to develop to develop the partnership and financing of this project. In order to attract and finally convince partners, the government decided, on September 7, 2018, to establish this international non-profit association as a host structure with the aim of promoting the project and developing the participation of interested international partners. Once operational, this AISBL will own the facilities as well as be responsible for promoting the MYRRHA project internationally and will bring together the participations of the other partner states. The development of the phase 1 of MYRRHA began at the end of 2019 with the signing of a first contract, in my presence, by SCK CEN, Tractebel Engineering and Empresarios Agrupados Internacional. This contract is divided into three main phases: the design of auxiliary systems and support equipment in phase 1, the preparation and monitoring of purchases with the companies responsible for its construction, and assistance during the construction phase. This contract is only the first in a long series. Although this overseas strategy has not yet led to the participation of foreign states in the ISBL which should be formed, the contacts we have had with France and Germany – the latter being engaged, like Belgium, in a nuclear phase-out strategy – have been encouraging. Moreover, these countries were present at the signing of the contract to which I have just referred. No agreement is signed for the construction participation phase, but for contributions to the design of the project as well as to the research and development programme. Since the start of the project in 1998, many research collaborations have been signed with different institutes in several European and non-European countries. On the other hand, 2020 will be the year of the official constitution of the MYRRHA I call with all my wishes – and I am working on it – and to which my administration and the offices concerned are working very hard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u64	Madam Secretary, thank you for your detailed reply. I understand that this is still in the scaffolding with regard to the future of that international non-profit organisation. Thank you for your explanation of the contribution agreements. We shall certainly come back to that in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u65	Minister, contacts with France and Germany mainly concern the design of the project. Is that it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u66	Yes, that's it. Close contacts are taking place with Germany and France. If there is participation and participation agreements, they will be contribution agreements for the design of the project and for the research and development programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u67	Isn't that meant to be amplified?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u68	Yes, of course. In this respect, we will iterate with the partners that I have identified, starting with the signatories of the first phase with the contract that I have told you about, and then those who were present and who will continue to work and get closer – we are doing everything we can to do so – like France and Germany who have experience in nuclear research. This does not preclude the participation of interested non-European international partners (such as Japan). All this will have to be combined over time to take a contractualized form beyond declarations of good intent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u69	In any case, I consider – and we agree on this – that it is a project that deserves intensive work, trying to maximize its impact in other European and non-European countries. It seems to me that this project can be an important part of the 2050 decarbon economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u70	Madam President, Minister, last week there was some fuss about offshore ghost wind turbines. This concerns the Belgian targets for renewable energy production by the end of 2020. I would like to ask you a number of questions about the further integration of offshore, international or international. On 20 June 2019, in Esbjerg, the North Sea Ministers signed a joint declaration with the ambitious objective of achieving a capacity of 450 gigawatts of wind energy at sea by 2050. On 4 December the same ministers met again in Brussels on a programme for 2020. The Esbjerg Declaration calls on Member States, inter alia, to strengthen international cooperation, coordinate land-based grid strengthening and harmonise technical standards. Belgium is part of the North Seas Energy Cooperation. This is a voluntary, bottom-up, market-oriented regional cooperation initiative that has been in place for several years and aims at creating synergies, avoiding inconsistencies between national policies and developing common strategies. The aim is to coordinate and promote the further cost-efficient development of offshore renewable energy. There are consultations on standardisation, technical rules, support and financing mechanisms, etc. If Belgium wants to meet the renewable energy production targets, many experts believe that it will have to reach out to neighbours with more renewable energy potential, such as the Netherlands. The Dutch coastline is somewhat longer than the Belgian coastline, as you know, Madam Minister. This means further integration of the offshore. According to these experts, power cables should not only be laid to the Belgian coast, but also to the region of Antwerp to make industry more sustainable through large volumes of green electricity. I find that remarkable, but it also comes back to the question put by a number of colleagues about future offshore developments at Belgian level. What is your view on the further integration of offshore in the context of the future Belgian objectives and the whole discussion about them? There are several support groups within the North Seas Energy Cooperation in which international cooperation takes shape. Can you give an overview of what has already been achieved here per group? Or is this more of a question for your colleague De Backer? I've already put a slightly modified question to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u71	Madam President, Mr Ravyts, as you know, the possibilities for developing offshore energy production in Belgium are limited. By the end of 2020, 2,262 megawatts will be installed in the North Sea, which will account for an average annual production of 8 terawatts or around 10% of the total Belgian electricity demand. After 2020, the capacity of offshore wind energy in the Belgian North Sea can be further developed to around 4,000 megawatts. Other possibilities for further development should be considered. One of them is further regional integration of the offshore. That is why Belgium has been very active in North Sea cooperation since 2010, first as founder and chairman of the North Seas Countries Offshore Grid Initiative and since 2016 in the North Seas Energy Cooperation, to which you refer. Since early 2020, together with the Netherlands, Belgium has been co-chair of the new working group Delivering 2050, which discusses how cross-border projects can be supported and implemented, with further attention to land-based network planning to transport the necessary electricity and to the management of stakeholders. This will therefore be done through cooperation with the grid operators, regulators, developers and stakeholders from the North Sea countries. In addition, Belgium remains active in the other North Seas Energy Cooperation working groups on offshore network planning, maritime spatial planning and coordination of tenders and funding possibilities. Your second question. During the ministerial meeting of 20 June 2019 to which you refer, an overview was made of what was achieved in the different groups. I will give you a report by working group. There are four working groups. I will send you my reply in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u72	Madam Minister, the working group Delivering 2050 is of course very important for the further work on cross-border cooperation and, of course, network planning. Everything is a bit related, including colleagues' questions for the future. I will listen to that with attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u73	Madam Secretary, I will not read the full question. The bottom line is that if we want these windmills at sea, there is a lot of work to be done to make the tender. There is a task force for this. When's the last time it got together? What progress can this task force make in the coming months? What about the three KBs and the ministerial decision and the preparation of the preliminary studies?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u74	Madam Minister, I would like to endorse Mr Wollants' introduction. Last week, you stated in Parliament that you were prepared to consider how to speed up the second offshore zone. I have the following questions. What is the state of play with regard to the Royal Decree on tender? Can such a KB be adopted in current cases? Without connection one is nothing with the tender. What alternatives are being examined today if Elia can't guarantee the connection of new capacity by 2023-2024? More specifically, are the following slopes investigated: a cross-border connection with the Netherlands or France, connecting in Doel or any other slopes? What steps have already been taken and is this discussed in the offshore task force? Is there consultation with the Regions on the authorisation procedures for the strengthening of the high-voltage grid?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u75	Madam President, I also have a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u76	It's listed separately on the agenda. Is she gonna talk about this, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u77	It's actually a double question. I also asked for a state of affairs, but I had also added a topical note to it and perhaps the question was put separately on the agenda. As a result of last weekend's storm, I was wondering what the situation was with the windmills being shut down at some point. Is that something that Elijah or the operators are monitoring or is it imposed by the government? I was also wondering if there have been any incidents in the past. I added that to my question, but for the rest she was on the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u78	I have the question at point No. 21. It is a question of Question No 1, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u79	This is a very technical question and the answer will be long. Ladies and gentlemen, today there are two offshore wind development areas: the one in the east, which extends over a 221 km2 area, which is now completely occupied, and the one in the west, which is planned for 285 km2 and whose development will start from 2020 until 2030. As far as the first zone is concerned, around 1.6 gigawatts of windmills are currently operational in the Belgian North Sea, after the completion in 2019 of the construction of the wind farms of Interestel and Nortel. In 2020, around 2.2 to 2.3 gigawatts, including the 1.6 gigawatts mentioned above, will be operational to windmills in the Belgian North Sea, after the completion of the construction of the Northwest 2 wind farms and SeaMade, a merger of Seastar and Mermaid. As you know, concessions were awarded a long time ago. The question of support was completely reviewed, as I said earlier, in 2017-2018 by the government to which I belong, taking into account developments in foreign parks, in the interest of the consumer in order to avoid excessive weighting of the bill. I would remind you that this is a decrease. In fact, the offshore operators were deprived of EUR 4 billion of support compared to the previous regime, to the best advantage of consumers, citizens and businesses. We could not, of course, continue as before, and that is why we have reacted. Elia's MOG (Modular Offshore Grid) was installed and inaugurated in September 2019, as you can remember. In 2015, the year of setting our 2020 targets, when we reached a political agreement on the 2013-2020 burden sharing before going to the COP in Paris, there were only three wind farms in operation: Sea Power, Belwind and Northwind for 700 megawatts. At that time, we reached an agreement by making forecasts for 2020 based on what was known about the concessions granted to different companies to create parks by the end of 2020. Today, almost five years later, five additional parks have been added, so this is a triple capacity and an offshore catch developed by Elia, the MOG. There are no new decisions or problems that have yet to be resolved or addressed. The developers of the parks are in full swing and my administration is following that work. I understand the other questions that are asked that they concern the second development zone. I turn now to the other speakers. The task force I mentioned earlier includes representatives of the cabinets, the ministers responsible for the North Sea and energy, the three administrations concerned, the transmission system operator Elia and the CREG. It meets approximately every three months and about five meetings have already taken place. The latest Task Force meeting on this subject took place on 11 December 2019. So, a few days ago. Contacts are also held approximately every six months with the main Belgian and European federations, BOP (Belgian Offshore Platform) and WindEurope. Everyone is working to allow the first wind turbines to start operating in 2025. We know well that both the Ventilus (Western Flanders) and the Boucle du Hainaut projects are connected to the Stevin project. There's a connection to the Hainaut Loop in Avelgem. These projects are on the critical path. Parks are not the problem. Everyone's focused on parks, but I think that as far as parks are concerned, it's going to be pretty good and fast. You said it yourself in plenary, Mrs Van der Straeten, last Thursday. I have not been able to extend myself to the plenary on this subject, but the real problem is the commissioning of the Hainaut and Ventilus loops, which will enable the high-voltage electricity transmission network to be strengthened, but also to carry the electricity produced by the new wind field on the 285 square kilometres surface, which I mentioned earlier. Wind technology is mature. The future development of wind energy will be achieved through a competitive mechanism. We hope that we will have the best technology at the lowest price. This will allow the consumer to benefit from the lowest price for the best result. In the meantime, an open call for tenders for an external coordination mission has been launched, and an open call for tenders for certification will be launched in the near future. Once the external coordinator has been appointed, the next task force will be expanded to include technical experts, including Defence, in order to provide the external coordinator with existing studies and data for gap analysis as soon as possible. Eight weeks is foreseen for this. The other (...) studies will then be able to start with soil, wind, water. The outcome of the data gap analysis, available data and required studies, depending on missing data, will be discussed in consultation with the relevant sector. At the request of the ENOVER working group, certain members of the relevant task force have now held a new interim consultation with the regional administrations and Cabinets within the framework of the licensing coordinating and facilitating committee. The aim is to further encourage and monitor the progress of the onshore grid reinforcement projects. In the meantime, the network operator has further refined the conceptual offshore grid design MOG II to two possible scenarios, on which he has provided the necessary explanations. The final design will be determined by the Minister of Energy and the Minister responsible for the Marine Environment and Marine Spatial Planning by a decision, after consultation in the Ministerial Council and after the GREG's advice is expected to be in early 2021. The preparation of the necessary implementing decisions is currently under preparation with a view to achieving an additional offshore renewable production capacity of 1.75 gigawatt by 2030. The publication of a tender is foreseen in 2023 in order to allow the placing in service of the first new production facilities from 2025-2026. To this end, the necessary preliminary studies will be organised first in the period 2020-2021 and the necessary implementing decisions will be taken by 2022, under the Framework Act of 12 May 2019. This includes a royal decision which will determine the tender's rules of play, as well as a ministerial decision identifying the lots, location, size and number, with the main conclusions of the preliminary studies in annex. The preparation of the necessary implementing decisions is currently under preparation. Although the envisaged timing 2025-2026 for the construction of the first park depends, inter alia, on the following two uncertain factors: firstly, the results of the ongoing Natura 2000 studies under the European Birds and Habitats Directive, and secondly, the licensing process of the onshore grid enhancement projects Ventilus and Boucle du Hainaut, which... ...that I mentioned earlier. I can't say it in Dutch, I'm starting to get tired, excuse me. Can such royal decisions and ministerial decisions be adopted in a period of current cases? In the light of the circular of the Federal Public Service Chancery of the Prime Minister of 21 December 2018 and since the Royal Decree on the modalities of the tender must be submitted to the Council of Ministers and therefore requires a new initiative in which a number of important policy choices have to be made, the adoption of the aforementioned implementing decisions, according to my administration, seems to have to be done by a government in full power and therefore does not seem to be possible simply by a government in current cases. Have alternatives or slopes been investigated today if Elia cannot guarantee the connection of new capacity by 2023-2024? Onshore networking should enable the first deployment of additional offshore renewable production capacity from 2025-2026, as I said. To this end, the following two investment projects by network operators Ventilus and Boucle du Hainaut are fully engaged. As far as MOG II is concerned, I would remind you that the law of 12 May 2019, passed on 4 April 2019, provides that it is Elia, the network manager, who is putting in place a project to extend the Modular Offshore Grid. Onshore connection projects to consumer centres were approved on April 26, 2019, as part of the Federal Electricity Transmission System Development Plan 2020-2030. The task force thus works according to its assumptions. At this stage, other alternatives are not considered. The analysis currently focuses mainly on MOG II. Finally, in addition to the transmission of electricity from offshore parks, the Ventilus and Loop du Hainaut projects are also carried out to support the economic development of West and East Flanders and Hainaut and to ensure the connection capacity which could be limited in economic zonings as well as the security of operational supply by adequate technical redundancy. Elia told me that these reinforcements are in all cases necessary. The task force today does not signal to me any delay in setting up Ventilus and Loop of the Hainaut. The files are moving forward. On the other hand, changing strategies at this stage or implementing other avenues could bring one or the other opportunity. It is in this sense that you ask the question, but it may also involve other risks and delays. I do not want to destabilize the vast converging study and work that is being done in all these instances to force them to study other avenues. In addition to the timing aspect that is frequently stressed by parks that need to have a safe route for their financial clauses, account should be taken of the additional cost that could be caused by these alternatives. It is a right balance that must always be found because in the end, it is always consumers who, in one way or another, will pay the bill. If it gets late, they'll pay for it, too. The control of the electricity bill paid by households is just as important to me. It is certainly not up to the consumer to pay the additional costs of the promoters who would themselves benefit from the slowing down of their projects. Rather, it is up to the authority to ensure that everything goes slowly, perhaps, but surely, with the goal of achieving 2025-2026. With regard to the consultation with the Regions, from a global point of view, I would remind you that the projects entitled MOG II, Ventilus and Boucle du Hainaut are part of the Federal Development Plan for the Electricity Transmission System 2020-2030 which I approved on 26 April 2019. In this context, I reminded Elia that the government's ambition was to expand offshore wind production and thus achieve a capacity of 4 GW before 2030. I have asked that priority be given to the various projects allowing the effective and efficient connection, within the required time, between this offshore production and consumers. These are the MOG II enlargements, the Stevin-Avelgem corridor and the Avelgem-centre-Boulcle corridor of Hainaut. All these elements are crucial and absolutely essential. As foreseen by the legislation and through the applicable regulations, the draft plan had been submitted to the Regions for consultation. For example, the Walloon Region had insisted that particular attention should be paid to the actual realization of a corridor between the communes of Avelgem and Courcelles. This extension appears to be essential to increase the reliability of the 380 kV network but also and above all to support the economic development of the province of Hainaut. As I had the opportunity to read it, the regeerakkoord van de Vlaamse Regering 2019-2024 provided: "We give priority to the network-enhancing Ventilus project and facilitate optimal process progress, including alternative investigations in accordance with the ongoing EIA procedure." Finally, the future development of offshore wind energy is well enshrined in the Interfederal Energy Pact, as well as in the PNEC, an instrument whose scope is also inter-federal. My administration has confirmed to me that consultations are being held with the administrations of the Regions under the VCFC licensing and facilitation committee on behalf of the ENOVER working group. With regard to the authorisation procedures for strengthening the onshore high-voltage grid, if a problem arises here, it will always be possible to bring the offshore project before the Consultation Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u80	Madam Minister, of course your very comprehensive answer contains a lot of food and drink, but it is particularly clear that there is still a great deal of work to be done to ensure that the second zone is there. This also works in different domains. I agree with you that the current residual government is not in a position to determine these new policy intentions. I therefore think it wise to continue working on this, but in close consultation with Parliament. After all, it would not be a good idea for this dossier to drag on for too long, as would the new government itself. The preparation will then come on a critical path. Even if those connections are there, but if we're not done with the other part, there's still a problem. In addition, there are still some choices to be made under the framework law. You know that the mechanism was not yet clear what it was going to be. I therefore think it would be useful for Parliament to follow this closely. Apparently, the task force met for the last time in December. Perhaps it is not uninteresting if, after a period of three months, we once again examine how far one stands and what steps can be taken. In this way we can find a basis in Parliament for preparing a number of things.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u81	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply. I absolutely agree with you that the main challenge is to strengthen the grid, with Ventilus and Boucle du Hainaut. If we want to speed up, we still have to consider using a double strategy. On the one hand, we can try to speed up what is already going on by further consultation with the Regions and on the other hand we can also check whether there are no alternative slopes possible. After all, that is never lost effort. Even if we were to connect the offshore in a different way and the onshore grid reinforcement would take more time, we would need that onshore grid strengthening d'office, if only to connect other production capacity. If we're really serious about that acceleration, then that has to be taken into account in the trade-offs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u82	Madam Secretary, thank you for the detailed answer. I agree with what has already been said here. There is still a great deal of work to be done, but there is also great political support for these projects. We all know how crucial this will be for our energy security. I also share your concern about grid reinforcement. You didn't answer the question of how to deal with the storm. Do you have that information and can you give it to us? We would like to know exactly what this is about. Does the government play a role in this or is this to the operators themselves? Have there been any incidents in the past?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u83	Madam President, I can still answer a question. We will continue our discussions in a later session.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u84	We still have ten minutes left. Maybe at that time we can deal with three more questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u85	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns specifically the initiative taken in a number of countries to certify grey electricity. They believe that this has a number of advantages. In addition, we ask in the Electricity Act, among other things, to mention a number of items on the invoice in the field of origin. However, this is also the case for the regions. This leads to the opportunity question of how to proceed. In other words, I have two questions. Firstly, do you believe that at the federal level you are competent to impose the mandatory indications on origin and, therefore, possibly also to import the certificates of origin for grey electricity? Secondly, have your services considered whether it has any advantages in introducing a system of certificates for grey flow? If this is not the case, is such a balance still being made? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u86	Mr Wollants, I am going to give you a first answer, but it would have to go further, which I will do later. Pursuant to Article 6(1) of the Special Act of 8 August 1980, the Federal Government is in all respects exclusively competent for the production of energy through nuclear energy sources and for the production of energy relevant to the security of supply of the country, including the production of energy concerned from fossil fuels, excluding in particular onshore renewable energy sources and other new sources of energy, energy recovery and all related regional competences. In view of the above and in view of the residual competence of the Federal Government, the Federal Government therefore seems to be competent to introduce and regulate certificates of origin for grey electricity, in the case of electricity produced from fossil energy sources (coal, gas and oil) or nuclear energy, where appropriate, after consultation with the Regions, as provided for in Article 6(3) of the same special law of 8 August 1980, the jurisdiction in question does not in fact appear exclusively in the list of Article 6(1). That's the technique. But to your question, there is a slightly more political answer, which I will give you later, if you agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u87	Madam President, Minister, thank you for that part of the answer. We'll see what comes next. At least it's a strange thing. A number of cases are at the same time being done by the federal level through the electricity law and by the Flemish Region through the energy decree. They impose things that don't exactly match. By this I mean that in the Flemish region the division of the place of origin of the electricity is different from that of the electricity law. Both wring together. It is therefore useful to look at a number of points which can be done. In the next step it can then be considered whether the track of the grey certificates, for example Austria, Switzerland and the Netherlands, makes sense or whether we should ask ourselves more questions. However, I look forward to the next step.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u88	Madam Minister, federal legislation still imposes a reporting obligation on installations generating less than 25 MW. In the meantime, many plants are already covered by this obligation, such as solar panels and micro-cogeneration plants, micro-wk. But no one meets the reporting requirements. Your predecessor once replied to me that there was no verification of compliance with that obligation. Do you agree with me that this obligation has no value at the moment, for example when it comes to PV installations? Are you prepared to change the royal decision in that respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u89	Mr Wollants, in practice the obligation is not met by small installations of up to 10 kVA, for example for households. The larger installations of, for example, some megawatts are notified according to the provisions of the Royal Decree of 11 October 2000. A draft revision of that royal decree is currently being prepared by my administration. The provisions relating to reporting obligations will be amended. A minimum capital limit will be included in the reporting obligation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-11-55-commissie-ic106x.u90	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You are already showing more decisiveness in this area than your predecessor. In fact, it seems to me appropriate and proper that the Royal Decree should be adapted to what we expect from it, so that there will be no remaining obligations that can be used in a different way sooner or later. I look forward to the way the royal decree will be adjusted.
