ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u1	I welcome the ministers and colleagues here. We are going to debate the Royal Decree of Special Powers No. 14. Is there a colleague who wishes to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u2	Mr President, Ministers, as stated in the report to the King, the objective of this Order is to ensure that employers in these crucial sectors and essential services have a sufficient number of workers to continue to function. We must also prepare for an increase in the number of sick or quarantined workers in these sectors, which could endanger the continuity of the activity, which must, of course, be avoided. My group and I believe that these measures are in the right direction. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for the measures you have taken in favour of companies and the purchasing power of workers. However, I would like to ask you a few questions. For example, with regard to successive CSDs, it is indicated that an informal emergency opinion has been requested from the Group of Ten. What is the latter's position on this matter? Is this opinion unanimous? It has now been a month and a half since our companies and workers have been facing the negative impacts of the crisis. All the measures were announced a few weeks ago. Could you tell us whether, at this stage, these measures have had the desired labour force effects? Finally, I come to the question of asylum seekers who are potential workers. Have they been sufficiently informed of the possibility of working in the context of the health crisis? Do you have any figures on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u3	We have a lot of reserves in Royal Decree No. 14. After all, we believe that a number of measures go beyond the objective. A lot of measures are being taken which also apply to the critical sectors, while at the same time a distinction has to be made. In fact, the list of critical sectors is too extensive. Employers will have a whole arsenal at their disposal to make work even more flexible. The government also ensures that certain workers can be made available very cheaply, and we have questions. In the vital sectors, especially seasonal work, people are looking for labour. However, it is a certain contradiction when, on the one hand, workers in certain sectors are placed on economic unemployment and, on the other hand, the overtime package may increase in the critical sectors. There can be up to 120 extra overtime on a voluntary basis, but this is a euphemism: once employers are able to use an extra overtime system, employees in a subordinate position will often address it, even if they may not wish to. When I see all the measures listed, I have to think of a shock doctrine: a number of recipes are now being applied in crisis time, as a reflection of the labour market in the post-corona era. We are very critical of this. In addition, there is no involvement of trade unions or any syndicated control. As far as overtime is concerned, there is no social democracy. In addition, a text allowing 120 overtime hours to be performed in the second quarter amounts to a law Peters on steroids. We have serious questions about this. In the vital sectors we see that social security is mainly used to ensure that the labour force is delivered, at the expense of social security. After all, candidates retain 75% of their benefit and the rest of the salary is supplemented by the employer, who is also favoured by tax. With this KB, the government also organises competition, because it allows students to work in all sectors, at the top of the 475 hours of student work. However, the number of job students has fallen dramatically compared to last year, also of course due to the fact that the hotels, hotels and shops are closed. Why do we want to encourage this when there are not so many job students working in certain sectors? Why is this being promoted in this way? I think they're gonna miss the point. Then there are the measures for the employment of foreign nationals in specific residence situations. Are there any conditions attached to that? The employer is responsible for receiving asylum seekers. In what circumstances are they being taken care of? Is that something that is being monitored? We have a lot of questions at the KB. In fact, it means that the government makes labour very flexible and that cheap labour can be supplied. It is also about the critical sectors, and the measures therefore concern a large number of workers. Many employers are provided with tools to put enormous pressure on their employees without the involvement of the trade union.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u4	Ministers, as other colleagues have already said, the measures taken by battery in this royal decree of special powers are quite broad. In terms of change, there will be work. As you know, they have given rise to lengthy discussions in Kern+10 meetings. Rightly, because some provisions go very far in changing labour law. Under certain conditions, we can understand this in view of the acute health crisis we are experiencing. In other circumstances, we do not understand, and I will return to it. We officially disagreed, within Ecolo-Groen, on two specific measures. We believe that others of these measures are interesting, but within a limited period of time. It's important. I will start with the measures for which we have formally disagreed or at least a profound misunderstanding that has turned into disagreement. The first is in Article 2 and deals with the increase in defied voluntary overtime. It can be understood that there is now a need for reward or support mechanisms for workers who are on the front lines in all sectors. I am thinking of the health and medical sector, but also of other sectors, such as large-scale distribution and food. These, of course, deserve salary increases and more pay. But here, the chosen path is a problem. Pushing to do debilitated overtime means pushing to work even more. These people are already exhausted today. It would be better to increase their wages structurally by increasing them. That's the first point. On the other hand, the path chosen here does not contribute to social contributions and therefore to the financing of our social security. We also have a problem with this. The second point on which we disagreed was the number of hours worked by students. We are in favour of student work, so that things are clear. But again, it is the way that is chosen here that presents us with a problem, and in particular raising the ceiling for hours worked for all sectors. There's really an incomprehension here. We could understand that in critical areas. Today, there are clearly critical sectors in need of labour. But to extend this measure to all economic sectors seems to us to be quite disproportionate and likely to lead to unfair competition between different sectors. That seems problematic to us. Sectors that traditionally use a lot of students – I'm thinking of large-scale distribution, but there are others – find themselves, in a rather unfair way, advantaged over others. These were the two points on which we had expressed a formal disagreement. But I would still like to ask you questions, since the royal decrees were taken, a little over three weeks ago. Minister, can you already outline an inventory of overtime - their number, the sectors that used it? As far as student work is concerned, what is the state of play in terms of working hours? What sectors did they use? At the level of other measures, there are some things that are interesting. I also wanted to mention asylum seekers today. This is an interesting step. These men and women, who are often in very complicated situations and are seeking asylum, must participate in society as a whole. For us, it is a humanist position, at the base. Participating in society also means working. Allowing them to work and expand this possibility is positive, but we would have liked it to go further by giving them full rights like any other citizen. In principle and in the future, what is planned at this stage for asylum seekers who will be employed in certain sectors? For us, it is not imaginable to simply use people in a working relationship and then thank them without any other form of recognition. It would be a great missed opportunity. How many asylum-seekers are affected by this system? What is planned for the future in terms of full recognition of all their rights to participate in our society? I also wanted to go back to the possibility of concluding fixed-term contracts in succession. This is a provision that can be understood, which is limited in time and to the crisis of the VOCID-19. Do you have figures for those who use them? Can you disaggregate these figures by sector? Can you already give us some information on the availability that has been possible for almost three weeks? It can be understood that this is a system that is not obvious given that it is time-limited, but do you already have any first elements to measure whether or not the sectors concerned have used it? These are my first questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I have three questions about this decision, although it is broad but important. It is designed to ensure the flexibility of our companies and also of the workers who, although they are in temporary unemployment, want to combine this with working in a vital or critical sector. Madam Minister, my first question concerns asylum seekers. They can now be employed immediately and skip the four-month waiting period. It is a good measure but there is a condition attached to it, the employer must offer the asylum seeker a place of residence. Is this condition feasible and how does it work in practice? The condition weighs heavily on the employer who will therefore give priority to workers other than asylum seekers. Maybe that's what they're going to miss. I understand the condition, because if these people go to another bubble and then return to an asylum centre or local reception initiative where many people are present after work, that is obviously a risk. Yet people who work every day in a vital or critical sector come back into the bubble of their families in the evening. For example, could we not provide a separate wing or a number of rooms in the asylum centres for the people who are going to work? I would like to get some more information on why this condition has been set up and how it currently works in practice. In my view, it is an obstacle to putting asylum seekers to work. My other questions are more of a technical nature and the first concerns students whose hours worked in the second quarter are neutralized. It is not clear to me from the text whether this applies to all sectors or only to the vital sectors. I have another question about the temporary suspension of time credits and career breaks in the vital sectors. This Royal Decree has no effect on public staff of the Regions and the Communities, such as education and local authorities. Perhaps there are also people who are technically unemployed and want to work in a vital sector. Have agreements been made with the Regions and the Communities to ensure that they can apply this to their staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the PS spoke against this royal decree in Kern. You will therefore not be surprised to hear that I am quite critical of this decision, since the measures taken are totally unbalanced. Indeed, the priority should be the safety and well-being of workers. It is more than regrettable that the first decision on employment introduces more flexibility at the expense of worker safety and, once again, without genuine social dialogue. You put this social concertation at risk by imposing employers' demands. As far as overtime is concerned, it seems to have become an obsession since your predecessor, Kris Peeters, has breached the 38-hour working week by imposing overtime, with his law on work that is feasible and manageable. And I want to say, fortunately, they were limited to 100 and social consultation could therefore increase them. In this case, you go further. You ignore the consultation by allowing 220 extra hours, under the pretext of the crisis. Farewell the 38 hours a week, while the workers in the large distribution and others are exhausted and can no longer. As far as student work is concerned, it's the same. There is no consultation. You allow more use of students. How can we be sure that students will not replace workers who are temporarily unemployed? The social partners could not be coordinated, due to a lack of information, in particular on tax or family allowances. Will students who exceed their quota still be entitled to family allowances? I would like clarification on the matter. In the case of successive fixed-term contracts, which worker would like to enter into one week's contracts for several months? Not knowing if we're going to work next week is pretty hard. The stress caused by coronavirus is added to that of precariousness. With regard to the provision of staff, which must remain an exceptional measure, we are pleased that our request expressed in Kern has been heard and that the worker is assured that he will be able to receive the fair wage in return for the performance of his task. Finally, for temporary employment in vital sectors, we understand the measure, but the risk of discrimination must be avoided. Why does the worker retain his benefits only when he returns to an employer other than the employer who hired him? How can we justify it? Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I really regret that the government's priority has not been to protect workers, but rather to make work even more flexible. That is why this order is completely disproportionate. I sincerely hope that you will return to social dialogue and that the next decrees will restore balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we support most of the measures, although we have some critical remarks or reservations here and there. The increase in voluntary overtime from 100 to 120 in the critical sectors is certainly a good start. Rewarding through overtime is rewarding through work, which is very good. However, we are also convinced that, in the longer term and in view of the exit strategy, which is now very urgent, the increase will have to be extended to all sectors. This will be necessary if all sectors are to get the wider economy going again. We do not necessarily see the need for the rapid right to provide work for asylum seekers. We do not see the need to move faster or to move faster in this area, knowing that there are currently more than one million beneficiaries who are also waiting to be employed in the labour market. The same applies to student work. For the employment of employees in companies and services in critical sectors and their relaxation, we are pleased to see that the technique and the rules of our bill on the provision of appropriate work are almost fully followed. I repeat and summarize. We support most of the measures, but in particular we see a number of longer-term measures as necessary, also in view of the exit strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u8	Ministers, we are talking about critical areas, including gathering. I am reminded that a number of people come to employers but are not detained because they prefer workers from abroad. I hear the remarks of the N-VA saying that we do not understand the need to speed up the process for people in the Fedasil centres because there are a lot of people looking for employment in our country. But if, on the employers' side, there is no guarantee of a certain receptivity for the people who come forward, all the measures that we place here will be of no use and no impact. I therefore come back to the need for real social consultation in order to be able to control the use which is made of the temporary advantages offered by this royal decree. If people are given bonuses to hire staff and not used, this will have a negative impact on employment. Minister, do you have any figures and information on the refusal by some employers to use the flexibility offered by this royal decree?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u9	Are there any Members who would like to speak? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u10	I shall then give the floor to the two ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u11	Mr President, the red line on measures relating to flexibility has always been the clear framework of the power of attorney decision. The KB is valid in the corona crisis and for a period of two months. Some people are talking about the effects or saying that this is a kind of preliminaries to what the future labour market will look like in our country, but let me be very clear about that. That was also the deal that was made during the supercore. I hope you will have seen that the power of attorney has no possibility of extending the power of attorney within the Council of Ministers. A new decision must be taken to extend it after 30 June. It has been agreed with all parties that these are temporary measures to support flexibility in enterprises. Mrs Galant, you referred to the Group of Ten. Mrs. Thémont, you talked about social consultation. This is not the first time that you have said that we have not organised social consultation, that the decree before us today is the first that we are taking on employment and that it relates to the flexibility of work. May I remind you that in February we were the first country in Europe to take measures to provide workers with temporary unemployment for economic or force majeure reasons? Today, more than a million people benefit from this system because of the coronavirus pandemic. And you dare to tell me that the first step we are taking is flexibility! On the other hand, you are telling me that I have not organized enough consultations. Contrary to what you say, during the preparation of this decree, but also as part of the preparation of other measures, we have had contacts with the social partners, the Group of Ten, the National Labour Council, etc. Our employees here have organised consultations with technicians, social partners, employees and employers. What you are saying is unfair, Mrs Thémont, because it really does not correspond to reality! Then I come to the questions about temporary contracts and the succession of temporary contracts. I can understand the concerns about this. We have created clarity there for two months. We now also need these short contracts, if we want them, because people also have other commitments and the period is short. I want to be clear about the seven days. Mrs Galant, this proposal comes from the social partners, who wanted seven-day contracts. We have taken up this suggestion in the royal decree. At the request of the social partners, we added seven days in order to do so. This is a measure which must now have the necessary effectiveness. There was a demand for concrete figures. Three weeks ago, we made a decision – then reviewed by the Council of State. It is the second week that this measure applies, i.e. to ask for figures, which sectors it concerns and who it concerns, which is far too early. As soon as we have a better view of this, we will give figures and more clarity. But it's only the second week, so I think it's a little early to be clear. Mr De Vuyst, you mentioned the vital sectors. What I did not understand so well was that you said about agriculture and horticulture, that 75% can work while maintaining a benefit or temporary unemployment, supplemented by a wage by the employer. No, there one gets a full wage for the work that one does. If one is employed full-time or half-time in one of the four joint committees within agriculture and forestry, one gets a full-time or half-time wage on top of the 75% allowance, which can be retained. You say that they get a little bit on top of that. That's not right. This is a measure to alleviate the need in that sector. We feel that this need is not only due to temporary unemployment. The pick card, as you know, has also been extended. We have agreed on the admission of foreign workers because we will need them in the future period in order to comply with the harvest obligations. You also referred to the critical sectors listed in the Ministerial Decision. You said that there are people being put into temporary unemployment, while flexibility is bringing in cheaper workers, and that this is not possible. Let me be clear. Critical sectors had to stay at work forever. They could also deviate from the rules on social distancing. We do see that certain companies in the critical sectors have ceased to operate. This often had to do with the absence of certain raw materials or the disappearance of contracts in general. But we also see clearly in the figures on temporary unemployment that it is not because a company places its people in temporary unemployment that this company no longer has any activity. Nor is there any improper use of labour. We also see companies where, for example, servants continue to work or where certain departments and other departments are not kept open. In my view, therefore, it is a little short-sighted to say that companies are putting employees into temporary unemployment and are now replacing them with cheaper labour in critical sectors. The situation on the ground is much more nuanced. I replied to the question about the ex ante reflection by saying that these are crisis measures in a crisis period. It was very clearly agreed that these measures run until 30 June. Any extension, if there were such a wish, will have to go through the full decision-making process again. Mr Vanden Burre, on the subject of overtime, I have already said that I do not have figures. What is also important here is that overtime is always done on a voluntary basis and that information is always provided to the works council and the syndicated delegation. It is important to underline that. This was also clearly taken into account in the discussions we had on this subject. Mrs Slegers, as regards the time-credit and the career break, they also apply to the Communities, unless the Communities take a different decision. If they do not take that decision, they shall also apply to them. That's the rule that applies today. You also had questions about the students and asylum seekers involved, but I leave that to my colleague. Mrs Thémont, I think I have answered your comments in general. Mrs Houtmeyers, you are asking whether these measures are sufficient for agriculture and horticulture. A number of Members ask why these vital sectors are limited to those four joint committees. At some point we have made the exercise to see it a little wider, for example in the food and distribution sectors. Today, however, we note that this question was very short-lived and has now disappeared. We have had several contacts with other sectors with the question of whether there was a need for them and we have been told that solutions were being sought. These are sectors which are very often linked to part-time work. They get there by raising contracts and by giving more hours to part-time workers through overtime arrangements. In many sectors, even before we took that measure, there were many overtime on a voluntary basis, especially in the food and distribution sector. After we have taken that measure in relation to the vital sectors, there have been few subsequent requests from other sectors to do so. That is why we have limited ourselves to the vital sectors of agriculture and horticulture today. How do we see the measures under the exit strategy? We started with the companies today. We already feel that this will be a very gradual process, which will take place in different stages. If everything goes well, the retail sector will be added next week. That'll be the next step. Many measures have already been taken, for example with regard to temporary unemployment. The measures we have yet to take must be sufficiently supportive and activating for the sectors that are already at work, but above all for those that will have a major impact for a long time to come, such as the event sector, the travel sector, tourism, the hospitality industry which is starting up again in June but which is strongly linked to events. The measures must therefore be sufficiently supportive in the long term. Flexibility is an important factor in combating this crisis, including in the area of work organisation. We will have to create a completely new framework for this relance in which we give oxygen through measures that support the sectors and the labour market.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u12	Mr President, I would like to focus on the students. We don't have any figures yet, but in 2018 there were more than 544,000 students at work. We cannot yet measure the impact of the corona crisis on student labour, but this effect will be considerable because many students work in the hospitality sector. Nor can we really measure through Dimona, because the declarations and the figures we have now are not yet stable enough. We do know from the PPS Social Integration that more and more students come to the OCMW, because they get into trouble because of the disappearance of student work, while they used to get around with the combination Student@work and a possible contribution from the family. The counter stays where it stood for the second quarter, the hours performed in the second quarter are not added. For example, they are not covered by the known 475 hours quota. The solidarity contribution remains due, but these hours do not count for filling the numerator of 475 hours. So they are, as it were, forgiven on the counter. So the students can make a catch-up move. Mr Vanden Burre, it is technically not possible to control in which sectors the hours have been worked. Student@work is a very simple Dimona procedure and it is not possible to make a difference. There will also be a draft law in the Chamber by my colleague Alexander De Croo, or it has already been tabled by him, to shut down the tax counter and not to levy taxes on it. We have also sent a message to the Länder, which are responsible for family allowances, to point out the problems for students who would still receive children's money from their parents. Asylum seekers have been on our territory for four months before they can go to work somewhere. We are now putting forward the date of 13 March 2020 to avoid an attraction effect. This means that asylum seekers who are here from 13 March 2020 can now be employed. However, it must be made clear that they must be able to receive care from employers. It is therefore a question of labour for which foreign workers come to us, for example for the picking of strawberries or now asparagus, then apples, pears and cherries and for which the necessary accommodation is available. After all, this is the kind of work that will be done by those involved and accommodation is already available for that purpose. We are doing so now in particular to prevent the creation of a vat-et-vient in the asylum centres and the LOIs. After all, one is always in a different community. The LOIs are not separate buildings, they are small studios in one building for example. We do not want the people involved to go from one bubble to another. Again, the measure is limited in time and applies for the next two months. After all, we must make it possible for everything that can be harvested to be harvested effectively. In this way, the proceeds for our growers, who have invested their money in them, will not be lost. Fedasil and the VDAB are working together to make it clear to farmers who are unable to get their usual foreign workers through the closed borders this year that they can rely on this. Of course, all the conditions must be respected, because we want to avoid mutual contamination by keeping people in the same bubble. Mr Vanden Burre, this is not unfair competition, otherwise no one would do this job. After the four-month period, they are still able to work. They then fall back on the ordinary rules that allow them to work. This is, of course, independent of whether or not they will be recognised as asylum seekers in their proceedings. This procedure does not take into account any work experience. There are other legal bases based on the explanation why the asylum seeker has been drawn to our country. The asylum seekers know that too. I think I've answered most of the questions with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u13	I thank the Ministers for their reply. These are temporary measures. The Ministers discussed the temporary nature of the matter. Allow me to refer in this connection to the practice of our committee. As we did for the Justice aspect last week, when the numbered royal decree provides for a limited extension, this extension is also addressed in this committee. In the event of an extension, it is not intended to re-examine the substance of the matter, but to discuss the opportunity of the extension. This may also be the case for the royal decree that is now before us, given what Chapter 7. Ladies and gentlemen, not all of you have been able to speak. You do not take it to the detriment of the Ministers that they do not answer any more questions they have already answered. The new questions you may be asking will be answered by the Ministers in a second round. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Langenhove. Colleagues who would like to speak afterwards can come forward with a show of hands.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u14	Mr President, I was in traffic. It seems that this can still be done in Belgium during the corona crisis, but I have been able to follow through the live stream what colleagues have said. Following on from what you have just said, Mr President, I have just heard a number of colleagues expressing their concern that some of the measures would be extended or that the RB would be misused in order to convert the measures specifically intended for this crisis into normal economic policies. I have just heard the word'shock therapy' fall on a colleague of the PVDA. It is strange, however, that the same colleagues warn that the RB will be abused in order to normalise the measures and, at the same time, call for the measures taken in favour of asylum seekers to be translated into standardised policies and to be implemented in the future. A colleague even called for asylum seekers to be given all the rights that Belgian citizens have right away. Speaking of a slippery wreck... A colleague even noted that it would be necessary to employ asylum seekers to prevent the continuity of our economy from being compromised by a lack of healthy labour force. I would advise him to look at the facts in detail again, because that remark is really very far from reality. In fact, my comments remain valid after the ministers' replies. My group is convinced that relaxing the employment of asylum seekers will have an effect on the intake of asylum seekers, insofar as this can become even greater in Belgium, because Belgium, as a destination country, has been a top favourite for asylum seekers, whether legitimate or not. You say it is a temporary measure, Minister De Block, but that will not happen to potential asylum seekers. We know from the past that the design of a particular initiative is not always the way it happens abroad. Moreover, my group finds it very harsh that asylum seekers are now being sought at a time when more than a million people are technically unemployed in our country and many flexi-jobs and students are looking for a decent replacement income. The shortage of labour in the agricultural and horticultural sectors will not be fundamentally solved by luring asylum seekers, but by making it more attractive for their own people to work temporarily in this sector. The fact that a harvest would be lost if we did not involve asylum seekers is, of course, really ridiculous. Flemings and Waals also have two hands and two legs. They can actually do that job, especially now that there are so many technically unemployed. I did it, my brother did it, my sister did it. Flemings can also really pick fruit, they can also work in the agriculture and horticulture sector. In line with what Mrs Slegers said, how exactly will the reception of asylum seekers be organised by employers? I was a little hungry because of your answer, Mrs. De Block. How will you ensure safety? The need for employers to take care of asylum seekers if they want to use them as cheap workers is no different than to shuffle off your responsibility. Finally, Minister Muylle, I understand that it is too early to give figures, but I would like to stress that it is very important to follow them very closely. This royal decision provides for much-needed flexibility, which my group certainly recognizes, but it can also give rise to abuse. If that were to happen, it would of course be extremely important to be able to identify it as soon as possible, so that it can be resolved as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u15	I apologize for the delay. I don't know if my questions have been asked yet. I apologize if I repeat myself. I would like a clarification on Chapter 2 and in particular on the 120 extra overtime that can be worked for three months. Today, in any case, there is already a scheme whereby people can voluntarily perform 120 overtime on an annual basis. Now there will be another 120 overtime in the next three months. However, an internal limit has been set which stipulates that people are not allowed to perform too much overtime at the same time. There is also a European average that must not be exceeded. During a period of four months an average of 48 hours a week is not allowed. If I put everything together, I'm already getting close to that European border. I fear that on top of the existing overtime that can already be performed, 120 hours more can now be added, without the necessary catching-up rest, which is covered at European level. It is of course a good thing that people are working and willing to help in a difficult situation, but it is also the task of the government to ensure that people rest on time. That's why there's boundaries built in. Why have we chosen this route? If the intention was to reward the workers who have done their best during this period and to ensure that they would earn more, it would have been better to reduce and exempt overtime. Why have we chosen this route, where the risk is very high that we will cross the European border and not a tax reduction?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u16	Ministers, thank you for your answers. I understand that there are no figures yet. For the rest, I'm not going back to the bottom. Mrs De Block, you say that I mentioned unfair competition in my speech. It is true that I mentioned this word but it was in relation to student work and not in relation to the work of asylum seekers. I wanted to point it out so that it was perfectly clear and there was no misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have noted a number of things from your answers. Mr Vanden Burre has just spoken about the deloyal competition that could arise. Let us look at the corona heroes, for whom we come on the streets every day to applaud, so the people who fill the boxes and provide supplies in the supermarkets. If student labour becomes unlimited in the coming months, if these students can be employed in the supermarket and if they then face employees with a fixed status, who pay social contributions, then I see a problem. This will lead to a more precarious situation and a downward spiral of competition. Then there is a very great danger. It is also said that there has been consultation with the social partners and the Group of Ten, but there will be no syndical control in the implementation of the measures. And that is also a very big problem. We stand by it, the measures that are now being taken are completely out of line. Other colleagues have said that they are disproportionate, that is true. Let us look at the measures taken for the vital sectors, where there is a shortage of cheap labour. There we need to boost working conditions and wage conditions so that it becomes attractive for a lot of people who are not reluctant to be employed in these sectors, rather than financing them through social security. These are the temporary unemployed or those with SWT, who can be employed in that sector, if they can retain 75% of their remuneration plus the salary they receive. It was also cited by Mrs Thémont, but I have not yet received an answer as to how this is justified. After all, one employee will receive much more for the work carried out compared to the colleague who is simply employed there. As far as voluntary overtime is concerned, there are now a million people on economic unemployment. As soon as the economy gradually resumes, all these people will go back to work. So I do not understand why we still want to apply these additional flexibility measures. When the exit is taking place and people are all going to work, why do they all have to be caught up in these measures? Why should those people who can get back to work be caught by a measure which allows the employer to say that they cannot work overtime for the next three months? There is no excess pay, no net pay and no social contribution, there too, social security income is lost and the employee is subordinate, as I said earlier. After all, he is placed in a difficult position. It concerns vital sectors, such as seasonal work, where there is demand for cheap labour, but also all other sectors, such as the critical sectors that had to continue to operate. We believe that this list is far too extensive, because it contains a number of non-essential sectors that can remain active all the time. Now that is going to be applied to two thirds of the workers in this country. We are asking fundamental questions about this, and we cannot at all agree with the way in which that royal decree was drafted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u18	Thank you for your answers, Minister. Mrs Muylle, I know that we often cling to social consultation, which we do not have the same vision. That's my right again. The social partners have not delivered an opinion on a text which has been sent to the Group of Ten. If this is the definition of social consultation for you, my opinion is not the same. I think we need a dialogue and not just a text. It is not for nothing that my party has tabled a bill that will put this social concertation at the heart of things. I wanted to stress this point. I am still glad to hear you say, in your answer on flexibility, that in fact these decrees of special powers are taken for three months – fortunately. I'll be careful.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u19	Mrs Kitir, in relation to overtime, I have already raised a number of points. It is important, however, that the European borders of 48 hours and 13 weeks are respected. That limit is also included in the law on workable and manoeuvrable work. That limit is therefore fixed and it is quite clear that it must be respected. Why didn't we just work with a reduction from the first hour? Well, the decision had to be made at a time when there had been a lot of overtime in some sectors, not least in the food sector. Moreover, in the supermarkets, the distribution sector is well-known to me from earlier work, namely the obligation to offer additional overtime to part-time workers first. For this reason, too, there was much less demand for temporary unemployed to be involved. The expansion of contracts in many part-time contracts and overtime arrangements can already be achieved. Mr De Vuyst asked a question about this. I also admit that this consideration has led us to some caution. In fact, we are not insensitive to the problem that temporary unemployed, while retaining benefits, could earn more than the cashier, for example, besides whom they work at the cash register and who has been doing that job for a long time. In the long term, we will end up in situations where temporary unemployed work equally many hours in a totally different wage situation. That is why we felt it was a good idea to start by rewarding people who have sometimes been working for longer periods under a part-time contract in the distribution sector and who were often asking for more hours of work. We have therefore focused rather on extending part-time contracts, not so much on the temporary unemployed. Agriculture and horticulture is a completely different sector in this respect, as employment in this sector is more seasonal. In this sector, we clearly have much less to do with permanent labour, which means that new workers are not competitive. That's not unimportant. Mr De Vuyst, the measure contained in Article 7 concerning the deployment of temporary unemployed is only until 30 May. The other measures run until 30 June. We have included this phase in order to take account of the needs of the labour market and the situation of temporary unemployment. As the President said, if adjustments are needed, this will be done again in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u20	Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna take this. Mr Van Langenhove, there is no suction effect, because one had to be in Belgium on 13 March. Coming now is no use at all. Those people won't be able to get to work. It's about work. With all due respect, I've done a lot of things as a vacation job and I've been studying for a long time and have to do a lot of things. If you want to do that job, it's fine, but not everyone wants to do that job. Otherwise, no seasonal workers would be brought here, because that also costs money, just like making the accommodation available. If someone in Belgium wanted to do that work, except students and people who are already temporarily in our country, they would have done so before. They asked if it was necessary now. It is indeed necessary, for example in health care, where an increasing number of people are out of battle because of the efforts they have made. Some people have become ill and have to recover from it. Then other people will have to do that job, knowing that we in the care sector were already too short of hands before the corona crisis, because the care professions are no longer so attractive. We then have the choice: are we going to employ students from such directions or are we going to reclaim people who are now sick, physically or because they have become too much emotionally.I have heard that more and more people are home by burning out? That is the choice we must make. We choose to let people who are recovering recover and engage other people to do the job temporarily. We must now open up all registers so that there are enough staff in hospitals: there are no longer so many people hospitalized with the corona virus, but there are now also people who go to hospital for other matters, as normal procedures are also getting going again. In our hospitals, not to mention the residential care centers, there has been a real exhaustion blow. A number of people are now recovering from this while our hospitals now also have to perform a catching-up operation for the care that has been postponed. From this day forward, this is a step-by-step approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u21	If no one wishes to replicate we can discuss KB No. 14 end with this. I thank the Ministers for their presence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u22	We are now beginning the debate on the Royal Judgment of Special Powers No. 13 concerning the right of access for self-employed workers. Does anyone wish to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u23	Mr President, normally we do not support measures whereby two income replacement benefits can be combined, unless there are two partial benefits. This royal decree does contain that clause. The two benefits may not exceed EUR 1,614. It is an example of other legislative proposals, which do not contain any restriction on the combination of two income replacement benefits. We are therefore giving a very positive opinion on this measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u24	Mr President, I have read this royal decree carefully. It is quite clear that the aim is to minimize the impact of the crisis on self-employed and supplementary self-employed persons for whom these supplementary incomes constitute a significant part of their income, or on active self-employed pensioners. Your leitmotiv, since the beginning of the crisis, is to preserve as much as possible the purchasing power of all these people. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the proactive way in which you managed your skills, and especially for the effectiveness of these measures in the field. Minister, my only question is based on the figures. Can you tell us how many independents they asked for the bridge right? What is the budgetary impact? How many additional independents do they benefit from this partial bridge right? How many active self-employed pensioners? Finally, I read recently that you are considering continuing these exceptional aid measures for the month of May? Do you also confirm this for these categories of complementary self-employed workers and pensioners? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u25	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u26	I didn't hear her.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u27	Minister, we can welcome this proposal because many people will lose their income because of this situation. It's also good that it's limited, but I still have a question. Why has it not been taken into account whether the main action is ongoing or not? There is no difference whether the main occupation is still active or whether it has been shut down. In both cases, the secondary occupation receives a bridging loan. I would like to hear why this has not been taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u28	Minister, the Labour Party also believes that this royal decision is in the right direction, since several categories of people can claim the right to bridge. This also applies, for example, to people with an additional self-employed activity or pensioners who also have a self-employed secondary income. Unfortunately, however, citizens' testimonies show that the measures taken do not fully meet the needs and aspirations of the population. A full bridge fee is 1,600 euros. In some cases, this only covers monthly costs. Self-employed people who have to rent a warehouse or property or store their equipment somewhere, spend almost entirely on it. This does not alter the fact that the measures are moving in the right direction. Unfortunately, there are still a lot of self-employed people who slip between the loopholes. A number of thresholds are also foreseen. People who have suffered a significant loss of purchasing power from around EUR 7,000 on account of the corona crisis, but have not had to stop and have been able to continue working, can also rely on a measure. However, if a person has just started a self-employed activity, that person cannot rely on the right of bridging, which is then half of the right of bridging that can be invoked. In addition, it is good to act quickly and to grant lump sums, but these amounts sometimes do not take into account the personal situation of many people who are part-time workers and part-time self-employed. Some also have a temporary unemployment benefit for part-time workers of around EUR 500 to 600 per month, supplemented by a half-bridged right. This situation is still rather precarious. Daniel Cauwel, the chairman of the Syndicate of Self-employed and SMEs, also said that many self-employed people are slowly being squeezed to death. I wonder, Minister, if you could make a number of creative proposals to ensure that the fixed costs of self-employed workers can be met in such a way that they can at least make a living. You gave examples of people slipping into the meshes of the net. I wonder if you've thought of them, too? People who have just started must rely on their income, but of course some cannot refer to the year before. I'd like to get some clarification on that. Only the self-employed who had to stop their activities completely can avail themselves of this. Unless they had to close because they were hampered by the corona crisis in such a way that they no longer have normal turnover. But those who continued to work, even if they had reduced revenues, cannot rely on that measure either. The slogan: rewarding those who stay at work will unfortunately not work. I wonder if you could offer any relief for those people, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u29	Mr Minister, the Ecolo-Groen Group welcomes this royal decree of special powers relating to the extension of the bridge law for complementary self-employed persons and for partially retired self-employed persons. This is a measure that we fully support. You won't be surprised. We have always supported the extension of the bridge law but also the protection of the self-employed, especially today in the current crisis situation. Like other colleagues, I wanted to know if you already had the first figures, as the measure was taken a little less than three weeks ago. With the implementation and publication, let's say it's been in effect for two weeks. Do you have any figures for supplementary self-employed persons and pensioners who would have used this new possibility? It is also an opportunity to take stock of all the independents who have appealed to the special bridge right VOCID-19, if I can call it that allows during the months of March and April to benefit from the bridge right in order to survive because that is what it is all about and to pass this difficult course. You also announced that the measure would be extended during the month of May. Can you confirm that? It would also be a good thing. We would be the first to support this provision because it is clear that the difficulties continue for a wide range of actors, in particular the TPEs, SMEs, independents, local businesses, horeca, which are in extremely difficult situations. Finally, I will still have a question a little outside the royal decree and which is quite relevant to the independents. Most of those who are closed today do not necessarily have any euro of turnover. In the Horeca, those who deliver can make some recipes, but you know like me how complicated it is. The return of the land confirms this. One of the elements on which we believe we should work is the issue of commercial rents. I know that some reflections are under way. Well, we know that some of the backs aren't here anymore. It is therefore necessary to limit money outflows as much as possible. An effort has been made in the area of bank credit. Banks carry over a series of loans. Further efforts have been made on energy subscriptions by energy suppliers. In terms of commercial rents, are things in preparation? I think this is a very important element for many businesses and members of the Horeca. Unfortunately, it is likely to lead them even more than they already are, especially in view of the deconfination that we hope for in a few weeks or months. I also wanted to ask you this question because I know that it is very important for those who are on the ground and who are affected by these measures, as independents.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u30	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, as you know, the PS has supported this measure at the broader Kern level. Nevertheless, I have a few questions, two of which join those of my colleague, Gilles Vanden Burre. I would like to be able to respond to the people who are asking for me. In concrete terms, under what conditions can the self-employed person and the active self-employed person have access to the bridge right? What interim assessment amount does it have to have paid to access this right? Like my colleague, I would like to have an assessment of these temporary measures of the crisis. How many self-employed persons have benefited at this stage from bridge law measures? What is the percentage but also the budgetary impact? Finally, this law of 23 March 2020 produced its effects for the months of March and April. By the press, it was reported that it would be extended for the month of May. I wish I knew when it would be sunk in the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u31	Minister, a lot of support, a few comments and questions! It's your word!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u32	Mr President, the Royal Decree No. 13, which is being discussed today, is part of the extension of the law of 23 March 2020, which was unanimously adopted by the Chamber on 19 March last. In this context, some questions have been asked about bridge law. The decision in question concerns the extension of the bridge right to a number of supplementary self-employed persons and pensioners. I address the PTB's elected representative. Mr De Vuyst, you must work seriously on this dossier. You're telling the truth! You voted for this text! You tell us that we should stop working completely to touch this bridge right, but that is absolutely wrong! A week off is enough. As was pointed out in the discussions, it is hoped that this right of access can be combined with regional premiums. For the month of April, a number of independents touched their second bridge right. I had a commitment from the social insurance funds to make this happen as quickly as possible. Even if it is only 1,600 euros per month, for the months of March and April, it is one billion euros. Several of you asked the question, I was able to obtain an extension of the bridge law in May on identical terms. I continue to work on tracks in relation to what will be possible in June because we know that there will remain a number of closed shops. The aim is to continue to help those who cannot return to work. This will be the fourth consecutive month. We know the difficulties involved. An error was again indicated. Starters also have access to this bridge right. We wanted it that way, those who have just begun have access to it as well. Mr President, I come back to the purpose of the order that we are analysing. The aim was to ensure that all self-employed persons with rights under the social status of self-employed persons would have a spare income in a flexible framework for each month of the COOVID-19 crisis in which they have to interrupt or reduce their professional activity. The aim was to provide the self-employed in the main occupation, but also the self-employed in the secondary profession, or Article 37 who pay statutory contributions for 2020 such as a self-employed in the main occupation. I've been asked for numbers. I cannot answer precisely today because I expect up-to-date data. However, I can say that as of April 17, 340,000 bridge applications had been filed, all in all. Indeed, I wanted pre-registration, for the tens of thousands of eligible supplementary self-employed and eligible active self-employed pensioners, to be possible already through the Caisses. I have also been asked a question as to who, among the complementary self-employed and the active self-employed, can claim this right of access. This refers to those who are affected by an interruption or closure and whose annual income amounts to EUR 6 996.89. In other words, on the basis of this income, the independents in question benefit from the bridge right. Of course, we had to leave some income. You should know that the annual income of 60% of the supplementary self-employed is less than 1,000 euros. The purpose of this replacement income is therefore not to replace income of this kind. In the context of this order, we also wanted, for these particular cases, the supplementary self-employed and the active self-employed, to provide for the possibility of cumulation of the right to bridge with an income or other allowance. Let us take the example of an employee who, because of the interruption of his activity due to force majeure, is receiving a temporary unemployment benefit of EUR 1,100. This worker will then be able to benefit from a maximum of EUR 513.10 before the interruption of his self-employed activity due to COOVID-19. If his temporary unemployment benefit is EUR 700, the benefit under the temporary crisis measures, the bridging right, will be EUR 684,85, or EUR 807,05 if there are family costs. We wanted to go further than just cover the 750,000 self-employed mainly by the bridge law. We wanted to take another step. Mr Vanden Burre, we've talked about it a lot together. We know that an independent person's average pension is 900 euros. For those who remain active, an additional effort was naturally needed. If the bridge right can be extended, as in the case of May, the same will apply to the partial bridge right which covers approximately 30,000 additional persons - supplementary self-employed and independent active pensioners. As for rents, I agree with you that this is a whole. The bridge right doesn't solve everything. That is why the government has taken action, which you have mentioned, particularly in relation to the banking agreement. As I said, I have instructed the Economic Inspectorate to investigate the problem of the refusal of a certain number - it is a minority but it is still a significant number - of banks which issue new conditions, beyond what is provided for in the banking agreement. The banks must play the game and fully respect the agreement they have made. Believe that we have a lot of returns from the field, in cases where some agencies don't play the game. And I'm telling you, it's a little rabid. This deal makes sense from the moment all banks play the game. Beyond that, there is obviously everything that has been done in terms of federal tax deferral. As you know, regional premiums have begun to be paid. You're talking about rent issues, commercial leases. I'm available to talk about this, but, you know, I'm not going to insult you, it's a regional matter. I do not know what measures have been initiated at this stage by the Regions. I think like you, they're working on it, at least I hope. This is in any case one of the difficult situations they face. At some point, we will have to address the issue of payment deadlines, Mr. Vanden Burre. Should they be shortened in situations such as those we are encountering today for the independents, as it seems to be your intention in the text you have tabled? I don't think this is the time to load the boat again, given what I saw in the NIS report. We'll talk about it again. That's another subject. Mr President, there was also Mr Kitir's question that I did not understand very well about the distinction between activity as a principal and as a complement. The conditions are the same for everyone. It is from the moment you have a break of at least seven consecutive days that you are impacted. You can then benefit from the bridge right or the partial bridge right. This also applies to the professions and the medical professions, which can continue to deal with emergencies during this week's closure. Both in relation to this Order and in relation to bridge law in general, the work of the social insurance funds will never be sufficiently commended. They operate on the ground in contact with the independents in order to guide them. This is the case for INASTI, for example, which is continuing its work. I gave all the injunctions to make the system as simple as possible. I did not want any additional administrative burdens, nor did I want to add difficulty to difficulty, blurring or braking. I'm sorry, I don't have the latest numbers yet. But I think we'll turn around 400,000 requests, as we say, with a very low non-requirement rate. I'm waiting for the numbers in the afternoon. I will keep them at your disposal for a meeting, if you wish. Mr President, I can even commit myself, in relation to the figures, to communicating them when I have it, if Mr Vanden Burre or the other members so wish. But it is around 400,000, which, for a new measure, even in this context, is a good result. I can also give, if you wish, the figures for the exemption or reduction of social contributions, the general figures for carry-overs, reductions or exemption from contributions. These are figures which are updated about every ten days and which I could make available to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u33	Minister, thank you. Colleagues, does anyone wish to reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u34	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answers. However, there is a misunderstanding. Firstly, we have, of course, supported the initiative to first of all relax the right of bridging so that many self-employed people can make use of it, even the self-employed who are reduced in turnover and suffer loss of income. However, I asked the following question. The new Royal Decree states that only self-employed persons who are forced to interrupt their activity, i.e. not the self-employed persons who continue their activities, even if their financial income falls, can rely on half the right of bridging. This is therefore particularly true for the self-employed in the secondary sector. However, I can now hear you explain that this can also be done if they are limited in their income. Even if they are hindered and suffer a loss of turnover, they can rely on this half-bridge credit. There is a lack of clarity about this. I would have liked another answer to that question. In your reply, you refer to the sub-governments. In Flanders there is also the nuisance premium. However, we have had many testimonies from people who, unfortunately, are not able to rely on the nuisance premium but on the bridging loan, or vice versa, people who are unable to make use of the nuisance premium but who are unable to make use of the bridging loan. I just want to say that although we support the measures and they are going in the right direction, many people with an independent activity, albeit as a secondary activity or as a main activity, are still falling through the loopholes of the network. I do not know whether you have organised a consultation with your colleague Minister from Flanders to see whether additional measures will also be taken to ensure that the self-employed, who, although they can make use of the bridge credit, are still in the water's hands, are particularly helped, as the chairman of the Syndicate of the Self-employed and SMEs recently stated. That is all I wanted to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answers and for the numbers. It would be interesting if you communicated them as you suggested. You come regularly to committee. In any case, we see you regularly in commission on screen! So we have an opportunity to exchange, and that's very good. These are things that we follow closely. I would like to look back on the two proposals mentioned. We are not going to do or repeat the debate here. I wanted to talk about rents and commercial leases. You're obviously right. It is a competence that lies between several levels of power. There is still a federal part but also a part specific to the Regions. In fact, I wanted to start the discussion and the reflection. The federal government could do things, but so could the regions. Your colleague, Mrs Muylle, whom I interviewed last week, replied to me in that regard. The RMG is also thinking about it, and that's normal. In any case, we are available to discuss this subject, which is not simple, and certainly not when more levels of authority are involved. On payment deadlines, this is a text by our colleagues, PS and CD&V, which we voted in the Committee on the Economy. For us, and certainly in the wake of the severe crisis we are experiencing, we must not only help the self-employed and all those who make up the economic fabric of this country and our regions, but also the people who are in great insecurity. This text also responds to a real need to help people who are in great insecurity and who are in debt. We need to find that balance and we have supported this text because for us, balance is important. In addition, the authors of the text postponed its application until next year. It's a wise decision. We will continue the debates in Parliament because they are not finished. I just wanted to explain why we also supported this text. I repeat, a series of people in society today must be helped more, and certainly in the post-COVID-19 period to which I hope we will arrive quickly. Both the disadvantaged and the self-employed are among them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-04-55-commissie-ic167x.u36	I shall conclude this debate on this numbered KB. I thank everyone for their input and I also thank the Minister for his answers.
