ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u2	Mr President, Minister, due to the lax justice policy, this country has been known worldwide as an international haven for criminals, but since this week we have also been known as an international savings bank for terrorists. EUR 200,000: that is the amount that the Belgian State has to pay to date to ten children of IS-gangsters in the Syrian camp Al-Hol. A further 5,000 euros per child is added every day. The penalty payment imposed on you by the activist judge on 11 December 2019 does not even have an upper limit. An international terrorist career is apparently the guarantee in this country of a well-stocked savings book for the children. The hard-working citizen in this country, Madam Secretary, will not be able to collect what these IS children will be able to collect from their Belgian savings books at the age of 21. You can't explain something like that to a sensible person, can you? Especially not to the many citizens who live on and around the poverty line, who cannot even give their own children EUR 1 when they become 21 years old. I read that you didn't even appeal the verdict. However, according to the Minister of Justice, this is the custom in these matters. Why didn't you, Madam Secretary? What have you done to prevent the payment of EUR 50 000 per day at the expense of the taxpayer? Are you prepared to take initiatives to revise or terminate the treaties and conventions on which the judges rely to make such crazy judgments? Finally, Madam Minister, I would have liked to know what the OCAD report is about. After all, it is striking that we should not send illegal criminals back to war zones, but that we should send our own people there for the sake of those criminals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u3	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, an activist judge in interim proceedings and two unscrupulous lawyers, following a judgment of 13 December 2019, managed to demand EUR 50,000 a day as a penalty payment, which taxpayers must pay to bring back ten children of war criminals to Belgium. Madam Prime Minister, according to your spokesman... [[Mr Dedecker's mobile phone rings]] (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u4	I'll be good, it's okay. Now let's get serious again. Madam Prime Minister, according to your spokesman, a mission has gone to Erbil to repatriate the children concerned. [[Mr Dedecker's phone rings again]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u5	Give me your phone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u6	Mr President, I am replying because my wife does not believe me to be good... Can I have a little more time now?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u7	Mr Dedecker, I am not sure that this is not an educated number. You can take back your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u8	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, according to your spokesperson, a mission has gone to Erbil to ensure that the children concerned return here. However, the Kurdish representative states that they do not know anything about it. That's the first story. The second story is that they are not allowed to return if their parents are not allowed to return. That is why my question is as follows. What's the truth? Madam Prime Minister, as Mrs Pas has already said, you have refused to appeal. Now the lawyers themselves have also appealed to ask that the parents of those children, that is, those war criminals, should also be allowed to return. Madam Prime Minister, you know it's the soft law. According to the Committee on Children's Rights, Article 3, the principle of non-refoulement, and Article 8 of the ECHR, which provides that family reunification may be permitted. So we risk seeing those war criminals end up in Belgium. Madam Prime Minister, will you appeal that decision? Finally, has there been any payment? How will be paid? How will you check that these are really children of those war criminals?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u9	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, we have just heard two eloquence predecessors who accuse your government of having watched out for unemployment after the judgment handed down by the judge. I cannot imagine that you will not be able to respond to them in such a short time. I cannot imagine you coming here saying that you waited six weeks to be fined EUR 5,000 per day per child. That means that during the two minutes I asked this question, the amount was allocated by more than EUR 70. That's quite a speed. It's been four days. We're at 200,000 euros now. I cannot imagine that you will not be here to tell us that your government has indeed taken the necessary measures to comply with the judgment on the one hand and to avoid, on the other hand, any violation of the government's policy which says that we are not bringing mothers here. For the sake of clarity, the verdict that was mentioned did not oblige us to repatriate, it obliged our country to provide the necessary consular assistance and documents. I can imagine that you have been able to comply with that judgment, because, as has been said here, you have not appealed. One might first of all wonder why you did not do that, why you missed that opportunity. In my naivety, I thought that the government did not appeal because she knew she would wash that piggy, that she would be able to live up to the verdict without the bizarre consequence that we would have to pay the 5,000 euros per child a day penalty. I am particularly interested in your reply, which will undoubtedly make our reply unnecessary, because you will be able to reassure us and say that we are not obliged or will not be obliged to pay that penalty payment because you have taken the necessary measures to avoid it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u10	Mr President, the government and myself are very sensitive to the situation of the children who are the victims of circumstances for which they are in no way responsible. That is why we have a duty to help them. I would remind you of the decision taken by the government with full authority in 2018: return support is in principle granted to children under 10 years of age as far as possible and for children over 10 years of age, the files are dealt with on a case-by-case basis, in consultation with the intelligence and security services. Since then, several judicial decisions have been taken in this file, which is followed very closely. The first decision taken by the French-speaking court in the Brussels Court of First Instance ordered the Belgian State to repatriate three FTF women and their seven children by implementing the measures which the State considered most appropriate. The Belgian State appealed against that decision, which is contrary to the position adopted by the full government. The second decision taken by the Dutch-speaking court in the interim proceedings of the court of first instance of Brussels provides for the Belgian State to provide consular assistance to ten children in the Al-Hol camp and to provide them with the necessary documents enabling them to travel to Belgium under the guidance of Syria and to enter Belgium legally. The core met again on 17 and 24 January to implement that second decision. The intention is indeed to take the necessary measures to repatriate the children. In this context, in the week of 20 January, a Belgian consul went to Erbil in Iraq, where the threat level was set at three according to the OCAD, with transit tickets for the children. It was intended that the consul would go to the Iraqi-Syrian border to meet the children and the Syrian-Kurdish authority there. The Syrian Kurds refused to go with the children to the meeting point at the border and preferred to arrange a meeting on Syrian territory. I would remind you that Parliament has decided not to authorise the movement of Belgian military personnel on Syrian territory, making it even more difficult in the present circumstances to guarantee the safety of consular personnel. If the position of the Syrian-Kurdish authority is not changed, it has been decided to continue diplomatic efforts to find a solution to this problem for the children. In addition, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has planned a visit to the region in the near future in order, inter alia, to intensify efforts in this area. We are not the only ones facing this problem. Think of the failed attempt by the Swedish authorities to repatriate children. Finally, the State appealed against the decisions of the French-speaking Court of First Instance. Moreover, the State also brought an occasional appeal against the decision of the Dutch-speaking Court of First Instance on the periodic penalty payments. They were the subject of a letter of formal notice in the context of the Dutch decision. In any case, the State will try to prove to the court that everything is being done to repatriate the children.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u11	Madam Secretary, you say you're sensitive. Well, I'm also very sensitive to the victims and children of the victims of ISIS gangsters. Those children are indeed not responsible for the actions of their parents, but neither are we. We have no obligation to bring them here. I therefore totally disagree with the initial decision already made in 2017 to automatically bring children up to ten years of age here. German state security says for a reason that these are ticking time bombs. There are often traumatized and radicalised children. Madam Secretary, I wonder where that will end. If you bring these kids here, what's gonna stop other Syrians from doing the same thing? What is going to stop other Belgian Syrians from legally forcing them to come here? Where's that gonna end? It will be at the expense of the taxpayer anyway, because it will pay for it, either financially with periodic penalty payments or with an increased security risk.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u12	Madam Secretary, I am pleased to hear you say that you have not yet paid. My big question is what will you do if you can repatriate the children? What will be your opposition to the fact that, according to the European Convention on Human Rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the parents of war criminals must follow? That is the big question and that is why we are so suspicious of repatriating these children. I'll give you a solution. I will give the solution of the Netherlands. What did they do there? The government has put the question to the court of appeal. What did that court of appeal say as a verdict? It is a decision of the government and the court has nothing to do with the repatriation of both children and war criminals from abroad. The Minister of Justice happens to be here as well. I think that we can put that question to the Court of Cassation or perhaps to the Constitutional Court, but then the carousel of pity or whatever is being set in motion will be stopped. Do this, and we will have a clear position for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u13	I am glad that until now no payment of the periodic penalty payments has been made. You're talking about an occasional appeal. It is very strange that six weeks after you decided not to appeal, you found that this was apparently not the best decision. Madam Prime Minister, your government is a government in current affairs. This means that your calendar is not overcrowded. We ask you to look after the store. We ask you to save the current affairs, and this is an outstanding issue, which threatens to lead to the payment of EUR 5,000 per child by your government's passivity. I wonder, if you are not in a position to save the current affairs in a serious way, what you are actually still doing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u14	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago you were questioned here about the Brussels teenage pimp gang that forced underage girls into prostitution. Information shows that the French-speaking parquet in Brussels was already aware of the activities of this gang in August. The police had conducted a full investigation, knew the perpetrators, had a question for arrests and searches, but that was refused by the French-speaking parish in Brussels. No investigating judge was called in either. In October, the federal police again looked at this file, because that gang of course continued its criminal activities cheerfully. Once again there was a request for a search and after a whole ping-pong game between the court, the police and people from the juvenile court this request was again refused. Only an observation and a wiretap were allowed to happen. Minister, these facts are extremely serious. The refusal of a search, while both local and federal police pointed out that there was sufficient evidence in the file, is unacceptable and constitutes a guilty omission. Are you aware of this? What are you going to do about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u15	Mr President, Mrs Dillen, last week I explained to Mrs Bury how to deal with youth gangs. You are now addressing a specific case and, in principle, I cannot answer it. I can only hope that my general answer relates to the same case. I have submitted your questions and information to the public prosecutor and to the public prosecutor in Brussels. They strongly deny that the court would not have taken appropriate action. The court states that it acted entirely in accordance with the rules governing criminal proceedings. Certain investigations, which are the result of complaints, are carried out by the public prosecutor. The public prosecutor is following these complaints very closely. As you know, certain investigations cannot be authorized by the public prosecutor. You said the parole board didn't authorize certain investigative actions. Only the investigating judge can do this in many cases. In this case, in mid-October, the prosecutor seized a court of inquiry, as there were concrete indications at that time and investigation measures were imposed, namely searches and arrests. You're saying those searches and arrests were denied by the parish. The public prosecutor does not refuse such matters, it is the investigating judge who may or may not allow them, in all independence and autonomy with regard to the public prosecutor. That's what happened in this case. I have been informed that this gang has been wound up, even though the matter has not yet been concluded. I am not allowed to tell you any further information about this case, but the further investigation is being conducted under the direction of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u16	Mr President, according to the information I have at my disposal, your answer is not entirely correct. I did not mention any names with this dossier in August, and I know, of course, that this should not go to the French-speaking parquet in Brussels. We all know that the French-speaking parquet in Brussels is running more than squarely. That is where they refused to bring in the investigating judge. Afterwards, in October, they were granted permission, not for searches, as the police told me, but for a telephone tap and an observation, which was completely pointless, since the perpetrators were known. Minister, a rule of law cannot work in this way. In this way, crime remains free to go. We should have acted in August, and we should not have let things go. In this way, street gangs here in Brussels continue to hold power. They remain in charge instead of the courts and the police. Minister, there is a need for much more vigorous action in these matters in the interests of the victims and society.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u17	Mr President, Minister, last Tuesday, the judgment of the Court of Cassation in the case known as "Ariadne" brought an end to the proceedings which were initiated in 2008 for participation in a terrorist group against 42 persons linked or belonging to the PKK. The Belgian judiciary has therefore definitively held - in any case, in this case - that the provisions of the Criminal Code relating to terrorism do not apply to the acts that have been committed by the PKK, in accordance with the exception that we introduced by Article 141bis of the Criminal Code. Clearly, the actions of the PKK are part of a non-international armed conflict, since it is between this organization and its own country, Turkey. Of course, this ruling does not mean that acts are considered lawful. They may always be prosecuted on the basis of common criminal law. But while I reaffirm the principle of the independence of the judiciary and the separation of powers, I cannot help but be concerned at the reading of this judgment. Minister, what about our current legislative framework? What is the implication of this ruling on our anti-terrorism legislation and on the development and evolution of the EU sanctions list? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u18	Mr Pivin has not entirely used up his speaking time. The Minister asked me if he could go any further than his speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u19	Mr President, Mr Pivin, the decision of the Court of Cassation puts an end to many years of discussion on the scope of a specific article of our Criminal Code. First of all, it should be recalled that the Court of Cassation was not seized of the question whether the PKK is a terrorist group in general, but of whether it is a terrorist group within the meaning of Title Iter of the Criminal Code. It's not rhetorical precision. This decision has no impact on the qualification of the PKK as a terrorist group within the meaning of other legislation, in this case EU sanctions legislation against terrorist individuals and groups. The case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union in this respect is very clear. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has made clear the Belgian position in this regard. The reason why there is no direct link between the two lies precisely in the raison d'être of article 141bis of the Criminal Code, the scope of which was to be specified by the Court of Cassation. Article 141 bis of the Criminal Code does not define the constituent elements of the terrorist offence and the terrorist group. The Court of Cassation has therefore not concluded that some of these elements are lacking with regard to the PKK. The purpose of this article is to define where to refrain from resorting to "simple" national criminal law, if I can express myself in this way, and where, on the contrary, the law of armed conflict should be used. It comes from a recital in the European Union's anti-terrorist criminal legislation. Belgium seems to be the only European State to have transposed it into a binding legal provision. It's exceptional, but it happened in 2003. This is certainly due to Belgium's commitment to promoting respect for international humanitarian law. But it must also be avoided that this harms the fight against terrorism itself. Although it cannot be concluded from the judgment of the Court of Cassation that the PKK cannot be regarded as a terrorist group in general, the scope thus specified in article 141 bis of the Criminal Code nevertheless makes it dangerous. It was not by arduousness that the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office systematically appealed the decisions of the lower courts. It is that the scope of this Article 141a has a potentially major impact on Belgium's efforts to combat terrorism. That is why my office, the FPS Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office have already had discussions in recent years to consider whether to provide a legislative response. It was necessary to await clarification of the scope of the current Article 141a, and it was still necessary to take the time to analyse its content in detail. However, I can confirm that further discussions are already planned in the very short term. The government will not hesitate to propose, even in times of current affairs, the changes that would be necessary to avoid a negative impact on Belgian national security, but also for Belgium's ability to support its allies in the fight against all forms of terrorism, whether nationalist terrorism or religious terrorism, I haveten to make that clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u20	Mr Minister, thank you for the important clarifications you have given us, which illustrate in particular the exceptional nature of this transposition at European level. I believe that we must maintain a fully determined attitude in this area. In this connection, I have taken note of the position reaffirmed by the Foreign Minister, Mr Goffin, that the PKK is indeed a terrorist organisation and that Belgium will continue to support its retention on the European list of terrorist organisations, as has been the case for many years. This is the position defended by the MR.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u21	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in 2018, we adopted a draft law that makes it possible to put a fingerprint on the electronic identity card. That is now being rolled out, for the first time in Lokeren. The Vias report that we were able to look at today confirms that this is a good decision. Nine out of ten people have no problem with fingerprints. There are other technological issues available today to help the police and security services gather intelligence and make their jobs easier. It's about handprint and facial recognition and speech technology. The report also shows that there is less support for this. Mr Minister, this is a matter of privacy and, on the other hand, of technology and innovation. I have the impression that they are still far apart, that one doesn't really dare or want to talk to the other, to look for solutions. Are there initiatives already in place today to bring these two worlds together, namely innovation and privacy? If so, what are the results? If not, will you, together with your colleague De Backer, consider doing so? Where could such a pilot project be organised in the short term, after such consultation? Do you have any proposals on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u22	Mr President, I would like to reiterate my position on the issue. As early as 26 September, I replied to a question by Mr Demon on facial recognition. I am pleased to read in the results of the Vias study, to which you referred, that there is a great consensus and a very strong public support for access checks with biometric techniques, such as fingerprints, facial recognition, irish recognition, handprint recognition or speech recognition. According to a newspaper title, an overwhelming majority supports the approach that we have recently made possible. I am also pleased that the citizens' police services have been given a mandate to store and process these data in confidence. I underlined at the start of the fingerprint pilot project in Lokeren that the new biometric data technology is particularly important for our security services, first and foremost when it comes to the fight against terrorism and organised crime, and to the protection and enforcement of public order, which is a central task of the public authorities. The introduction and registration of fingerprints on electronic identity cards primarily protects our citizens from identity fraud. That is the objective, which fully supports public opinion. I do not know whether the pilot project on automatic facial recognition at Zaventem airport will allow any further steps to be taken by the federal police. However, to respond to your question, I would like to evaluate the pilot project in the context of the legal anchoring of biometric techniques after we have introduced the electronic identity card in 25 cities and municipalities. At least I'm a supporter of the whole project.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your comments. I am pleased to hear that we are in favour of technology providing tools to make our society safe. But privacy and security must always go hand in hand. It's not an or-or story, it's an en-and-story. Technology, I believe, will provide more security for the people. We have just talked about the Syrian warriors. There's gonna be some coming back. Perhaps we should sit together with the police and the OCAD to carry out such a pilot project in certain places, when the legislation is in place, so that we can intercept such people on our territory using facial recognition or other biometric techniques.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u24	Mr President, Minister, the shortage of nurses is an important issue. Our renowned Knowledge Centre has published a new report on nursing in our hospitals. The same objective conclusion always emerges: there are too few nurses. The nurses are running out of time and hands. The workload is too high, despite their unwieldy commitment, for which I would like to pay particular tribute to the nurses. They need to take care of too many patients at the same time. This has negative consequences for the patient, and that is unacceptable for sp.a. The patient doesn't get the care he or she deserves. Medication cannot be given in time, wounds cannot be cared for in time, there is no talk about care; in short, there can be too little care. Another study has already shown that the number of unexpected deaths in Belgium is too high due to too few nurses. There are also bad consequences for the nurses, because they cannot give the warm care they want to give. Many nurses are facing burnout, job satisfaction is low. All these things are not good for the attractiveness of the nurse's profession. The solution is clear and is confirmed by the Knowledge Centre. Extra hands on the bed are needed. 1.627 nurses are needed, just to ensure safe care, which should be the minimum minimorum. Parliament has already done some of the work; I was involved in it myself. The Health Care Staff Fund was approved in the Chamber, which made some of the funds available, although not yet enough. Madam Minister, this morning I almost fell off my chair when I read that you said in your response to the emergency call to nurses that no extra nurses are needed, but that a reform of the duties of the nurses should be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u25	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u26	I fell off my chair because you kept quiet about extra recruits from nurses. Madam Secretary, do you really think that there are no more nurses, no more hands on the bed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u27	Minister, the KCE is now publishing a ten-year study, with the same criteria, on the working conditions of hospital nurses. Five thousand nurses from 84 hospitals participated. The conclusions of the study are very interesting. Compared to 2009, nurses are better trained: more than six in ten now have a bachelor's degree. They feel better supported and say that their relationships with doctors have improved. The number of patients under the care of a nurse decreased from 11 in 2009 to 9.4. There is also considerable variability between hospitals and services ( 6.1 to 12.7 patients), including surgery and geriatrics. These improvements are noteworthy, but it is clear that this remains insufficient. Minister, the scope of the nursing profession is itself being called into question when we have all recently committed ourselves to the creation of the White Blouse Fund and the hospital networks are in the process of being set up. What measures can you take to improve the situation? How can we draw inspiration from hospitals that already meet the international standard? As far as the White Blouse Fund is concerned, can you tell me what concrete measures have already been taken? Are they likely to improve the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u28	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have indeed been able to read this morning that there are too few nurses per patient. The mean is one nurse per 9.4 patients. That's an improvement compared to 10 years ago, when that number was still at 11. International standard is 8 patients per nurse. What strikes me much more, however, are the large differences between hospitals. There are hospitals where 1 nurse is responsible for the care of 6 patients. In extreme cases, it even affects up to 12.7 patients. Last week we had a discussion here about the materialities and the possible closure of certain materials where there are too few births. I wonder if one has something to do with the other. Perhaps certain hospitals will continue to maintain activities where they need to employ too many care staff for too few patients. The low number of nurses also causes a very high workload on the staff. People are falling out with a burnout. Others leave the profession. Job satisfaction in the sector is also declining. In addition, there is also an influence on the necessary care. Last year it appeared that part of the deaths in hospitals were due to a shortage of nurses. Madam Secretary, how do you see the future implementation of the nurse's profession? What measures will you take to reduce the number of patients per nurse in hospitals with too many patients per nurse? Can the closure of certain departments, materials or other sectors contribute to a solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u29	Mrs. De Block, the patients in our hospitals are in danger. That is the alarming finding in the study of the Knowledge Centre. In order to remove our hospitals from the danger zone, we urgently need to recruit 1,629 additional nurses. The study published this morning includes questions asked of nurses. It appears that one in three – thus, 30% – is confronted with a state of emotional exhaustion. They add that they do not have time to perform essential tasks such as changing the position patient to avoid the appearance of escarres. I myself noticed, when I had a patient hospitalized with an escarre that had formed three weeks earlier and had, in the meantime, worsened. The PTB has long seen the reality in hospitals. It was under pressure from the actions of the white coats that Parliament voted in favour of a fund dedicated to them. This measure can be a first solution. Mrs De Block, the reaction you expressed this morning about that study was not very enthusiastic, while two weeks ago, when you heard that you could close matrimony, you were enthusiastic about the study and spoke of an opportunity. If it is said today that money is needed to recruit extra nursing staff, then you say that money is not really a solution. I therefore wonder whether a study is only interesting for you if you can save additional money. Mrs De Block, are you going to take the findings of this study seriously? Are you going out of the logic of savings in the hospital sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u30	Madam Secretary, 70% of nurses have no time to be friendly, no time to comfort patients, no time to chat. A study by the KCE today confirms what we have known for a long time: there are not enough nurses in the hospital departments of surgery, internal medicine and especially geriatrics to be able to take care of patients safely. This is particularly a problem in the geriatrics department. It is unacceptable in this society that we leave older, vulnerable people to their fate. Nurses feel this, too. They are at their limit, both physically and mentally. That's what the KCE study shows. One in three is likely to burn out. Those are dramatic figures. We want to do something about that. You too want to do something about this. You are right when you say that money alone will not be enough. We need a complete commemoration of the nurse's profession in order to get more hands around the bed, in order to meet the challenges of ageing and innovation in medicine. That is what we need today! That's why I have the following questions for you today. In what way will we make the profession of nurse attractive? In what way will nurses be motivated to take care of vulnerable elderly patients? Finally, when will multidisciplinary teams become the norm to get more hands around the bed? It is unacceptable, however, that I understand their criticism of the fact that highly educated nurses are constantly busy helping people to go to the bathroom or helping people from the seat to the bed. We need diversity. We need a specialist, a bachelor, a care professional and an HBO5. How are we going to deal with this now?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u31	Mr President, thank you and your services for correcting the party that was assigned to me. It made me a haughty heart, but everything came in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u32	Stay on your benches!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u33	Minister, the weeks follow each other and our plenary sessions are similar. Each time, a KCE report has the opportunity to highlight a problem in the health care sector. If these problems are addressed, the answers to them, on the other hand, often leave us on our hunger. We have long known that there is a problem at the nursing level not only in the hospital sector but also in the home. Let us not lose sight of this! Strong responses from the government are also long overdue, and it is not without questioning that nurses are completely exhausted in the field. To assume, in our hospitals, 20% additional workload that the international safety standard has a direct impact in terms of mortality. In addition, 40% of the 5,000 members interviewed – a very significant number of nurses – admit that they were unable to monitor the patient during their last benefits, 50% say they are unable to inform him correctly and almost 70% of the staff admit that they are not even taking – do not have – the time to simply, Madam Minister, talk to the patient. Minister, in view of this, the answer has been even more challenging and disappointing. You say: "I see that in some hospitals they are doing well. Those who have difficulties should therefore be inspired by it." It's easy. It's short and it's even a little cowardly. I find that under the circumstances, even though the KCE says that 1,600 nurses' commitments must be made in an emergency, another response is expected from this government and its minister. I hope that we will have it just now, if we have not been able to read it this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u34	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, nurses are again at the heart of the news, despite their will. The Federal Centre for the Expertise of Health Care makes a terrible observation, without surprise, which has already been taken up at length by my colleagues. So I'm not going to detail it any more. Minister, beyond all these difficulties faced by white coats at present, it is patients who are at risk because there are not enough nurses at their bedside. Essential aids and supports are not available. Patients no longer receive some important care for their well-being. Citizens no longer receive medication in time and time. They are no longer listened to or comforted, whether when they need it during their stay, but also when they leave. Madam Minister, we need more resources, we keep hammering it, to ensure the safety of patients. Around €400 million over five years to hire an additional 5,500 nurses. I'm not inventing anything, it's the KCE that says it. Today, we are not talking about savings, closures, efficiency, performance; we are talking about services, respect for medical personnel and patients. Minister, do you feel, as in the maternity study 15 days ago, that it is necessary to follow these recommendations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the nurses who work in healthcare today and express my appreciation for them, because they do have a difficult task. The nurses, together with the medical and paramedical team, manage to provide quality care with fewer nurses per patient than on average in Europe. The study of 10 years ago showed that there was 1 nurse per 11 patients. We have already taken a number of measures and now there is an average of 1 nurse per 9 patients. We must continue this exercise and take further action. It is therefore essential to continue to invest, not only in the number of nurses, but also in the attractiveness of the profession, not only financially, but also organizationally and in terms of content. We must draw our young people to these studies by highlighting the attractiveness of the profession. I also consider this study of the Knowledge Centre to be a very upholstered study of very good quality, but I see that opinions differ on this subject, unlike the previous study. What does the Knowledge Center say? It's an en-en-story. We must invest and reform. We need to do two things: invest and reform. I'm insisting on the "and." Indeed, it is not only about investing, but also about simultaneously reforming. As far as the reform of hospitals is concerned, the first crucial step towards the optimalisation of the hospital landscape has been achieved through legislation on locoregional hospital networks. This will allow hospitals to have the necessary levers to reorganize care. Another study by the KCE on the materials was asked many questions here, including last week. We note that empty beds have a lot of capacity, which may be needed in other services. Then it's not just about the nurses, it's also about the midwifery. The federal government alone will not succeed. This requires close collaboration and interaction with the federated entities. This may take the form, for example, of adapting the standards for the number of nurses per bed, as well as the recognition of hospital networks. With these reforms, we must also try to avoid unnecessary interventions. After all, we are champions in cataract surgery, hip prosthetics, you name it. But when nurses are used for interventions that are in fact unnecessary, we are not doing so efficiently. The profession of nurse must be fundamentally commemorated, in relation to other care professions which are also evolving. It is no longer possible, as the study shows, that 82% of nurses remain unsatisfied in carrying around meals. Other people can be called in for that. A redeployment and delegation of tasks is called for. That will also make the profession more attractive. Investment is indeed needed. For this, I refer to the initiative recently taken in the Chamber for the blouses blanches fund, but we also need to deal with the funds wisely. As I said, Mr Bertels, we are not solving the problems by simply giving more resources. Reforming and investing are both necessary. Simply pumping money into a sector is like lubricating oil on a chain whose links are not properly arranged. We must avoid that. The report explicitly states: "The positive effect of a lower number of patients per nurse is eliminated if the working environment of the nurse is poor." This causes burnouts and overloads, among other things. The focus will first have to be on services with currently unsafe ratios. To this end, the Länder must be consulted. When investing resources, we must make sure that the supply of care is evolving in the right direction. This has already happened in mental health care. So it is possible. There are services with 6 patients per nurse, but there are also services where 1 nurse has to take care of 12 patients. I agree that this is a dangerous situation. One of the main challenges in care is to find sufficiently committed young people. Now more people leave the profession for retirement or burn-out or because they don't like it anymore than new people are pouring in. That's a working point. Let's motivate young people to opt for a committed profession. In addition, the right tasks must be carried out by the right caregivers, as Mrs Van Hoof said. We will all have to work on this in a positive and constructive way. Let us above all form a new government that can provide the much-needed money for this. The conclusion is therefore: reform and invest. Thank you, Mr Bertels, but please talk about nurses in future. You always talked about nurses, but we need a gender-neutral term.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u36	Madam Secretary, the people have heard me correctly, you must not be afraid. I am glad that you say that it is and/or enrollment, and job discharge of the nursing profession, and funding of hospital networks. Not or/or, as we were able to read from you this morning in the media. That is a very clear message from the workplace. More hands on the bed are needed! Madam Secretary, this doesn't cost billions. It's a profit for the patients and the nurses that's worth billions. Don't forget, Madam Secretary, that the perception in the nurses is reversed, that it's gotten worse. The patient ratio may have improved, but the perception is it's gotten worse. That's lethal. Finally, Madam Secretary, you are Minister in current affairs. You're not the Minister of Blocking Affairs. Money has been provided through the Health Care Staff Fund. Carry out that policy, make sure there's more hands on the bed. If you do not want to do it, Madam Minister, then I call on Members in Parliament to roll up the sleeves and then Parliament will do it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answers. In the name of the quality that we unanimously wish for all, it is necessary to continue efforts by activating the "white blues" measure. To make the hospital profession attractive, it is more than urgent to work on its actual tasks, its professional environment and the distribution of missions. It is clear that it is not all about funding – and the MR is fully aware of it. Therefore, my group and I want the necessary guidance and decisions to be taken for the benefit of internal medicine, surgery, geriatrics and paediatric services. To this end, we are at your disposal to work with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u38	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. I agree with you that only additional resources and extra money will not be enough to solve the shortage of nurses. We all know that nurses are too short, but we all know that additional nurses are not available. So we need to think about how to make the profession more attractive. This will also increase the inflow and reduce the outflow. Moreover, as you rightly point out, we need to check whether hospitals are using the funds properly. This also requires political courage. I hope that the hospital networks will fully cooperate in this. If Parliament, the new government, which hopefully will be there soon, and the hospital networks work constructively together, then we will indeed get those extra hands on the bed, I am convinced of that. That's for the benefit of the patients and will improve the nurses' job.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u39	Mrs De Block, I note that, compared to this morning, you seem to have changed your mind a little. You have pointed out that there is a need to invest in a reform. So I agree with that first point. But when I have listened carefully to you, you indicate that you will still close the maternities and that you will continue to change the hospital sector through mergers and the closure of departments. What is more, you congratulate yourself and express your desire to continue in the same direction. However, that is not the reality on the ground. After all, what has happened in recent years? The patients need to get home faster and faster. The nurses are facing more and more acute pathologies. The workload has gone up tremendously. That is the reality. Madam Minister, if we really want to make a difference, if we want nurses to... Madame De Block, you're not listening to me!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u40	I'm listening!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u41	If you're not interested, don't hesitate to say it! To get back to the subject we are dealing with, if we really want to change the situation, we have to stop the race for profitability so that nurses can do the work they have studied for.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u42	Madam Secretary, I have heard you say: investing and reforming. This reform work was launched during the previous government. We have nurses specialists; we have healthcare professionals; we have hospital networks. That work is only in the starting blocks. There's an urgent need for everyone to come out of the trenches. This is also about politics, hospitals or the nurses' council. We can jointly consider how we can better organise the profession of nurse, so that there can be more hands around the bed. That is the challenge we face today. We have to work on that, hopefully in a good next government. Everyone who does gets our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u43	Minister, thank you for your answers. You stressed the need for investment and reform. But you have used this sentence above all to justify its second part: the need to reform. Our role is to remind you of the first part of the sentence: the need to invest and to provide resources, especially for the hundreds of recruitments that are essential to respond to the emergency. You also mentioned the issue of the attractiveness of the trade – it is real – and the reorganization. We are in favour of being able to help you. It's been years since the CDH, through Catherine Fonck's voice or mine – when I was Walloon Minister of Health – challenged you to work on a better division of labour across the health care chain. You say today that this is part of the answer. You have been explaining this to us for years and we would have liked it to be implemented. Let us be careful that this will be the case in the near future. You will be able to count on the support of the CDH to move forward in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u44	Madam Minister, you have heard the protest on the street. Did you listen to her until the end? You heard the experts at the hearings on the white blouses fund. Have you listened to it all the way? We have heard the call of these men and women in distress, who are no longer able to take care of their patients. We have voted for the White Blouse Fund, which gives you the means to act and to go further, and we remain on the front lines to ensure that these means are properly unlocked and used. Minister, do you realize how hard their work is? I'll tell you again, we have to hire staff. It is necessary to allocate the means to better train, support, help on a daily basis and to give these men and women the urge to commit themselves for the good of all. I hope that you will be the driving force behind this consultation tomorrow. Finally, since you like the numbers, I ask you to keep this one: 36% of nurses risk burn-out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u45	Mr President, Madam Minister, for the past 75 years, social security has ensured solidarity, and it remains more relevant than ever. Yet, some are constantly attacking him, wanting to weaken him, judging him as a completely outdated charge. Two days ago, almost 20,000 people gathered together. They were there to protect social security. Loss of employment, sickness, pension: our social security allows the citizen to fight poverty and to deal with life-long events. Since its inception in 1944, workers have decided to leave part of their wages in a common fund. This is therefore a deferred salary. Today, social security, together with public services, is the primary purchasing power of citizens. Social security suffers from a deficit due to poor policy choices. In recent years, significant reductions in employer contributions, one of the main sources of funding, have been granted. To compensate for these losses, alternative financing through VAT and excise duties has been developed. These are unfair taxes, which are largely paid by workers. Social protection is largely financed by contributions from workers' incomes, which account for only 50 per cent of total income. Minister, my questions are as follows. What are the funding avenues you are considering to allow social security to continue? Are you committed to sustaining the State's allocation to balance social security? Finally, in order to broaden the collection base, do you intend to contribute capital income? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u46	Madam Minister, they were 20 000 on the street on Tuesday to say one very simple thing: social security must be protected. Today, it's our turn to do our part. At our level, as parliamentarians, we must also work to preserve this tool. We've already started this work, minister. As you may know, we have held hearings to discuss together the financing of this social security. Experts and researchers came to say that revenues could be reviewed and that expenditures were relatively controlled. Every day, in each family, at least one person benefits from this social security system: a pensioner, a sick person, an accident, a woman facing maternity. It is every day a family that is reassured because this system exists. He's precious. We must preserve it. It is essential today! Minister, the message is relatively simple. The question is equally so. What reassuring message can you send to the people to preserve this fabulous solidarity tool that we all benefit from on a daily basis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u47	Madam Minister, I was also present at last Tuesday's demonstration of strong social security. More than twenty thousand people signed up: working people from Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels stood up for strong federal social security. I have spoken with people from poverty groups, with people from the trade unions, with people from the sickness funds, and they only had one clear and strong signal for you, Madam Minister, and for all Members of Parliament: get security back in social security. I have also heard distressing anecdotes from people whose parents are no longer able to pay their retirement bills, from people who pay blue for medicines, from people with disability benefits below the poverty line. How is that possible, Madam Secretary, in 2020, in our country? We have had a lot of debates over the last parliamentary term on expenditure, which was excessive and which we had to keep under control. We had to save money. That record has been turned grey, Madam Secretary. We need to focus on the income of social security, because that is where the big problem lies. The gap that has been struck will rise to EUR 6.4 billion in 2024. Those are actually social contributions that we have lost. In other words, we will be collectively impoverished: we have lost the deferred pay because of your policy, Madam Secretary. However, there is enough wealth in our country. There are plenty of slopes offered to you about other sources on the basis of which we can finance social security in a just and fair way. Think, for example, of the slope of the property tax. That was also an important demand at the demonstration last Tuesday. There is also an academic consensus growing around it. I therefore have a very clear and brief question, Madam Minister. Will you take into account the signal given last Tuesday and what will you do to prevent us from running into a deficit of EUR 6.4 billion in 2024?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u48	Mr President, it is a good thing that much attention is paid to the 75th anniversary of our social security. As I said during the celebration in the Chamber, it is an old lady who must remain hübsch and modern. Our social system is indeed very valuable, but thinking about how to safeguard it is a very difficult exercise. I have already launched ideas about this myself, for example my cappuccino model. You can still find that. I call on everyone to think constructively about this. I respect and appreciate the efforts of the unions to put this theme forward. I think, however, that it is up to them to judge whether a demonstration, which is normally a last resort, is really timely in this case. What will be the solution, according to the police, or even 20,000, in your opinion, to call out on the street? I have been working for more than 20 years in Parliament on good social protection. Everyone has their way of working. I appreciate your way, but I think you should appreciate my way of working. I therefore invite you to conduct a debate on the facts. There is evidence that the social security deficit was not caused by the tax shift. The figures show this very clearly, despite what some people persist in claiming. The reduction in contributions was offset by alternative financing, the calculation of which was carried out independently by the Planning Office. Hundreds of thousands of jobs have been created by this government, mainly in the private sector. These are quality jobs. This is also reflected in the ONSS figures, although, once again, some still claim the opposite. The number of citizens contributing to social security has never been greater. It is clearly expected that contributions will continue to increase over the next few years. What's the situation? Expenditure is rising even faster than revenue. This is, of course, also due to the ageing population, which has a major impact on social security. It is a blessing that we live longer, but that also means, among other things, that we are retired longer and need more interventions in order to live longer. Whoever's older needs more care. Expenditure on pensions is also rising very sharply. That's all good, but there's got to be money for that. A working group on the Social Security Management Committee is examining the financing of social security. The Planbureau was also asked to update its previous calculations once again. Once the conclusions of that working party have been reached, we can work with them here in the Chamber, if there is no government yet. I would advise you to be very attentive to this. It would, of course, be best for a government with full authority to work on this. I agree with that. I have always committed myself to this, in any position, and I will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u49	Minister, allow me to ask you to have a little more respect for the workers who are demonstrating on the street because they are worried. I would also like to tell you that a series of remunerations are now being set up which do not contribute to the financing of social security. That is an issue that needs to be addressed. There is also the fact that a whole series of incomes do not contribute to social security. While wages fall by 1 per cent in GDP each year and dividends to shareholders increase by 1 per cent each year, there is a need to consider the means of financing social security. If there is no political will to ensure that the necessary resources are provided for social security, there will inevitably be difficulties in financing. Minister, you have not answered the question of the state's commitment to ensure the sustainability of the balance of social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answers. We will not enter into a war of numbers or talk again about tax shift, whereas, during these hearings, not a social partner, not a researcher, not an expert has recognized the added value of this tax shift. We're not coming back now. On the other hand, I mean, you're talking about the importance of compensation. That's very interesting. I think that this should be kept in mind, because not only companies but also workers agree on these elements of the solution. Balancing, alternative financing and reorganisation of extra-legal benefits are the keys to work on which we must start. The social partners agree with these ideas. Finally, I would like to point out that this tool is a stabilizer for our economy and that it is important to consider it as such for a strong and sustainable federal social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u51	Madam Secretary, I almost fell off my chair, because you have just spelled out 20 000 people who stand up for strong social protection. How dare you? There has been no government with full authority for a year and the social security deficit is running out. In 2017, you were the architect of the law, which means that there is no longer any provision for a dotation of balance and the lack of social security. And you claim here that you have worked to improve social protection! The tax shift turns out to have left a tax well. The National Bank of Belgium has confirmed that no or very little sustainable employment has been created after the tax shift. The jobs that were created were very expensive; the truth hurts. The profits, on the other hand, have increased, and the shareholders have improved. We therefore need to combat tax fraud and capital tax. We will remind you of this on 1 March with our next mobilisation, De Grote Colère, so that the social signal given by the electorate on 26 May 2019 is respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u52	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the new coronavirus has surfaced and broken out about a month ago in the Chinese city of Wuhan. In the meantime, infections have been identified in several cities, as in other countries. Wuhan, the epicenter, and some cities around it have been in lockdown for a while. About fifteen countrymen are there. They will probably return soon and we understand that this may take some time because there are also agreements to be made with other countries and with the Chinese authorities. What we believe to be missing in this whole story is a clear communication. It is not clear whether Belgium will place the people who return in isolation. Is this isolation happening in our country or abroad? We do not hear anything about this either, while other countries are communicating about it. The Dutch and French authorities have reported that those who are infected are not allowed to take part in the French flight that is to be picked up by European citizens. What does Belgium do? We don't hear anything about this. Are we gonna pick them up? And what about the people who spontaneously returned here before the lockdown? Are they being tracked down? Do they have to sign up? There is no mention of this either, whereas other countries do. Minister Goffin referred to you in the media for organising a possible quarantine. When I asked you in committee about coordination between Health and Foreign Affairs, you mentioned that you have his telephone number, but otherwise you do not give the impression that there is constant consultation and coordination on the possible outbreak. Of course, we must not cause panic and we must be wary of alarming reports. We also have excellent scientists, caregivers and institutions, but no communication or lack of communication creates panic. I therefore have the following questions for you, Madam Secretary. Is there a plan that can be rolled out immediately? How will the public be informed about the measures taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u53	Mr. President, Minister, the epidemic of coronavirus continues to spread. Yesterday, China had its worst day in terms of mortality, with 38 deaths. Today, 17 countries around the world are affected by this epidemic, with 8,000 cases recorded. Only Africa is still spared. The response to this epidemic is sometimes a bit chaotic and disorderly. The World Health Organization has just called for strong international action. In Europe, for example, some countries make recommendations to their airlines. This is the case with Germany and Great Britain, which have asked their companies to suspend their flights, which they have done. On the other hand, our country has not made the same recommendations. Hainan, for example, continues to operate flights to Shenzhen or Beijing with approximately 1,000 passengers per day. By visiting his website, I was even surprised to see that this company is currently making promotions. We can therefore make a round trip Shenzhen, Beijing or Chongqing for less than 450 euros, which is quite surprising, given the current context. Minister, how are we going to respond to the WHO call? How will we better coordinate the response at European level? What recommendations do you make with respect to airlines? What recommendations do you make for passengers? Indeed, it was found that on some flights the temperature of Belgians was controlled seven times. How will we improve the coordination of measures taken to stem this pandemic, without panic, but in a clear and pedagogical way?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u54	Thank you for your questions, Mrs Gijbels and Mr Dallemagne. I did say in committee that we have each other's phone numbers to discuss. Our people work closely together. There is indeed a plan in place. Our people are still in a coordinating meeting at the moment; if all the details are known, then we will communicate that too. We follow this situation every day, with all our services, day and night. Our procedures have already proved their worth, because we have already had more than ten suspicious cases. That's where we test our procedures. They're good. Every time we had a negative result, so those people weren't infected. However, there is a real chance that a positive case will be identified sooner or later. That's not drama. We are perfectly capable of receiving a possible infected person with the coronovirus with our specialized services. We also have a team of scientific and medical experts ready to follow this up properly, even if the virus would undergo a mutation. Again, it's a virus. He does less harm than our classic annual flu that will peak at the end of February, early March. I understand the concern, but at the moment there is no reason at all for that. Besides, we know the flu is coming, like every year. It is for this reason that it is important to direct clear communication to doctors, hospitals, but also to citizens – as we have done. Our administrations are working day and night to that end. We have widely distributed our frequently asked questions (FAQs). It answers every question. There is a permanence to answer the citizens' questions. I understand the reporters are on the hunt for the first patient. They're waiting at airports and in hospitals to take a picture of it. However, the press also has a social responsibility and must first and foremost help to inform our citizens correctly and reassuringly. With regard to precautionary measures at airports, Mr Dallemagne, we have the expertise of the epidemic of Ebola virus disease, which was much more serious and dangerous. At the moment, passengers at our airports are not subject to systematic health surveillance because the World Health Organisation does not recommend it for Europe. Our airports do not have direct flights to Wuhan. And the other travelers have already been tested because there is health surveillance in China. The travel advice of the FPS Foreign Affairs Office is also kept up-to-date and adapted, our travel clinics have been informed. We have specialized labs and services and another backup lab at Sciensano. Our country is really well prepared if a case were to arise. We follow closely the recommendations of the WHO and are fully in line with those recommendations. For the rest, we will repatriate our citizens if they so wish, and we will take good care of them. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u55	Mr President, Minister, I would like to believe that there is no problem and that we are ready. As I said before, we do have good labs, good scientists and good doctors, but that our crisis communication and approach is somewhat lacking, I did not invent that myself. This was recently confirmed by the WHO review. Several countries were vetted to see if they were able to respond well in the event of a pandemic or epidemic and our country did not score very well on that screening. Above all, we scored weak in terms of our ability to react. We got a zero for emergency planning and a zero for risk communication. There would be no roadmap that could be rolled out immediately in the event of a new epidemic or pandemic. In our neighbour Holland there is. I think there's urgent work to be done. I hear a plan of action is being worked on, but that should have been there a long time ago, with a roadmap, which includes good communication. Besides, it won't be the last time we need it. Diseases travel around the world very quickly today. We absolutely need more than the number of the Foreign Minister to be well prepared. Work on a sound, comprehensive emergency plan and ensure coordinated communication. Then the press doesn't have to fish for news.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u56	Minister, I share the view that our country is responding appropriately to this epidemic. What is missing today is genuine European coordination. Citizens do not understand why from London or Berlin you can no longer take off to Beijing or Shenzhen, but that here in Brussels there are promotions for flights to these destinations. I ask you to demand that there be coordination at European level, so that we take the same measures everywhere. The European Union must assert itself on this important issue. WHO called for all of us to work together on the response to this pandemic. It is essential that Belgium take its part, in particular in research on prevention, vaccine, measures to be taken and also in the control of the pandemic. I'm counting on you for both of these.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u57	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, over a hundred thousand and sixty-five people in our country receive an income guarantee for the elderly. This is an allowance of a few hundred euros, often on top of a small legal pension to pay the rent, the groceries and the too high energy bill. For that group of seniors, it's about getting the end of the month or not. It is true that controls must be carried out, but the new control procedure is excessive. From now on, the control is done by postmen. If you are not home three times, you have to report after five days. One night abroad, one night with the grandchildren to Cadzand or Bray Dunes must be reported. If you forget that, you'll be suspended for a month. If you are over 80 years old, you will be checked in future. Colleagues, we already had a whereabouts system for top athletes, we now also have one for vulnerable seniors. That is pure bullying on the hood of the most vulnerable in our society, and that must stop, Minister. If we were to stalk the fraudsters, those who avoid taxes and the multinationals in our country who hardly pay taxes, as we do with the poorest pensioners in our country, the budget deficit would have been solved long ago. Now there is also the destructive advice of the privacy committee. The postmen must not ask for the identity card of the persons concerned. In the meantime, more than 40 poverty organisations, trade unions, elderly associations and all OCMWs in our country have also called the alarm. My questions to you are simple. Are you willing to stop being pure bullying? Are you prepared to come up with a more humane procedure with Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u58	Mr. Secretary, if you were helping for years in the family business and, as a result, didn't have enough pension, you'd get an income guarantee. In July, you decided that the right holders should notify your administration as soon as they go abroad for one day and ordered Bpost to check it. Since then, many elderly people with an income guarantee benefit have been afraid to get out here in Belgium as well. They're afraid to go to the market, because they might miss the mailman. They're afraid to visit the family because they might miss the mailman. Instead of a quiet old age, you actually force them into some kind of anklet. Mr. Secretary, what have these people done to you to get such a house arrest? More even, if they come home after a hospitalization, maybe there's no money left in their account because their income guarantee benefit was taken away because they missed the postman when they were in the hospital. It sometimes takes weeks or months for them to receive the benefit, to which they are entitled, from the Pension Service. Minister, if not only poverty organisations but also the privacy committee say that the controls are illegal and even unconstitutional, then I think it is right to ask for that measure to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u59	Mr Minister, since 1 July, you have had postmen checking whether recipients of an income guarantee for the elderly are present in the country. Those checks should be carried out because it is not a pension but a welfare allowance. Being necessary is one of the conditions for receiving that income guarantee. Another condition is the stay in our country, which does not necessarily mean that people are stuck at home. Beneficiaries who leave the country will have to report that. Checks shall be carried out on them. In October, together with colleagues, I already raised questions and concerns about these controls, as they are misunderstood. The righteous think they can't leave their home anymore, because they miss the mailman otherwise. This leads to social isolation. Yesterday, the Data Protection Authority, also known as the Privacy Committee, recommended that the checks can only be carried out by Pension Service officials or by social inspectors. Nowhere, for example in any royal decree, does it say that that power was delegated to the postal services. The privacy committee therefore wonders whether checks by postmen are lawful. If those checks are already delegated, the privacy committee states, then there should be a hierarchical check from the Pension Service on the postmen anyway. But if so, she asks. At the time of the checks, the postman must check whether the person standing in front of him who receives an income guarantee for the elderly is actually the beneficiary. To that end, the postman requests the identity card. According to the privacy committee, this is not allowed, as there is no legal provision for the postman to be allowed to request the identity card for those checks. A postman may request the identity card for the delivery of packages and registered consignments, but not for those checks. Minister, my question corresponds to that of the privacy committee. Would you like, together with the Pension Service and Bpost, to evaluate and adjust the control procedure? Will you amend the legislation on this matter? That seems to me to be the minimum that should be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u60	Minister, "GRAPA, Minister Bacquelaine persists and signs". During the last legislature, your previous ten-year reform was passed by the Constitutional Court. If you don't want to do that, you're putting back the cover with this new beneficiary control procedure. You are pursuing the policy of the previous government, as if nothing had happened, as if there had been no elections, as if the population had supported this policy of tracking the beneficiaries. Of course, you do not have a parliamentary majority to support this policy. In the Committee on Social Affairs, you replied that, in the end, there was no change in the procedure, except for the intervention of teachers and factors, and that the aim was to help pensioners so that they did not have to move. The formula is well known: hell is paved with good intentions. By telling us that nothing had changed in the procedure, you deceived us. In fact, you have drastically reduced response times from 21 days to 5 days. This is a fundamental change. And it would be up to the beneficiaries to prove that they are in the conditions. On behalf of the Socialist Group, I have sought the opinion of the Data Protection Authority. I welcome it because it is unappealable and unsettling your new procedure all over the line. This new procedure is contrary to the fundamental right to privacy and is therefore illegal. Minister, what will be your response to this opinion from the Data Protection Authority? Will you put an end to this disproportionate, unjust and illegal procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have taken note of the opinion delivered by the Data Protection Authority on 17 January on the new procedure for checking the residence condition linked to the granting of GRAPA. The opinion indicates that it is up to the Federal Pension Service and Bpost to analyse the processing of the personal data carried out in the context of the verification of the effective residence of the IGO beneficiaries in the light of existing regulations. I provided the advice for analysis to the Federal Pension Service so that, in consultation with bpost and my fellow minister responsible for bpost, a follow-up could be given to the comments made by the Data Protection Authority. I will not fail to deliver the results of that analysis to Parliament. Indeed, the League for Human Rights and various poverty groups have sent me a letter, co-signed by various organisations, which formulates a number of criticisms of the new procedure. I have informed the League that I am prepared to receive the representatives of the signatories of this letter in order to listen to their criticisms and answer them. This meeting was recorded on 17 February in my cabinet. Without wishing to start the debate on the substance, which should take place shortly in the Committee on Social Affairs, I can say that I do support a change in the monitoring procedure initiated by the Federal Pension Service. Indeed, the current situation could not continue, since the number of unjustified suspensions has only increased in recent years. This is proof that the control as it was practiced was totally ineffective and therefore needs to be reviewed. The old procedure was also extremely burdensome for GRAPA beneficiaries who had to systematically visit their municipal administration. The new procedure allows the vast majority (95% apparently, but we will soon have the figures) to stop having to go to the communal house. It is of course a service to people who sometimes find it difficult to move. I think we need to be aware of this improvement. The Federal Pension Service was therefore right, it seems to me, to want to change this procedure. However, it is now necessary to examine and take into account the comments made by the Data Protection Authority and by the associations, before deciding what further action should be taken. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u62	Minister, I am disappointed in your answer. It is not because the previous procedure was not good that this procedure is really a good one. I am convinced that no one should worry about getting the end of the month in his old age. People are really afraid to miss such control, Minister. They fear that when they go to the market, when they go to the library, when they look after their grandchildren, the postman may be at the door. The government should actually be a partner to help these people get them out of poverty. This is and remains a disgrace to us. Instead of concluding an expensive contract with bpost, Minister, you would better use these resources to use social assistants to track down the old people who are not yet exercising their rights. Instead of controlling the elderly, your government would better open up the hunt for the great fraudsters and tax evaders in this country, through whom we miss 30 billion each year. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a majority in this House to put an immediate stop to this. Mr Minister, your government partner, CD&V, has also recognised that this practice is harsh and calls for an adjustment. We must not wait for a new government to get rid of this!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u63	Minister, you will not be surprised, but I too am disappointed in the answer. For me, these controls are no more or no less than a witch hunt for small pensions, a flat-rate saving on the hood of already vulnerable pensioners. You do not even have compassion with people over 80 years of age and no longer hear the bell or elderly people in the hospital. In 83% of cases, including in 2019, these suspensions appear to be unjustified. Our pensions aren't the highest, but you're grounding people with the lowest pensions. You make postmen, who should be trusted, controllers; people are afraid that they would miss them. We can arrange that in Parliament. Retreat that measure, Minister. Pull back that letter. For us, the sp.a., that plague measure can be kicked immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u64	Mr Minister, the old procedure was wrong: 83% of the people whose benefits were suspended were still right. Their benefit was unjustly withdrawn. Now there is a new procedure with checks by the postman. There are still a lot of misunderstandings about that. I think it is important that you give information about these procedures at least as stated in the opinion of the privacy committee. Now people are afraid to miss the mailman while they get three checks. Even if they're not home, they can still go to City Hall. There are still problems for people who are in a hospital. I asked for a solution to this in October, and I am now asking for it back. I'm glad you're going to sit with the people on the premises on February 17th. I hope that there will be a solution on that day, because then you will be sitting with the representatives of the 110,000 people who receive an IGO. My birthday's on February 17th, too. My birthday wish for that day is to find a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u65	That last argument seems pertinent to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u66	Minister, as in committee, we have had an answer "to the Daniel Bacquelaine"! I call for a topical debate in our committee so that we can examine in more detail the content of the opinion and the assessment that you announced to us by the end of January. I confirm that many beneficiaries are concerned. They're afraid to leave their homes for more than five days, they're afraid to miss the mailman, they're afraid to be punished. The cause of the problem is known: minimum pensions are too low in Belgium. So, support our fight to raise pensions and you'll have fewer people to control!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u67	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on Tuesday 28 January, US President Donald Trump presented to the press around the world – together with the Israeli Prime Minister – a supposed two-state "realistic" plan to try to resolve the crisis in the Middle East. This plan is very, perhaps too favourable for Israel, to which it grants numerous guarantees such as the recognition of Jerusalem as an indivisible capital and sovereignty over all settlements in the West Bank. Moreover, this proposal has already been rejected by the Palestinians. Mr Minister, it seems obvious to me that this "peace" plan is very unbalanced and that it breaks with the spirit of the Oslo Accords. Basically, looking at reality in the face, since 1996 and the assassination of Yitzhak Rabin, there has been no real progress in the peace process. The situation has only deteriorated. This plan of unilateral "peace" is the climax without real hope, for we do not, of course, make peace alone or with our friends: we do it with our enemies. Nor would such an imbalance be possible without the unprecedented weakness of the European Union. Of course, the Head of Diplomacy assured "to study and evaluate the proposals put forward". Here again, let us be clear: we have been absent for decades from this conflict in the Middle East, as if it were the whole European Union that was – forgive me for the expression – in day-to-day business. Faced with such an imbalance, it is in our role – even as a small country – to react. In this regard, we have a weapon, which is our seat on the Security Council. Therefore, Minister, my questions are simple. This Saturday, Belgium will take over the presidency of the United Nations Security Council. What will our country stand in the face of the falsely realistic solution proposed by the US President? Will we have the courage to say that this peace plan is not one and that no one can make peace alone?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u68	The floor is again in the PTB and not in the PS, as indicated on the list. The PS seems to be expanding, if we believe the list. There are two errors in the list!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u69	Mr President, Mr Minister, on Tuesday afternoon US President Donald Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benyamin Netanyahu presented the "deal of the century", a so-called peace plan that is actually an annexation plan that sits on international law and flouts 66 UN resolutions. It is a plan that normalizes the current situation, the situation of the occupation that makes the Palestinian people live in hell. We can talk about houses destroyed with bulldozers. We can talk about the millions of refugees expelled from their homes. One can speak of peasants driven out of their land, whereas it is their only means of existence. We can talk about olive trees that are destroyed and burned. We can speak of repeated bombings in Gaza that have resulted in thousands of deaths, one third of which are children. And I'm passing... What does this plan propose to the Palestinians? They're being asked to accept the situation. Nothing's gonna change. It's going to go on like this. They are therefore condemned to live in an "apartheid" state. The word "apartheid" doesn't come from me. This is the word used in the official communiqué of B'Tselem, an Israeli NGO that brings together lawyers, journalists, academicians and even Knesset members. I quote the statement: "What is being offered to the Palestinians at the moment is not rights, nor a state, but a permanent state of apartheid." Minister, I brought you a map. This is Mr Trump's Palestine, which sadly reminds us of Bantustan, the apartheid state of South Africa. This is not a comment. Minister, since you are in charge of foreign affairs, you are supposed to react on important matters. Unfortunately and strangely, we did not hear you on this subject. I would therefore like to know whether you condemn Mr Trump's plan and whether you intend to work for respect for international law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u70	Mr President, Minister, Donald Trump's peace plan: a masquerade at the same time as a scam. A unilateral plan that enshrines the main demands of settlers, nationalists, "annexionists" and all that Israel has of ultras in general. A peace plan that despises the demands of the Palestinians. A peace plan that for 80 pages ignores and violates all the rules of international law. Is this peace plan the deal of the century? The Palestinian State would remain a hypothesis. The Palestinians would be deprived of control over the borders of that State, its airspace, its water reserves and its capital, and even of any possibility of recourse to international institutions, such as the International Criminal Court. By its shocking asymmetry, by its indecent bias, this plan blows on the already burning embers lit by the Trump administration in the region for months. For us Socialists, Minister, it is the provocation of too much. It is the spark of too much a pyromaniac diplomacy that keeps us away from a two-state solution. Peace is not bought. Peace doesn't fade. She's building up and negotiating. In this context, how can we interpret the deafening silence of our diplomacy when we are on the eve of taking the presidency of the Security Council? Minister, my questions are very simple. What is the Belgian position on this pseudo-peace plan? What is our country's position on this text within the European Union and the Security Council? Do we intend to put this item on the agenda for its next sitting? Have you been able to talk to the US authorities about this? If not, do you intend to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium has taken note of all the American proposals formally presented by the President of the United States. We must now take the time to analyse them in depth, in consultation with our European partners, but also with other partners. You will have noted that High Representative Josep Borrell made a statement on behalf of the European Union within two hours of the announcement of the American plan. Mr. De Smet referred to this statement, which states, inter alia, that "the European Union's assessment of the American plan will be based on the common European position and its firm commitment to a negotiated and viable two-State solution. A solution that will take into account the legitimate aspirations of Palestinians and Israelis, in accordance with agreed parameters and relevant United Nations resolutions." Belgium fully subscribes to this declaration, as I myself expressed on the evening of 28 January, with a very clear emphasis on respect for international law. The in-depth evaluation of the US proposals is under way. An initial analysis indicates that the U.S. plan is moving away from the consensus parameters in the international community. In Belgium's view, a credible negotiation process must, on the one hand, comply with international law and, on the other hand, be based on parameters acceptable to both parties. Only negotiations in good faith between the parties, with confidence-building measures, can lead to a lasting, comprehensive and just peace. The announcements, both American and Israeli, concerning a unilateral annexation of Israeli settlements in the West Bank and the Jordan Valley are not precisely conducive to the resumption of such a process between the parties. In the Security Council and in the European Union and before this Parliament, the Belgian government has repeatedly condemned Israeli colonization and denounced the ambitions of unilateral annexation of entire parts of the West Bank. Our position has not changed. For the rest, I refer you to my reply in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 21 January. Together with the European Union, Belgium considers – I insist – that settlement policy undermines respect for the fundamental rights of Palestinians and also fundamentally compromises the two-state solution. Colonies and unilateral annexations are illegal under international law and are clearly an obstacle to peace. This plan, whatever we think of it and whatever the in-depth analysis of it, of which I have spoken to you, has at least one effect: to put the issue of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict at the top of the political and diplomatic agenda. There is an urgent need for the international community to make further efforts towards a comprehensive, just and lasting peace. This conflict must not be managed, it must be resolved, neither by a unilateral approach, nor by the policy of fait accompli, but by a multilateral system that the international community has established since 1945 to govern relations among its members. In the meantime, Belgium will remind the European Union and the Security Council of the primacy of international law and the need to promote the resumption of credible negotiations. Together with our European partners, the United States and other members of the Security Council, Belgium will continue its efforts in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u72	Minister, you've had some important words. I thank you for speaking about respect for international law and respect for the fundamental rights of the Palestinians. However, we could have hoped for a slightly stronger condemnation. We, Europeans, can no longer continue to accept this kind of new world order, which is that of fait accompli. The fait accompli must not be a policy. The balance of power can no longer be a policy. I take note of your commitments. I hope that, in the inherent processes of information and government formation, we will not forget to talk about foreign affairs and respect for international law. Indeed, they are strangely absent from all possible versions of the informants' notes. I encourage you to ensure that our representative on the United Nations Security Council is strong, including if the United States uses its veto on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u73	Minister, I hear you want to take the time to analyze this plan. Take the time? The Palestinian people have been suffering for sixty years, and you want to take the time to analyse what I have described, namely that this plan only legitimizes the present situation, which is catastrophic for the Palestinian people. You want to work for peace, Minister, but then make sure that international law is respected. This requires sanctions against the State of Israel. Why this hypocrisy and double standards? When other countries violate international law, you are the first to punish and condemn them. Now, when it comes to Israel and the United States, it is radio silence on the grounds that they are our allies! You want to take the time... it's already too late, minister! Now is the time to act.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u74	Minister, I have heard your references to international law, which reassured me. On the other hand, I am less so when you tell us that this plan deserves to be analysed. From the moment it is absolutely contrary to the basic principles of international law, it should not even be examined by our services. History is accelerating and leaves no room for timid discourse. It is time for our country to take strong diplomatic initiatives, supporting a genuine peace process based on the will of both peoples and the sense of compromise. Moreover, my group has drafted a text calling for the formal recognition of the State of Palestine alongside the State of Israel. Palestine is not for sale; nor is peace! The European Union can no longer align, it must assert itself. Minister, the time has come. Otherwise, it'll be too late.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u75	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u76	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Ahmed Laaouej, rapporteur, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u77	Mr President, I would just like to stand in the front of the speaker, because it seems as if it is an ordinary draft law that can pass quickly. It is a very special draft law. It is important that we take a moment to consider what we are approving here today. It concerns the financing of our Länder and how, for example, we ensure that Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels can invest in matters such as education, culture, nature, environment, well-being and so on. How does the system work today? Today, we all pay taxes, and even a lot of taxes, to the federal government. The federal government then transfers some money to the Länder, because the Länder have only a very limited own tax autonomy. That reminds me of the time that I received pocket money, and all of us. I was a kid then and got 20 francs a week. That was fun. After the scouts on Saturday, I went to Marie-Rose's shop to buy candy with that money. But it was just pocket money. I didn't really get to know the value of money until I was ten years old and signed my first contract with my father. That was because I'd wash his car once every few weeks. That was 100 francs, which was five times more. Then I got to know the value of money, because it was money I got because I worked for it. I got paid to work and was rewarded for an honest effort. These are logical and fair principles, which we should also be able to introduce into our economy and state finance, in order to ensure that governments that work and ensure that things improve can also reap the benefits of their efforts. Just on those two points, the current financing law is not well structured. Firstly, we need more fiscal autonomy. Secondly, we need more accountability and responsibility in particular. First of all, I will talk about fiscal autonomy. When I look at the bill, I find it technically correct. It is a technically correct transposition of the current Finance Act. Flanders gets what it is entitled to under the legislation. We will therefore support the draft law so that the Länder get their money. At the same time, we must also note that the financing law needs to be revised so that each government becomes responsible for cooking its own pot and collecting its own taxes. Belgium is really not doing well in this area. Tax autonomy for the Länder is only 33% in this country. This means that 67 percent of our Länder are financed by donations or pocket money. Other countries are doing much better in this area. In Sweden, for example, the percentage of donations is only 31%, in Switzerland 26% and in Canada 19%. We are talking about 67 % of dotations or pocket money. We really need to get rid of that percentage. We must move towards tax autonomy. It will ensure that politicians deal with tax cents in a much more sensible and responsible way, because they will have to answer to the citizens who have to pay taxes. So much for the first point: fiscal autonomy. A second point is more responsibility. We really want us to take the step towards a fiscal model that encourages more accountability, so that state governments that have good policies can reap the benefits of that good policy themselves, and so that states that have bad policies themselves have to bear the consequences. But what do we see today? Not only do we see pocket money federalism, we also see bill federalism. Especially in Wallonia and Brussels, deficits are accumulated, debts are accumulated. And then it is believed that someone else will pay the bill. Who is this someone else in this country? We know that, they're the Flemings. In this respect, too, our funding law is not well structured. The sixth state reform was a dragon of legislation. But there was one interesting piece in it. This is also mentioned in point 5.3 in the explanatory memorandum to this draft law. It is not so much about the funding of the Länder in this legislature, 2019-2024, but about what will happen from 2025. Then the funding of the Länder will go down and there will be accountability. This will have major consequences, especially in Wallonia. Former Walloon Prime Minister Willy Borsus has calculated this: in 2025, Wallonia will receive EUR 60 million less if it does not pursue better policies. By 2034 it will be EUR 600 million less, unless Wallonia does what is necessary and also provides for reforms, also ensuring a better and more efficient policy. Finally, we are going to have that debate again on accountability. But still not enough. It has to be more for us. It has to be stronger for us. We know that this debate is coming. So let us have this debate with an open eye. As far as N-VA is concerned, I would like to place three principles on the market. Firstly, we want a new system of financing that is much simpler and more transparent. There are federal countries that are doing a lot better than we are. Look at Canada and Switzerland. Secondly, we want a model that is much more conducive to responsibility, to accountability. Those who do good must be rewarded; those who do not do good must pay the invoices themselves. Full fiscal autonomy. It was already in the Flemish resolutions of 1999. It was also in the octopus notes. It is time for it to be included in our funding law. Thirdly, and finally, yes, we also want a proper and cordial solidarity with the Länder which are doing less well. We also have proposals for this. Even our federalism provides for a permanent solidarity mechanism, but a solidarity that is objective, transparent, efficient and that encourages responsibility. So let us vote on this today, and then the Länder will get their money, thank goodness. However, please do not tell us that this has led to the fundamental debate. This will only be the case when we abandon pocket money federalism and bill federalism and finally opt for transparency, efficiency and responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u78	Mr Loones, we are also considering this draft because I do not think that the funding of the Länder is really insignificant. The present draft law provides for the second amendment of the Finance Act of 21 December 2018 for the financial year 2019, updating the amounts and payments to the Communities and Regions that were paid in last year in implementation of the Special Financing Act. Those referring to amounts and transfers refer, inter alia, to the portion of the federal income tax allocated to the Regions and the Communities, the proportion of VAT allocated to the Communities and advances for the regional income tax. If the estimates of real GDP growth and the evolution of the consumer price index are adjusted, it will of course have an impact on the allocated portion. Dotations and transfers also mean that it is still the federal government that collects those taxes. The fiscal autonomy of the Länder has increased in the sixth state reform, but it remains largely inadequate for our group because we reject the entire state financing system, with the federal loyalty so often used here. About six years ago, we did not approve the then new special financing law because the financing of the Länder remains based on donations and not on the full financial responsibility of the Länder. In a nutshell that is no matter what you say, Mr Loones. In my opinion, there are few specialists in the hemisphere with regard to the special financing law, or it should be Mr Verherstraeten, who was one of the architects of the sixth state reform. He wrote another book about it that's in my library. I'm not a specialist on the subject either, but what I do know is that economist Geert Jennes of the KU Leuven, researcher at VIVES, is one. In a recent free stand, he put the dots on the i. He pointed out that even after the gradual reduction of the transitional mechanism, from 2025 onwards, the Walloon Region and the French Community would not end up in significant financial difficulties, precisely because even after 2024 Flanders' solidarity with Wallonia will remain high. The budget transfers from Flanders to Wallonia, part of the global transfers to the Walloon Region and the French Community and contained in the Special Financing Act, amount to approximately EUR 1.9 billion per year. The inhabitants of Wallonia make 1.9 billion more money per year from the special financing law than they put in through the taxes they pay to the federal government. For the Flemings, the exact opposite is true. Moreover, the Flemings also transfer EUR 800 million a year to Brussels. By the way, figures from Minister Alexander De Croo, who asked for Pas, show that the Flemish share of personal income tax is increasing proportionally year after year, but that at the same time the Walloon share is falling for at least the fourth year in a row. While the Flemings paid 25.8 billion euros in personal taxes in 2014, this increased to 28 billion euros in 2018. In Wallonia, €11.5 billion were paid in 2014 and €12.3 billion in 2018, or only €0.8 billion extra compared to the €2.2 billion extra paid by Flanders. In short, in Flanders more than twice as many personal taxes are collected as in Wallonia. It is the Flemings, who play a fairly important role in keeping the Belgian nv financially alive. It is even more remarkable, because according to the economist Jennes mentioned above, both the Walloon region, the French Community and the Flemish government lose to the special financing law in favour of the deficit federal government, because the amounts increase annually only by part of economic growth. According to Mr Jennes, the sixth state reform will refinance the federal government. However, Mr Leysen has a point when he talks in committee about taking into account the rising Belgian government deficit. In the coming years, the Regions and the Communities will account for only 10% to 20% of the deficit and the rest will come from the federal level. With a new reform of the special financing law in the framework of a possible seventh state reform, a Pandora box could open. The content of this can go all the way, even towards federal paradise, which Mr Calvo has always dreamed of. With Pandora's boxes like this, we have to be extremely careful. I hope it goes in the direction of tax autonomy. That's also the direction you're heading for. However, in the case of the box that is now on the table, we can question it. By the way, you're doing the same thing yourself. The Flemish Interest Group fits in with that box, Mr President. We fit for federal loyalty and for the little transparent funding system of the special financing law, to politely express it. We ask for 100 % tax autonomy and therefore also a separate, autonomous Flemish state.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u79	Mr Ravyts, I would like to interrupt you for a brief question. You say you don't want to open Pandora's box. Does that mean that you will vote against today? So you don't think Flanders should be given that kind of resources? For you, then, everything has to stick to the old? After all, as soon as we begin the discussion, the box appears to open. So you will vote against the money that goes from the federal government to Flanders?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u80	No, not at all. You're asking a fair question. I should have given an explanation of vote. The Flemish interest will abstain, because of course we do not want the Land of Flanders to receive a transfer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u81	The government can always intervene. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u82	Mr President, it was a very interesting reflection of both Members, but this is a rather technical adjustment. This concerns in particular the second amendment of the Financial Act for the financial year 2019. That law regulates the amounts and payments to the Regions and the Communities. Those amounts have already been correctly paid out, on the basis of the special financing law, but have not yet been adjusted in the law. This is, in fact, the part of the allocation of the tax on natural persons to the Regions and Communities, the part of the allocation of VAT to the Communities and the advances of the tax on natural persons to the Regions. Some have been adjusted slightly lower, some have been adjusted higher on the basis of real GDP growth and the adjustment of the index to consumer prices. As Mr Loones points out, there are many theoretical considerations about the future. However, this draft ensures that the regions and communities are given the resources they work with. I don't think anyone can argue with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u83	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u84	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (890/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (890/3) The bill has 9 articles. The draft law has 9 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u85	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u86	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Caroline Taquin, Philippe Pivin, Joy Donné, Franky Demon, Benoît Piedboeuf, David Clarinval, Koen Metsu, Cécile Thibaut, Vanessa Matz.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u87	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative proposal regulates the transfer of funds released by the abolition of the preferential retirement age in the local police force to the NAVAP regime. This is how Mr Joy Donné started the explanation of the bill. These resources will be available both to staff who choose to take up the non-activity and to staff who wish to continue working in an adapted position. The current funding ended at the end of 2019 and if nothing is done, the additional costs will be directly borne by all police areas. Ms Taquin, the main proposer of the bill, outlined its origins and added that the EUR 46 million to finance the extension of the NAVAP scheme comes from the Consolidated Pension Fund of the provincial and local authorities, not from the federal government's resources. Some members of the committee took the floor during the morning meeting. I myself outlined that this arrangement came about after the Sypol Police Union in 2011-2012, because it was felt that the ex-rich guards had a better pre-retirement scheme than the members of Sypol, who are found in the judicial police. At that time, the Constitutional Court took down the entire regime, including for the ex-lawyers, and abolished everything. The government came up with the NAVAP as a solution. Today, this bill is before us, which wants to extend this scheme for a year. Let us be clear, it is a pre-pension scheme. I argued in committee that the next government should try to achieve a structural arrangement that would abolish the pre-pension scheme. Mrs Thibaut of Ecolo-Groen indicated that her group would support the proposed bill which would reduce the pressure on police areas. Her group also sees funding as a temporary solution for 2020 and hopes to see a new system in the future. Ms. Dedonder of the PS indicated that she was in favour of a policeman taking leave prior to retirement. It also needs to find a solution so that the police zones do not have to bear the costs of the early exit. For her group, however, it is a question of knowing who will pay the bill. After all, the federal government transferred the cost of the measure to the local authorities, as Mrs Taquin also said in her explanatory statement, namely through the Consolidated Pension Fund. In practice, therefore, it is the municipalities, the provinces and the OCMWs that pay the bill. In 2016, local authorities paid more than 29 million euros. In 2017, it amounted to more than 35 million euros, 38 million euros in 2018 and 37 million euros in 2019. For the PS Group, it is unacceptable for local authorities to be put under pressure in this way. By 2020 it will amount to EUR 46 million. Local authorities have already aligned their budget with the contribution rates for pension funds. This is based on the 2019 postures. The speaker announced that the PS would table two amendments to address this problem. Mr Demon of CD&V supported the presentation by the two proposers. For his group, it is logical that an ad hoc regime should be extended in 2020 pending a permanent system. Mrs Vanrobaeys van de sp.a pointed out that for her group there was a need for a regulation. We need to find a solution for these policemen and provide clarity and security to the police zones and local authorities. As you could read in the report, there was a vote on the PS amendment in the morning. During that vote on Amendment No. 1 to Article 2 was wrongly voted. At the end of the morning meeting, it was found that the result 8-7 was incorrect: 16 members of the committee were present. So there had been a material error. The President then decided to convene members again in the afternoon and discuss what had to be done with the previous vote that was wrong. During the afternoon sitting, the chairman explained to all the members of the committee present the material error of counting the vote on Amendment No 2. One of the PS did not include the president's vote, which made it 8-7 and adopted the amendment. In the case of a correct vote, it should have been 8-8, because there were 16 Members present. So there was a voice missing. In that case, the amendment would have been rejected. At the afternoon meeting, a member of the PS, who was not present in the morning, accused the chairman and a number of committee members of playing political games and said that some committee members who were present in the morning had either not voted or gone outside. He pointed out that the error could not be proved with certainty. As rapporteur, I found it very strange that someone who was not present at the morning meeting could simply lay down what did not happen. I said the same thing at the meeting. So far, my findings. The President has carried out the instructions of the Conference of Presidents. It had decided that the committee itself should regulate its work and decide whether or not to re-vote. The President had to conclude that there was no consensus because the PS and sp.a groups did not agree. [[(...):]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u89	Mr. Thiébaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u90	Madam Chair, I was in committee that morning. I remember the vote very well. As this was an important vote, I counted all my arms. We even counted them several times.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u91	Mr Thiébaut, you are interrupting the report. You'll come in after that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u92	Madam Chair, this is not a report, there is a position statement and a judgment on a Member, who was there in the afternoon, our group leader.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u93	Madam President, Mr Vandenput will have every opportunity to give his interpretation of the way in which the debates took place, but not at the time of his presentation of the report. This is the committee's report, drawn up by the secretariat and finally approved by all Commissioners on the basis of the remarks made and validated, or not, by the other Commissioners. Mr Vandenput, this is not the time to give your interpretation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u94	All right, Mr Laaouej, I'll tell you later. The President has therefore clearly carried out the instruction from the Conference of Presidents. He saw that there was no consensus, which kept the result of the vote for the afternoon. As a result, the legislative proposal, with the amendment adopted, is now under discussion. A member of the PS has pointed out that the possibility of tabling an amendment in plenary is still open, and I understand that Mrs Taquin did so today. Madam President, this is the report. I will speak on behalf of my group in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u95	I fully endorse the rapporteur's report. I also find it most curious that someone who was not present at the committee's morning meeting, the other members of the committee, came to lecture on what happened that morning. In the afternoon session, moreover, the President stated, on the basis of what he had heard from his secretary, that there was actually a mistake in the count and that without that material error the amendment would have been rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u96	The initial proposal, as it was put forward in committee, is that the police areas concerned will not be reimbursed by the federal government for the NAVAP scheme, but will receive their funds from the Consolidated Pension Fund. That is also the logic itself. After all, the local authorities and the police areas concerned are saving money because they no longer have to bear the pension costs that have been lost. It is therefore logical that the money that will be released should be transferred to the police areas, which should be covered by the NAVAP scheme. In this way, we are simply continuing the policy of the last four years. It is a provisional arrangement, as the previous speaker pointed out, which is logical given the fact that the government is in current cases. For the local authorities and the police areas concerned, the mechanism of recent years is thus being continued. I would like to stress that, contrary to what others claim, there are no new burdens. On the contrary, the amendment contains in its accountability an additional phrase stating that the balance of the costs of the NAVAP system is paid out of the federal treasury. That hasn't even happened in the last few years. It is an important commitment, given that the police zones were no longer reimbursed for their NAVAP system during the last two quarters of 2018 and 2019. So that is an additional major concession from the federal government to the local authorities. I would like to add and remind you that in 2018 the Michael I government provided for an additional amount of EUR 121 million per year for local authorities, both in 2018, 2019 and 2020, precisely to make the pension costs for local authorities much more bearable. It seems to me, therefore, that we are returning with the amendment to a balanced system, in which local authorities are not overly burdened.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u97	Mr Donné, you made your first speech in the Chamber. Apart from the substance of the matter, I congratulate you on your maiden speech. [[Applause]] Mr Crombez asked to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u98	Mr President, I waited until after Mr Donné's speech. Both the rapporteur and the first speaker referred to the vote on an amendment. I would like to say a few words about this. It is a vote with 8 votes in favour and 7 votes against, a vote so appointed by the President, and of which there is an image report. If it is allowed in Parliament to question the outcome of such a valid vote, then we have a major problem. I would like to believe that a vote can be difficult. Everyone has to watch and count. However, the video recording clearly shows that the committee chairman declared the vote to be finished with 8 votes in favour and 7 against. There may have been material errors and accusations, but if the Rules of Procedure allow a vote to be reinterpreted, how can Parliament still organise its operation? It is what it is. Such matters are already taking place in committee meetings. The vote will be taken at the show of hands. Sometimes we have to vote again or count again. However, what is already being insinuated twice here is downright dangerous.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u99	Mr Crombez, we have discussed this issue several times with the leaders of the political groups in the Conference of Presidents. Of course, the plenary is the master of its work. An amendment may also be retabled in plenary. I am aware of the exchange of views and discussions on the progress of the committee meeting. Mr Vandenput has reported on this. We will follow the course of this general discussion. Amendments may be tabled in plenary. I cannot anticipate how this will be voted on.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u100	Mr President, of course you cannot anticipate the vote. Everyone is indeed free to table any amendment. However, this is totally unrelated to the events in the committee meeting. Mr President, this is a painful and not so insignificant matter. When voting in a committee, for whatever reason, a Member of Parliament may be inconspicuous and vote wrong or not, which sometimes happens and even the best among us may happen, not to mention myself. Okay, I guess that's the way it is. The MP should have been more attentive. If this results in a vote of 8 votes in favour of 7 against, the chairman of the political group may address the member of the political group concerned seriously. If, however, it turns out that when the vote fails, re-votes are requested, that is totally unacceptable. On that point, I absolutely agree with the other Members. It cannot be asked to try again if, for some reason, a vote is being held. However, if an official finds in the performance of his duties that a human error has occurred, that error must be rectified. Let us admit in all honesty that everyone can make mistakes. Let us not be too strict about this. Whosoever is without sin, cast the first stone. There may not be any rocks flying through the hemisphere here. If it is found that there has been a miscount, because, for example, the President is not counted, which can happen, then it is a serious fact. In that case, there is no need to re-vote. We are then being asked to restore, because a vote has not been properly included in the report. That's the point. A vote of 8 votes in favour by 8 votes against, for example, was recorded as a vote of 8 votes for by 7 votes against. That was, of course, the best thing to do immediately and on the spot. I agree with that, too. It will once again be a good reason to encourage the ultimate alertness of all Members, especially when voting. There's still a big difference between 10 votes to 3 than 8 votes to 7. If it should be 10 to 4 in the first example, then that is not a bad thing, we are all so smooth. In this case, that false count had a very far-reaching effect. The work continued with the insertion of an amendment, after which, at the reading and confirmed by the secretary of the committee, I did not cast a stone on him, because we are all people, and it has been established that the vote took place was actually 8 votes in favour of 8 votes against. We shall therefore be tabling an amendment which we shall await its effect. It could, if necessary, correct some of the facts. However, I regret that certain groups have questioned the word of the secretary of the committee here. I also want to express my full confidence in that person, and I want to have it recorded here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u101	Mr President, Mr Crombez, we must not take a walk with the truth. I'll try not to. The facts are the facts. I would like to express my thanks to the reporter for his objective report. I would also like to thank Mr De Roover for his explanation. The administration has indeed informed me that a material error had occurred at the time of the census. I had two choices on that. I could leave everything blue and not say anything, but I chose to follow the path of democracy and call the committee back together in the afternoon. The only thing I had to do there was to have the opportunity to vote on that amendment. I deliberately wanted to make that discussion public in committee. All the groups and even members of political groups who were not present in the morning were allowed to say there, whether or not with accusations about my person that I would play political games, that I would put pressure on the committee secretariat and so on. I would like to point out that the committee members of the Committee on the Interior have not yet been able to catch me playing some kind of political game. I'm not gonna take that accusation either. I have tried to leave all the members of the committee to speak whether or not to recount. I have noticed that there was no consensus on this. At that time, I wisely decided not to vote again and to send the legislative proposal to plenary, where amendments may or may not be retabled, as the President of the Chamber quite rightly pointed out. Those are the facts, no more, no less. I find it very faint that people want to turn it into a state case and try to narrow it down to political games. That's not gonna happen to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u102	Mr President, I broadly agree with Mr De Roover's statement. I do not think that the insinuation that we would be throwing a stone at the committee staff would be appropriate. I agree with you that this is about us. You should see how we sometimes vote in committee. You referred to yourself not so long ago, but this applies to everyone. Sometimes we vote with our elbows and the employees have to count it. That's what happens all the time. My point is another. Mr Depoostere, your reaction to me about games that you would be playing goes completely alongside the point I want to make. Mr President, I would just like to make one point, and you will understand that very well. The only thing that regulates a democratic vote is a Rules of Procedure. If anything is voted on in committee and the chairman informs the result of the vote and thus closes the session, then that is it. If, after a vote and a close vote, you call a new vote on the same point, then I would advise you all to think carefully, because you will then install a very serious problem which is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. The incident is what it was. Soon there will be the vote on the amendment. That's how it goes, no problem. All I'm saying is that we have to be careful with that. If there is no actual proof that there is a problem with a vote, then one must come a long way to get something to vote again. That is what I would like to warn colleagues who are now very enthusiastic about this. Be careful. Look at the Rules of Procedure. You always have that on your side, and one day you're happy, the next time you're not. If you're not happy with it now, then piss. The chairman knows very well what I mean. Calling new votes without actual evidence is very delicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u103	I have recorded in the minutes of the Conference of Presidents that in committee votes and there are quite a few votes that have been taken together, that is the fate of the current political spectrum, everyone would be attentive and would participate in the vote in a very visible manner. That is not always the case, but that is not the problem here. I suggest that we move forward and that everyone has the right and the freedom to make the points he wants to make in this plenary. We have had this discussion twice in the Conference of Presidents. Amendments can be tabled here and we shall vote on them at the end of the sitting if they are tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not dwell on the history that led to the introduction of this pre-pension non-activity scheme for certain police officers. You probably all know the ruling of the Constitutional Court. Nor can anyone ignore the measures of the Michel government that forced everyone, including the police, to work longer before they could go to the pension. To prevent some police officers from being left behind, it was necessary to take a measure that was intended to be temporary, pending finding a measure for all. The least we can say is that it takes time. Remember, recognition of hard work was the government's great promise to swallow the pill, to pass its attacks on pensions. This promise has never been fulfilled. Colleagues, we are in favour – and we have always been – of the fact that sanctioned police officers can take pre-pension leave. But let me once again regret that this measure cannot be applied to all police officers and that the promised structural solution has never come into being, leaving most of them on the tile. Today, what we are concerned about is who is going to pay the bill. For the PS, it is certain that it is not for the police areas to bear the cost of early departure to the pension. It is imperative, we must find a solution for 2020 and already ask ourselves what we will do in 2021 and in the years that follow. At the time, when Minister Jambon had repeatedly stated that the federal government would take over the financing of this measure, the government finally decided, once it was not customary, to pass on the cost of the measure to the local authorities, through a charge of the consolidated pension fund of provincial and local governments managed by the Federal Pension Service. It is therefore the municipalities, the provinces, the CPAS that have paid the mark since 2016 to the detriment of their local policy. In concrete terms, local authorities disbursed more than EUR 29 million in 2016, more than EUR 35 million in 2017, more than EUR 38 million in 2018, and nearly EUR 37 million in 2019. Let us admit that the slate is salty! Many of you are communal agents; or at least, each of you, I am convinced, is attentive to the well-being of the citizens of his commune. But how do you want to improve the living environment of the population if, constantly, resources are withdrawn from the local authorities? History is an eternal repetition. There is no longer the number of measures taken by the government, the cost of which has been transferred to our communes. Do I have to remind you of the under-funding of relief zones, police zones, the tax shift, the administrative sanctions department and, more broadly, the measures against the sick, against job seekers, and I am passing, impoverishing our population and drastically increasing the number of applicants for integration income from our CPAS? The municipalities, the CPAS can no longer do so. They're asphyxiated, they're exsanguated. For us, it is not the local authorities, through the APL Fund, that must continue to open the purse. However, the initial bill tabled by the MR, and re-tabled today in the form of an amendment, makes the choice to extend, for 2020, what the Michel government had done so far, that is, to charge the local authorities. Not 37 million euros like last year! But 46 million euros, updated figure, or 9 million more than was planned in 2019. This is the extra charge! In the proposed scheme, it was therefore either the police areas that paid for them or the other local authorities. For the PS, it's not fair. It's not tenable. And today, we deplore the persistence of the MR to absolutely want to charge our communes. You cannot demand butter, i.e. the satisfaction of the police officers concerned, and keep the butter money by returning the bill to the local level. I sincerely hope that, at the time of the vote, you, the agents concerned about your police area, concerned about your commune, concerned about your fellow citizens, will remember and support our amended proposal, which, on the one hand, ensures that the police areas receive funding to fully offset the cost of NAPAP and, on the other hand, provides that it is the federal authority that is responsible for the cost of the measure that it has adopted. It's all quite logical. Do you know a lot of people who make others pay for what he dreamed of? Personally, my neighbor never paid my bills. With our proposal, we are returning nearly EUR 50 million to local authorities for their policies in favour of citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u105	Mr President, on the substance of the matter, we agree with the views expressed by Mr Vandenput and Mr Donné. It is indeed only a temporary solution, but it is important that we do not abandon the local authorities, and certainly our policemen. Mr Crombez, you said that sometimes the Rules of Procedure are not so bad and sometimes not so good. In this case, there is nothing in the Rules of Procedure about such a material error. It is then up to the committee to arrange its own work. With regard to the material error, there is simply no precedent. That was the big problem; we could not refer. We have now set a precedent and it is a dangerous precedent. You may not question it, Mr Crombez, but Mr Laaouej did. He questioned the statements of a staff member of the Chamber. That is a dangerous precedent, because then we can question everything that has been written down or said here, everything that is made up by the staff of the house. That's a dangerous precedent. It is a matter of material error that we cannot predict their capacity, the moment and how they manifest themselves. An even more dangerous precedent is that we should follow a vote based on such a material error. That's dangerous. If there is a wrong vote in the future due to an error in the computer system, for example, will we refer to this precedent to approve such a vote? I hope not. If there is nothing in the Rules of Procedure, hopefully we can count on common sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the objective of our original bill is to ensure the legal certainty of the funding mechanism for our police areas for 2020. As a reminder, this funding ended on December 31, 2019. Anything that would have wished to support the police would certainly have submitted a proposal much earlier. The original bill on which our assembly voted the urgency does not prejudge the structural financing that the next full-function government can decide. I do not go back to the procedural and voting problems encountered during the debates in committee, which are well explained in the report, but it must be pointed out, however, that these procedural errors explain the tabling of our amendment. This ensures the extension of funding for the NAPAP mechanism. For 2020, this amounts to 46 125 000 euros for our police areas. They will be financed through the joint pension fund of provincial and local governments and many of the heads of bodies and mayors requested an extension of the system, in any case for 2020. In addition, we insist that we also foresee a safety valve in our amendment. Any additional costs in relation to the above amount will be borne by the Federal Police in 2020. To this end, the appropriations of the Federal Police will be adjusted in the circumstances. The federal police will therefore bear any additional costs, but will, if necessary, receive additional resources to avoid impacting the recruitment of inspectors. The objective is to support the police areas that have finalized their 2020 budget. This safety valve therefore responds to concerns raised by some regarding the capping of the amount. Colleagues, once again, this is a measure that applies to the year 2020. It was necessary to act quickly, which is why the MR has tabled this bill, which some of you have co-signed. When it comes to federal loyalty, I would like to remind you of the public statement made by the Walloon Regional Minister of Local Authorities, Mr Dermagne: "The concertation committee has decided to extend for one year the subsidies granted to the police areas in order to support the end-of-career regime of the members of the local police". One cannot be more clear: to prolong something is to prolong something that exists, and therefore the existing funding. Moreover, the seriousness of public management is to propose financing that holds the road. Today, we're extending for a year. Secondly, we can obviously discuss, for the next few years, another financing that would reduce communal finances.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u107	Mrs Dedonder asked for the floor for an interruption. The Regulations provide for the possibility of interruption.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u108	Mrs. Taquin, you mentioned an additional amount that would be covered by the federal government. Can you tell me if it is from the 37 million or 46 million, updated figure? The figure transmitted to the municipalities by the Federal Pension Service is 37 million. The municipalities have drawn up their budgets on this basis. The updated figure is now 46,125 million. I would like to know if this additional $9 million will be covered by the federal government or if we are still talking about a supplement beyond that $46 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u109	Mr. Chairman, the evaluation that was carried out by the police services dates back to 2015. The police will be asked to re-evaluate because the exact amount that will be required to cover all NAPAPs is not yet clearly defined. We have provided $46 million in the fund, which is financed by the contributions of the statutory local police officers, since Michel Daerden, the Minister of Pensions, decided at the time. It is therefore entirely logical to use it. We will re-evaluate the exact amount, and it is possible that this amount is greater than $46 million. If this is the case, then the federal government is committed to refinance the police services in excess of the 46 million so that 100% of NAPAPs are covered and this does not cost the municipalities one euro.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u110	Mr President, I was bouncing on the minister's response. We're talking about 37 million euros at the start. This means that an additional 9 million are borne by the municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u111	Ms.Dedonder, so far, the coverage was not 100%. Indeed, some areas may have had only 75% or 80% of NAPAP's coverage. As a mayor, I've known this in another life, some time ago. The major advance is that now the coverage rate will reach 100%, so that no municipality is left on the side. The re-evaluation will be carried out by the police in the coming weeks, so as to ensure full coverage. Indeed, 46,125 million will be drawn from the fund. If a supplement is needed, the state will bring it through the federal budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u112	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u113	This car is powered by local police, as Mr. Daerden wanted at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u114	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u115	No, no! Mrs. Taquin had the floor. Mrs. Dedonder, I let you talk, but we are not going to go on like this forever. We must also respect the order of speakers. Please, Mrs. Taquin.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u116	Mr President, thank you. Colleagues, as I said, this is once again a measure for the year 2020. It was necessary to act quickly. That is why the MR has tabled this bill, which some of you have co-signed. I invite you to adopt our amendment and the bill itself. You have all the useful and necessary information. I thank Ministers Clarinval and Bacquelaine, as well as my group leader Benoît Piedboeuf, for their support of this demand from the police, who are under pressure. I also welcome the fellow signatories and those who will support the proposal and the amendment. I will conclude my speech by stating that the police will greatly appreciate this gesture.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u117	CD&V has submitted the present legislative proposal and is therefore of course in favour of the proposed regulation. The pension reform and subsequent judgment of the Constitutional Court have caused a number of problems regarding the end of the career of police forces. The 2014 government agreement has rightly already addressed this issue. The Royal Decree of 9 November 2015 provides for a number of additional end-of-life measures for the staff concerned. The government agreement also indicated that the retirement scheme would continue to exist at least until 2019 and beyond, if there were no harmonised early retirement scheme for the entire public sector by then. As this entails additional costs for the local police areas, the government decided to use the funds resulting from the estimated savings in pension expenditure to finance the additional costs. That scheme was also incorporated into the Law of 6 June 2016 and had effect from 1 January 2016 until the end of 2019. Therefore, in order to avoid a halt in funding, we believe that it is logical that the scheme should continue in 2020. With the present legislative proposal, we are happy to put that into practice. During the vote on the legislative proposal in committee, we have heard a great deal about this. Unfortunately, there was a commotion about the counting after the vote on an amendment. As the rapporteur has already pointed out, that amendment was wrong, and I have also seen it as adopted. That is why our group will support any amendment that can rectify this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u118	Mr President, there was a bit of a commotion, but we kept out of it last week in order not to make a political game of it, as is happening now, not so much because of the left but above all because of the right. However, it was clear. Those who were there in the morning saw what happened, as Mr Thiébaut rightly reminded us. I certainly think it is a good thing that Commissioners who were only present in the afternoon have an opinion on things that happened in the morning. The situation was clear; we also counted. But we certainly did not want to throw oil on the fire and on that day I looked at the chairman of the Committee on the Interior........................................................................................................................................................................................... The former Minister of the Interior promised to vouch for the end-of-life measures for our local policemen, but that proved to be an empty promise. When the federal funding was discussed in the committee, the previous majority blamed its cost on the local authorities. The minister called tournée générale, but half an hour later his wallet appeared empty! In the previous legislature, we voted against the proposed regulation because we felt that the government should have kept its word. This draft law, in its original form, can count on our support, because it is mandatory to keep promises. It is just a bit of a pity that a proposal lies here because of an error in the count or as many conclude, a material error, and not through good insights. In any case, we prefer to vote in favour of good end-of-life measures for our local agents, for the fulfilment of promises made and for the financial health of our local authorities. In short, we are fully in favour of the original legislative proposal and will not approve the additional amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u119	Mr President, I have already explained a number of points in my oral report and explained how the NAVAP scheme was implemented. Let us be clear: our party is against any pre-retirement scheme, because it is actually about a bridge pension scheme. We believe that the next government should resolve the issue in a structural manner, including its financing. Mrs Taquin's amendment is an improvement. The Minister for the Budget has already explained that anything that exceeds EUR 46 million will be paid through the federal police. The reality on the ground is that police zones themselves have to pay for the NAVAP scheme today, because there is not enough money. Mrs Taquin's amendment will no longer be the case. The police zones, which receive donations from the federal government, but also from the municipal level, will no longer have to pay extra. That seems to me to be an improvement on what is going on today. We will certainly support this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u120	Mr President, I believe that one of my first questions was about extending the funding of the NAVAP scheme. After all, it is important for governments to make end-of-life arrangements themselves to provide for their funding and not allow local authorities to pay for it. In the amendment we tabled together with the PS, we ask for support for local authorities by providing funding corresponding to the actual cost of the measure. We do not yet know how many people will be using the NAVAP scheme in the future. It is therefore important to reserve resources from the Treasury to support local authorities. This is all the more important because local police zones face more challenges. I spoke to the zoning chief about this and he says that the challenges are enormous. Cyber security, for example, used to be something for the federal police, but now someone jumps in to the local police, whose car was stolen and who has seen it somewhere in France. This means that local police need additional resources to use for local security and to take care of the people in that area. For us, the present bill is a good thing. We believe that it will be better for the municipalities and for the local police areas, which will be given more resources to invest in a local security policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u121	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the funding mechanism for the end-of-career scheme for integrated police was applied from 2016 to 2019. For the year 2020, local police operational personnel can continue to benefit. Without the proposed law, the police areas would have had to bear the cost of the measure directly. It was therefore essential to extend the payment of subsidies to police areas by 2020. The proposal has been amended to shift the burden of the SFP measure to the budget of the interior in order to ensure that the entire cost of the measure is borne by the federal government. Indeed, we believe it is his responsibility to finance the measure he has adopted. We will support the amended text.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u122	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u123	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (895/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (895/5) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u124	Art. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. • 3 –Caroline Taquin cs (895/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u125	Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u126	Sustained: the amendment and Article 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u127	Article adopted by article: 1, 3 and 4 ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u128	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Servais Verherstaeten, Philippe Goffin, Katja Gabriels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u129	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u130	I refer to the written report, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u131	Mr D'Haese was the first to speak in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, I had hoped to greet the Minister of Justice here, but we are looking for him and we are not finding him. It's a little "where's Wally." Where's the Attorney General? It is important to be able to discuss and approve his design today. From legal practice, then. A lot of practical lawyers can't handle the process of innovation within the Justice Department. Since 2014, Justice has been operating in all branches of the right to introduce a lot of innovations and changes. Now here, again, lies a new stud of a code of conduct. However, there were good reasons for this. The law on goods needed to be renewed, inter alia through the fragmentation of the sources of law in that law. Today we can vote on a structured, functional and modern code, which provides sufficient flexibility for practice. We're definitely not going to repeat ourselves. I felt that there was a very constructive cooperation and implementation in the committee, of all the good innovations. An expert even stated that an excellent arrangement had been brought to an even more excellent level. Those are not the words of a parliamentary committee, but of one of the experts. However, I would like to point out a limited number of points on which my group, the N-VA, in particular, has been able to make its mark in committee. First point. Many experts shared the view that the time was not yet ripe to introduce the fiducie, a government figure on goods, into our goods law, especially because of the many outstanding tax questions. We are dealing with a government in current affairs, which cannot fall back on a parliamentary majority. If in future it would seem appropriate to include the chapter on fiduciary in the Code, then we think it is essential that the tax framework should be clearly defined in advance and, in particular, that the possible gaps in that framework should be closed. The second main thrust of this bill is that the originally planned independent property right for utility infrastructure may open the door to the marketing or hypothesize of our critical public infrastructure. We were also supported by experts and other groups followed us. For the N-VA, public infrastructure must remain under domestic control as far as possible. Foreign private players are certainly welcome, to some extent, but their own government must always be able to retain control. That is what we are obliged to our shareholders, in this case taxpayers. Finally, there is the N-VA proposal to make the peace court exclusively competent in future for matters relating to neighborly nuisances on the basis of objective liability. To date, depending on the size of the damage (i.e. a principal amount above or below 5,000 euros), the justice of the peace and then again the court of first instance is competent rational summae. This has led to a great deal of confusion in the past, and especially in the case of wrong subpoenas before an unauthorized court. However, the Justice of the Peace is the natural judge for most of the other neighboring issues: so are the provisions of the two other subtitles of the title "Citizen Relations" of the present Code. We welcome the fact that, with one abstention, our proposal to make the Supreme Court fully competent in this matter was adopted unanimously. Our group will therefore fully approve the present code.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the book of Goods, which is before us today, is indeed a very important text. For those who have ever studied law: I think there are few lawyers today who look back with great enthusiasm on the Business Law courses. It was generally not the favourite subject of most students, although there are exceptions. It was about heirlooms, of which an eighteen or nineteen-year-old student had almost never heard. It was about property claims, mean walls, stowage rights, property and usufruct. So it wasn't very sexy, except when it was full and naked property, everyone was awake. But all the crazy on a stick. The Book of Goods is extremely important for legal practice. I think that all legal practitioners have been confronted very often with legal discussions that had to be resolved through business law. An update was really necessary. The Civil Code and the original rules date back to 1804. The lyrics were initially 216 years old. So they were older than Parliament. The text before us has been prepared for a long time and shows a great deal of expertise, which we have also seen. This has been emphasised several times by several groups. I would also like to acknowledge that very explicitly. The work that the experts have done in preparation is of an incredible level. After all, they have updated and modernised, but they have also looked at foreign countries. What have been the social evolutions to which we must respond? What choices have other countries made when drafting a modern Civil Code? Inspiration has often been found abroad. For example, the modern codes of law of the Netherlands and Quebec have been a source of inspiration. We have greatly appreciated this work. Should a reform of other codes be carried out in this way and with the same thoroughness, this would at least guarantee the quality of legislation. Apart from the necessary updates, our group believes that there is a need for modernisation. What we are approving today is a part of a code that will not last five, ten or twenty years, but will last at least fifty or a hundred years. The text must be adapted to the challenges of the 21st century. Today, we think fundamentally different. The Members know what I shall be talking about: trees, shrubs and animals than in 1804 or 1886, when the Field Code was written. A number of provisions of the Field Code are also integrated into this new book from the Civil Code, fortunately. We are therefore very pleased that during the debate a number of amendments could be adopted that meet the need for modernisation and provide a fresher perspective on how we deal with trees, shrubs and animals. Over the trees I could set up an entire tree. I have heard that some peace judges have already spoken about it today. Trees are often a source of discussion, unfortunately. Trees are often the victims of neighborly quarrels, because when neighborly quarrels arise, the tree in question is examined more closely and then it turns out not to be at 2 meters, but only at 1.85 meters from the plot limit. With a demand for the grubbing-up of that tree one tries to settle the neighbor's quarrel. The current law did not offer much opportunity to the judge in this matter. In fact, only a grubbing-up was possible, or a system of legal abuse had to be invoked. In this sense, we are pleased that the current rules are being relaxed, so that the judge can also impose a pruning. From now on, the judge may also take other elements into account. In consultation with the political groups, we have come up with good solutions, so that the Civil Code now provides that the courts must also take account of the general interest. This general interest can be broad, for example an environmental interest, a heritage interest, a landscape value. That's where we found each other. As a result, such discussions are not confined to discussions between neighbours. The judge may and must take into account the public interest. This is also continued in discussions about overhanging branches and tree roots. The importance cannot be underestimated. In this way, discussions can be resolved more easily or at least the courts have more opportunities to find a solution. We are certainly also satisfied with a perhaps rather symbolic change in the way we think about animals, fundamentally different from what was thought about animals two centuries ago. The initial design already provided for a first change, that objects can be distinguished from animals, which in itself is a new and very important element. We are pleased that an additional amendment has been accepted, recognising that animals have feelings. From now on, therefore, the Civil Code states that animals have sensitivity and biological needs. This is also a phrase that appears in the modern codes of law that have been accepted in the Netherlands, in Québec and in France in recent years. I believe that we have now taken the step towards the 21st century. I saw enthusiastic reactions today from lawyers who call this vote historic. That led me to think: would we have succeeded in making these changes to the Book of Goods of the Civil Code if the government were not in current business? If this had been a draft law and the majority had voted misguided and loyally on this text, would it have been open to the proper adjustments that have been made? It concerns a number of good adjustments, such as the power of the peace court. Do you think they're approved? I don't know. But I believe that the current cases have allowed Parliament to have more decision-making powers and so to make these adjustments to the draft, which may not have been possible in the past. Don't get me wrong, this isn't a plea to stay in business for months to come. I just want to say that sometimes it can have advantages. We will, of course, support this proposal with great conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u134	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the long-announced proposal for the introduction of a book of Goods into our new Civil Code is actually a repetition of what was already on the table before the elections and this bill is also welcomed in a positive way by the Flemish Interest. It has been achieved thanks to a number of experts who have prepared all this thoroughly, have carried out an in-depth investigation and have worked closely to ensure legal certainty, stability and flexibility. This cannot and cannot always be said of the many other reforms that have often been pursued by this Parliament during the past legislature by the Minister of Justice, unthought-out and not always supported on a social basis, resulting in numerous repair legislations and often particularly annoying in the field by professionals who had to work on them. But, ladies and gentlemen, if it is right, it can and must be said. This new Goods Code has a coherent, clear structure. In general terms, it is a good proposal that I believe will create a stable legal framework and hopefully will not give rise to repair legislation after it has been tested in practice. The positive thing is that this new code does not change everything drastically and fundamentally. Most innovations are fully justified, but existing practices that have proven to be useful are maintained. So it's not changing to change. The changes made are functional and ensure the necessary modernisation of the law on goods. Ladies and gentlemen, this legislative proposal was discussed in great detail in the Committee on Justice, following several interesting hearings in which all guests expressed a positive opinion and provided some useful and useful information. It is a positive proposal which is a coherent, coherent whole and provides answers to a number of gaps that exist today in the legislation. I have already said that it is a balanced proposal because it also provides answers to the current reality as it exists in 2020. Goods law is finally being regulated in a modern and relatively flexible way. The hearings also showed that people who have to work with knowledge on the subject with the new Code of Goods have a positive reception of this. I will not go into this in detail. After all, a very clear and comprehensive report has been produced which is certainly worth reading. However, I would like to mention a few points which are important for our group. First of all, the figure of the fiducie has disappeared from the proposal. That is very positive, as the hearings clearly showed that almost no one was in favour of this and that the tax consequences were incalculable. As Mr D'Haese has already said, our group can only welcome the changes made to the original proposals on the right of ownership of utility infrastructure. Indeed, there was justified criticism of what was originally established and what could give rise to the marketing or hypothesis of our public infrastructure or, worse still, the possible disappearance of internal control. The changes that have been made ensure that the public infrastructure must not be forgotten that this is being paid with taxpayers' money, which remains under internal control. There will also be a clear settlement in the case of neighborly nuisances. The new code offers a number of solutions that hopefully will work properly in practice, which is not really the case today. The Justice of the Peace will have sole jurisdiction, regardless of the value of the claim. That is a very good thing. The Justice of the Peace is the best placed, closest to the citizen and this Code gives him sufficient flexibility to take appropriate measures. We also welcome the legal anchoring to take into account the original state of the good from which the nuisance is caused in the event of disputes in neighbouring relations. This will create a legal framework for existing practices. Attention should be paid to preventive measures to prevent excessive neighborly nuisances rather than merely curative action, which is also positive. If this is applied in a sensible way in practice, it can prevent a great deal of misery between neighbors. In a number of situations it is predictable that problems will arise. Prevention is still better than cure. This code also pays great attention to a reform of usufruct and to the relationship with the bare owner, something which in practice has very often given rise to numerous discussions and procedures, mainly in the family sphere and in the context of inheritance law. The case law was often very different, leading to a great deal of legal uncertainty. Hopefully, the new regulation will bring about a radical change in this respect and thus give us important legal certainty. The clear demarcation of the regime in the case of repairs in the case of usufruct is also a positive change. The uncertainty that exists today in the field gives rise to a great deal of uncertainty, discussions and procedures, the outcome of which is always unpredictable. Today, there is a clear definition of who should be responsible for what, and this will promote legal certainty. Ladies and gentlemen, during the hearings a number of comments were made here and there. Most of them were then taken into account in the amendment, and rightly so. That's very positive. Unfortunately, some of the issues raised during the hearings were not taken into account. I shall confine myself to a few examples that are important. First of all, there is the duration of usufruct. Fortunately, the merger and division have been removed as company operations that can put an end to the usufruct, but the bankruptcy and the voluntary, legal and judicial dissolution are retained as grounds for termination. However, usufruct is an asset and is transferable in principle. In view of the functional approach to the law of goods, it is therefore not wise to eliminate usufruct together with the legal person. Our group regrets that this has not been deleted. With regard to the transfer pricing, it is also a missed opportunity to allow the abolition of the perpetual lease right only after 99 years. It is unacceptable that 99 years should be allowed to lapse if the basic conditions for such a right have already disappeared much earlier. The requirement that even the potential benefit should be lost so that the waiver can be pronounced is actually far too strict. I also have some reservations about the right to stand and the fate of the unpaid set-up. In spite of the justified criticism of a number of speakers during the hearings, Article 3.179 remained unchanged. That article aims to put an end to the controversy in the doctrine of law and case-law relating to the land already built or planted. This proposal deletes the distinction between paid and unpaid set-up. However, this distinction is relevant from different points of view. Instead of drastically removing the distinction, the bill had better clarified the regime of unpaid stalls. It should not be the intention that the storekeeper who has not paid for the existing stand should receive the same rights as the storekeeper who has paid for it. Good suggestions were made, which unfortunately the Committee on Justice left behind. I therefore repeat the concern that the text will continue to give rise to many discussions and legal uncertainty in practice. Mr Van Hecke pointed out just now that the book of Goods pays attention to animals. Over the last few days you have all been overwhelmed with e-mails to ask for attention for the animals in the Code. I am convinced that the text, as it stands today, supports the concerns expressed. More and more attention is being paid today to animal welfare. Reports of neglected and abused animals are always right to give rise to great indignation on the part of the population. Our group also pays great attention to animal welfare, because society increasingly regards animals as living beings with sensitivities and needs. Animals are not objects. The bill now finally distinguishes objects from animals, which was not the case in the past. Objects and animals were placed in the same category. This certainly means progress, but legal rules must also be laid down. The proposed scheme pays due attention to animal welfare and clearly states that animals have sensitivity and biological needs. It is also explicitly stated that all legal and regulatory provisions for the protection of animals must be respected. In fact, they're public order. This is as clear as it gets, ladies and gentlemen. I'm rounding up. Unfortunately, with the approval of the new book Goods, the work is not finished. Several other legislative initiatives will have to be taken in order to ensure the proper functioning of the Goods book in practice. I am thinking, for example, of the regulation of a number of tax consequences that will result from the new regulation or from the adaptation of cadastral documentation and real estate publicity. Several other examples can be given. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that the Minister first obtains the necessary advice from tax and other experts and does not go overboard in order to avoid repair legislation. I would like to end with a word of thanks for the experts who prepared and even wrote the bill in a very professional way and who accompanied it during the various committee discussions. Their input and work were particularly valuable, for which our group thanks. Our group will vote for the proposal with great enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u135	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if some say today that the adoption of this text is an historic event, then I say that history is being written every day. In any case, after about 200 years, we are finally laying new foundations for goods law. It may be said that there has been a long way to go. In politics there are no copyrights, but honor who deserves credit. During the last parliamentary term, this text, in the form of a preliminary draft law, was prepared by the Minister in the Ministry of Justice together with various actors in the field. I thank them for that. This proposal for a directive, which we have indeed had to transpose into a legislative proposal in the light of the current business regime, had a great deal of support. I would like to thank all colleagues across all party boundaries, because we have worked well together. We'd better do that more. I agree with the words of some of my colleagues, who have rightly paid tribute to the experts and professors who not only had an important hand in the texts, but also helped us in our committee work. I refer in particular to Professor Pascale Lecocq and Professor Vincent Sagaert. Thanks to their input and technical answers to questions in committee, the report is a very good source of law. In our student days as lawyers, we have learned that the report is also a source of law. Colleague Van Hecke here did some gloomy stories about his Business Law courses. Business law is indeed not the easiest issue, ladies and gentlemen, because it creates many abstract business-law structures where a student cannot immediately imagine anything. But everyone is involved in everyday life in a dispute to which goods law applies. That is why it is important that we respond and adapt the rules, all the more so because society has changed over the last 200 years. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to some of the objectives for which I believe the future legislative texts are important. Firstly, they integrate our property law and include, among other things, the lease, the deposit and the settlement of lost property in the Civil Code. I would like to point out that in future goods law will be much better instrumentalised, which will make it much wider and much easier to apply in legal practice. Many concrete situations have now been integrated into the chapter on neighbouring relations. The texts will also modernise the law on goods. That is logical and absolutely necessary: 200 years ago we lived in an agricultural society, now in a post-industrial society. I refer, among other things, to the reduction of the time limit for obtaining limitation periods and the new possibilities for using public domain in private-public constructions. New balances must be found between individual and general interest. Mr Van Hecke pointed out that the importance should not be underestimated. I assume that he meant the general interest, and in that case I agree. With regard to the flexibilisation of goods law, it is a good thing that the parties' will autonomy is strengthened. Finally, I would like to illustrate with a few concrete examples the importance of the new legislative texts. Think of the arrangement regarding found goods. Now take a left behind bike. It used to depend on whether the bicycle was found on private or public domain. On private domain one could become owner after thirty years. On public domain, the municipality was able to sell the bicycle after three months and collect the proceeds. It goes without saying that the location where a left behind object is found should not be relevant to its legal assessment. Soon the finder will have to try to deliver that bike to the rightful owner. If he fails to do so, it can be sold, while the original owner can claim the proceeds for five years. Of course, there should still be a reasonable reward and remain for the honest finder. Secondly, as far as usufruct is concerned, the bare owners are responsible for the large repair costs. For example, the insulation standards laid down in Flemish environmental legislation. Private owners are obliged to invest in, among other things, a new roof, better insulation, double glazing, in short, heavy insulation investments to meet the insulation standards, although they may never be able to use the property. With the new regulations, they can claim that the fruit user contributes: proportional, depending on the value of the usufruct compared to the bare property. Thirdly, in the past, trees too close to the border of a plot could only be grubbed up. Now there is also the option of cutting them, taking into account the general interest. A tree in the center of a municipality or city also has a social value. I once heard a mayor of an important Flemish municipality say that a tree in a city is a work of art and is sensitive to the residents. The general interest plays a fundamental role here. Fourthly, from now on there is the possibility of perpetuating the right to stand, which is not irrelevant in the context of commercial constructions. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we were not attacked, then we were written by e-mail with pleas in relation to the animals. It's actually sad, we have to make a mea culpa for it, that we've considered the animals as a business for 200 years. With the proposal we improved those errors and with mutual agreement in committee we went even further. The recognition that animals have sensitivities and biological needs, and the need to deal with animals in a humane and caring manner, is a good thing. Mr Van Hecke, I shall come back to your final point. You asked if we could have made the adjustments beyond the party boundaries if the government had not been in current cases. Now, the proof of the pudding is in the eating, let's get to that pudding as soon as possible. In any case, we will be delighted and enthusiastically adopting the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u136	Mr President, everyone is interested in property law. This branch of law has existed since 1804. It was certainly timely to update and adapt to the twenty-first century. The PTB is pleased with this particular advance in animal welfare. We have supported the amendment to Article 3.52, which formally recognises that animals are not objects. Animals are primarily living beings with sensitivity, which we want to treat with respect. We have always been in favour of a coherent policy on animal welfare, whether it be animal husbandry, laboratory or company. Our group all too often observes that where the logic of profit prevails, the welfare of animals is caught. As drafted, the Civil Code therefore agrees with Article 13 of the European Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which states that animals are sensitive beings. It also agrees with the animal welfare legislation produced by the Brussels-Capital Region and the Walloon Region, which gives animals a similar status. As for the trust, we oppose the introduction or generalization, to be quite accurate, of a new uncertain legal construction, whose surplus value is not clear. This instrument is also considered highly appreciated by tax havens. That is why we have supported in committee an amendment to remove it from this code, and we continue to argue that it is not appropriate. A small reservation, however: we regret that this text remains very illegible. By illegible, I mean it was prepared by and for specialists. This is, however, the Civil Code, which is the basic code for all interactions between individuals. If there's a code that needs to be accessible, it's that one. We believe that it is essential for all citizens to be able to read and understand the law, to apply it among themselves and to avoid, as far as possible, recourse to justice. This subject covers issues such as neighbourhood disorders or co-ownership and therefore concerns all those who purchase an apartment. This is not only for notaries, surveyors and project promoters. It is somewhat undemocratic to write the text in such a technical, woody and jargon-filled way. I asked in committee that language be clearer and accessible to everyone. That has not been heard and it is very regrettable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u137	Mr President, if what Mr Van Hecke says is true, the vote will survive us soon, because that is what it means, it will prove that this is indeed a good piece of work. I'm only trying to get in the middle of this for a very short time. Plenty of colleagues have already demonstrated the essence of a number of issues. I think it is appropriate for our group to thank the authors and the experts who have worked on this text, as well as the colleagues in the committee and the people who have come to the hearings. They have indeed made this piece better. What is now before us, as Mr Verherstraeten said earlier, can be used as a good example of how the work can be done in Parliament. Especially because of the interaction with non-Parliamentarians and the experts who have worked on this. I would like to make one more point of substance. There are so many aspects of this code that we have not mentioned in this plenary but which can be important in people's daily lives. There are important things in this. Animal welfare has been mentioned several times. My only comment is that we have removed the chapter "fiducie" from the original design. That's not so obvious. It is probably more difficult to remove a full chapter if there is a government, Mr Van Hecke. I believe it was common sense to remove this chapter. I very much agreed with Mr D'Haese's arguments in committee. Unlike him, I hope it's more likely not to come back or come back. In any case, thank you very much to all who cooperated and for the way in which.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u138	Mr President, on behalf of my group, I would simply like to stress the importance of the work done by the Group of Experts in drafting the reform of property law. Thank them for that. This far-reaching reform makes it possible to incorporate property law into modernity and to be able to rely on the law, which has not been the case for many years, as the jurisprudence had changed the subject matter, but made it extremely difficult for practitioners to do so. I would also like to thank the work of the House of Commons, which has produced an important, high-quality legal note that has helped the experts refine their work. My group will enthusiastically vote for this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u139	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am very much in line with what has been said by my colleague. I am not going to be long, since a lot of arguments have been raised. But I would like to make it clear that my group is of course fully in agreement with this bill, which was, indeed, the subject of important legal work already ahead of the Property Law Reform Commission under the authority of Professors Lecocq and Sagaert. The reform undertaken meets a threefold need: the transparency and legibility of our law, legal certainty and the necessary modernization of this famous book 3. Two very concrete examples that made this modernization really indispensable can be mentioned. First, the fact that the laws on surface law and on the right of emphyteosis have not been amended since their entry into force in 1825, as well as the right of usufruct envisaged in the Napoleonic Civil Code of 1804 in terms of contractual and often real estate usufruct, which during the twentieth century underwent many rather profound changes in the law of succession. Secondly, the status of animals. This point has been raised by some of my colleagues; it is essential. We are indeed happy to see animals not as things, but as beings with sensitivity and biological needs. Not only because my group was carrying this amendment in a bill, which had already been tabled under the previous legislature, but also because we are thus complying with the Treaty of Lisbon, which describes animals held and used by people as sensitive beings. It will now be necessary to ensure – as indicated in our proposal for a law – that the appropriation of animals will always be carried out in accordance with the provisions on sale and rent provided for in the Civil Code, but also by the rules laid down by the competent authorities, in other words the federated entities, in the field of animal protection. The considerable legislative work that has been carried out by the Legal Service of the House – which I thank – on the articles of the bill before us deserves to be very much welcomed. No doubt, therefore, that the incorporation of Book 3 into the Civil Code will make it more adaptable to the society of the twenty-first century.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u140	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u141	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (173/9) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (173/9) The title has been amended by the commission in "Proposition of a law on Book 3 of the Civil Code ". The title was changed by the committee to "law proposal containing book 3 'Goederen' of the Civil Code'. The bill has 40 articles. The bill has 40 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u142	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u143	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Katja Gabriels, Egbert Lachaert, Goedele Liekens, Philippe Goffin, Els Van Hoof, Nawal Farih, Sophie De Wit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u144	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u145	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u146	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be very brief. There are, however, some comments about the bill. We all know the polygraph today. That's a polygraph that's already being used in investigations today. Today, however, there is no legal basis for its use. This bill is trying to provide that legal basis. After all, today's work is carried out by sending letters. The fear is that this will not guarantee or violate the rights of the defence. Today, the proposal itself responds. After all, the evidence that the polygraph delivers will never be the only evidence. In this way, the main criticism has been met. The important thing is that the polygraph, first of all, will not be the only evidence. Secondly, its use provides legal certainty. Today, the polygraph is already being used, but its use has no legal basis. That is what we are trying to do with this legislative proposal. So it is a step in the right direction. The proposal has been worked on and worked on. There have been many comments and opinions on them. We will therefore support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u147	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am taking the floor to explain why my group will abstain from this bill to regulate the use of polygraphs, more commonly known as lie detectors. We have said this during the debates that were held in committee: we were pleased that Parliament was taking up this issue in order to regulate an existing practice. Indeed, the polygraph has been used for many years while being regulated only by a circular dated 13 February 2003. Like practitioners, we are in favour of a more appropriate legal framework than a circular. However, while the definition of a legal framework is a welcome step forward, it is still necessary to define what framework. You will have understood this, and that is where the damage is and where our abstention is justified. In the legal framework proposed to us today, there are three important pitfalls: the first, in terms of definition; the second, in terms of rights of defence; and the third, in terms of the law of evidence. In terms of definition, first of all, because paradoxically the polygraph is not a lie detector. This formulation, as well as the definition proposed by the authors, is inappropriate for the simple reason that the polygraph does not detect anything and does not constitute, in order to take up the definition contained in the bill submitted to your sagacity, a technique for verifying "the veracity of the statements". This device does not measure the veracity of the statements, it only measures physiological reactions, reactions of the human body, and does nothing else. It is not intended to verify the veracity of the statements. The proposed definition therefore gives the tool an inaccurate scope.I close this semantic parenthesis, which is not without importance. In terms of rights of defence, then, I shall decline this point into two elements: one general and the other specific. In fact, the polygraph test is nothing more than a hearing in which a person answers many questions. This can take long minutes, even a few hours - some experts will tell you about an average of two to three hours. This session is the subject of an audiovisual recording, while physiological reactions are recorded by the apparatus that is the polygraph. As long as the recording of these physiological reactions takes place in the context of a hearing, we asked in committee – like the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking Bars – that all the guarantees of the rights of the defence apply to the polygraphic test. We wanted it to be legally considered as a hearing and to enjoy the guarantees of rigour. This implies the compulsory presence of a lawyer during the test and the possibility for the latter - as in the hearing - to intervene or even to interrupt the test if he considers it necessary in view of the interests of the person being heard. We must note that the amendments tabled to this effect have unfortunately been rejected. In particular, we have had to observe that, by an amendment adopted at second reading, confusion is now being introduced, at the expense of a category which has hitherto been the subject of clear and precise protection: minors over 16 years of age. Needless to say, a minor remains a minor, whether he or she is under 16 years of age or over, and as such, adequate and complementary safeguards must be clearly provided to those available to adults. But that is not the case. Finally, the last pitfall concerns the law of evidence. Indeed, the proposed text considers that the results of the polygraph serve as "means of proof". As such, I recall that the Order of Bars had questioned the very opportunity to include the technique in the Code of Criminal Investigation. As we said, the polygraph is part of a broader hearing framework. It records physiological reactions. It has been shown that innocent people can lie for acts that are totally alien to those accused of them. I take the example, which has been exposed to us, of an extramarital affair. On the other hand, someone with some control can deceive the polygraph. That is why we have proposed that this test be used, not as evidence - which, in the opinion of the experts itself, is not, but only as a means to shed light on the case, which is contributing to the evidence in a more general way. This was also rejected. In conclusion, an inaccurate definition, serious concerns about the rights of the defence and a discordance between the actual result of the polygraphic test and the consequences to be given to it, these are the main reasons, ladies and gentlemen, for which we cannot support this text. If we agree that the polygraph is a useful tool, raising it to the level of evidence, not enclosing it with the necessary guarantees, it is undeniably taking the risk of being exposed to miscarriage of justice. In the end, it would be a justice of the kind to which we adhere and to which we aspire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u148	Mr President, we are pleased that legislation is finally in place. Until now, the use of the polygraph has only been regulated by means of conversion letters and the case law of the Court of Cassation. The question came from the European Court of Human Rights. The present bill is very non-binding for the Flemish Interest. The Order of Flemish Baries, which issued a press release yesterday, feels the same way. According to them, the rights of the defence are not guaranteed. I explain myself and quote Article 3 (4) of the bill: "The polygraph test is done on a voluntary basis. No legal effect shall be attached to a person's refusal to participate. The test may be interrupted at any time. There is no legal effect on this either." For the Flemish interest, that actually amounts to an empty box. It is a legal regulation to meet Europe. The fact that the results of a polygraph test are not infallible is a fact. This will be taken into account in the taking of evidence. For this reason, too, I quote Article 3, Paragraph 10: "The results of the polygraph test should only be taken into account as supporting evidence for other means of proof." According to the Flemish Interest, the results of such a polygraph test can be a perfect addition to other means of proof. Look at the numerous psychologists and psychiatrists who contradict each other. A polygraph test can clarify this. The fact that the tests cannot be enforced in any way or in any situation seems to us a missed opportunity. I'm just thinking about emergency situations and terror threats. Sometimes, unfortunately, reality is beyond fiction and a more far-reaching proposal could have been made. Also the Order of Flemish Barries from some concerns, including the rights of the defence, which are not sufficiently guaranteed. In order to respond to these concerns and to make this legislative proposal more coherent and complete, the Flemish Interest is tabling seven amendments, which I will now briefly explain. I can take the discussion of the first and third amendments together. Those two amendments concern the people who may be in charge of applying for a polygraph test. The King's Attorney and the investigating judge are responsible for conducting the investigation, or the judicial investigation. The same applies, however, to the Federal Prosecutor and the Attorney General. The federal prosecutor is in charge of heavy files, including human trafficking and terrorism. Among other things, the Attorney General is responsible for the file of the Gang of Nivelles. That is why it is important for our group that these actors should also be given the opportunity to carry out this research without having to pass this on to the investigating judge first. In this way there can be immediate action and there is no loss of time to make the necessary determinations. Hence the amendment to add to Article 3, § 2, paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 after the word "Kings" "the Federal Prosecutor or the Attorney General." As for the second amendment, when conducting a criminal investigation, information is in some cases provided by tippers and/or apologists. The content of the information provided may sometimes be of great importance and determining for the further development of the investigation. At least the possibility of suggesting tippers and apologists to submit to a polygraph test should be provided. The bill contains the possibility to take a polygraph test of suspects, victims and witnesses. It is therefore only an obvious fact to include tippers and apologists in this list. It is often about crucial information, information in which regrettants can have a great interest in creating another truth in order to get a reduction in punishment. A possibility must be created to control these matters. Regrets should also be given the opportunity to introduce themselves to a polygraph test. Now that's not possible. Our amendment states that the test could only be about the information they provide, so not about everything that the dossier entails. Hence the question of adding the following words in Article 3 (2), first paragraph: "In the cases in which they have provided information, tippers and apologists may also be asked to submit to a polygraph test." I come to the fourth amendment. As mentioned in Article 3 (2), second paragraph, a request for a polygraph test may be rejected according to the state of the investigation. The decision shall state the reasons on which it is based. For the sake of clarity, we propose to add that no appeal can be made. Then the text is also clearer. If there were an appeal, while the state of affairs in the file had not changed, it would amount to the same decision. This is evident, but by describing it in the law, it is pro forma and it is clearer that there is no appeal at that time and that the application is simply rejected. Hence the proposal to insert Article 3 (2), second paragraph, after the word 'decision', the words 'not open to appeal'. The fifth amendment goes on to do so. It is not because such a question is rejected that a request would be permanently rejected six months later in the same file, if another request for a polygraph test is submitted. It may be that certain factors or evolutions in the investigation ensure that the file has evolved and that the relevant ground for refusal is no longer available. For this reason, it is appropriate to allow the persons whose application was rejected to make a further application after the expiry of a period of six months from the date of the previous decision on the rejection of the prosecutor or investigating judge. If the prosecutor or investigating judge did not reply to the first or previous application, the six-month period may start one month after the initial or previous application was addressed to the prosecutor or investigating judge. The second paragraph of Article 3 (2) is therefore supplemented by the following: "After the expiry of a period of six months from the date of the initial or previous decision of the prosecutor of the King, the federal prosecutor, the attorney general or investigating judge concerning the refusal of the application for a polygraph test, the persons mentioned in paragraph 2 of Article 3 may apply again to those who rejected their application. If it had failed to reply to the initial or previous application, the six-month period shall start one month after the initial or previous application has been addressed to them." In the sixth amendment we come to the categories of people whose polygraph tests cannot be carried out: pregnant women, minors under the age of 16 and persons within 48 hours of their effective deprivation of liberty. The first paragraph of Article 3 (5) provides that prior to each polygraph test an alcohol, drug or medicinal product test and psychological or psychiatric examination may be carried out for the persons to be subjected to the test. Persons with physical or medical conditions whose effects of their illness may have a certain impact on the results of the polygraph test are not mentioned in this article. Nor is it possible for this category of persons to carry out a medical examination, as mentioned in paragraph 1 of Article 3 (5). It is justifiable that people with a heart disorder, a respiratory disorder or with certain paralysis symptoms should also be added to the category of persons for whom a polygraph test cannot be performed. These medical conditions have a direct effect on the various registrations carried out when the polygraph test is taken. Since the medical conditions mentioned above are not always visible to the naked eye, they may escape the application of Article 3 (5), third paragraph, which provides that the polygraphist may at any time stop the polygraph test if he doubts the mental or physical health or condition of the person concerned and must enjoy a separate exemption status. It is the logic itself of course that the medical condition should be demonstrated by a doctor's certificate. Article 3 (3) should therefore be supplemented by a fourth indent: "Persons suffering from a physical or medical condition previously attested by an expert who may have an impact on the results of the polygraph test'. The last amendment is actually the only one of the seven amendments that I have now tabled and which I have not explained in committee. The third indent of Article 3 (4) (4) states that the person to be subjected to a polygraph test shall be informed orally and before the start of the test that, if he is assisted by a lawyer, his lawyer may follow the test from the tracking room, without, however, being allowed to intervene directly during the actual test or to interrupt the test. The Flemish Interest shares the concerns of the OVB and considers that the above provision could lead to insufficient protection of the rights of the defence and breach of the principle of equality. Specific reference could be made to the Salduz legislation, in particular with regard to prior confidential consultation with a lawyer as well as the right to the assistance of a lawyer during the taking of the polygraph test. Since Article 3 (4), third paragraph provides that the person subject to an informed polygraph test must consent by signing a report of consent, it is appropriate that the person who is requested to carry out a polygraph test prior to signing the report of consent should be entitled to a confidential consultation with his lawyer. For this reason, we propose that the third indent of Article 3 (4) be replaced by the following: "If he is assisted by a lawyer, he shall have the right to a confidential consultation with his lawyer prior to the signature of the report of consent provided for in Article 3 (4), third paragraph. In the event of signature of the report of consent, the person who will be subjected to the polygraph test shall be entitled to assistance from his lawyer during the entire duration of the purchase of the polygraph test." We hope that these amendments will be adopted across party boundaries. It is important to be able to put forward coherent and complete legislation so that it can be properly used in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u149	Mr President, this proposal to introduce the polygraph has already come a long way. It dates back to the previous legislature. I recall that Mr Nele Lijnen strongly supported this at the time. We should therefore like to thank Open Vld for the constructive cooperation in producing this text. It has been taken into account the strong amendment both by our group and by the Justice Department. This is not a simple matter. That's what it turned out to be. However, despite the complexity, the lack of legislation is being resolved today. On the grounds there was a large gap here. The polygraph test is particularly important in vice cases. Given the importance our group attaches to the fight against violence against women and sexual violence, we have made efforts to regulate the use of the polygraph in the most legally binding way possible. Three things are important to us. Firstly, that we maximise the protection of the persons concerned. Secondly, as regards the accuracy of the apparatus used to carry out the test, the necessary results are achieved and the criteria are laid down by a Royal Decree. Finally, our group considers it very important that the results of a polygraph test should never be considered alone or can count as decisive evidence, but always serve as supporting evidence with other means of proof. That is why we are happy to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u150	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the Members who will support this proposal. The bill has already come a long way. Changes have been made in response to various opinions, also following a second reading, because we also want legally correct texts. However, I would like to give an overview, as the author. Today, the legislative framework for polygraph testing is in place. These tests are already being carried out and used in investigations today, but, as Mrs De Wit said, they are being carried out on the basis of letters dated 2003. Although our country has been progressive in the use of technology, it was less so when it comes to providing a legal basis. Taking these tests on the basis of an instrument that is not a formal law is perfectly legal, but by submitting it to Parliament we are opting for a clear legal framework. We believe that this will provide greater legal certainty and will also meet European standards if there is a significant impact on private life, which could indeed be the case with such a test. A formal law is required by the ECHR, among other things. In addition, in recent years, not only the polygraphists have called for a legislative framework, but also the representatives of the police, the P Committee and the magistrates have called for this framework to be introduced. This proposal was indeed already tabled in the previous legislature. There were hearings at the time. For lack of time, we were unable to proceed to a vote at that time. We are glad that this can be done today. The lie detector, as it is commonly called, is a wrong term. There are for the polygraph both strong fores and opponents, believers and non-believers. We do not need to convince those who support it anymore. That goes without saying. However, I would like to give the opponents some reasons why we took the initiative and why it is important. In his statement, Mr Aouasti referred to our explanatory statement, in which we clarified that the term'lie detector' is wrong because the apparatus does not distinguish lies and truth, but can be merely a means of supporting evidence in criminal matters. So we're not inventing anything new. The test is already being used today and has already proved its success. We have built in several checks-and-balances with the legislative proposal due to the various adjustments and amendments. The test can only be done on a voluntary basis, which is important. Those who take a test will also be informed in detail, both orally and in writing. The person concerned may also interrupt the test at any time. The person concerned may also simply refuse to take a test. In either case, no legal effect can be attached to it. So there can be no admission of guilt in it either. There is certainly also provision for assistance from a lawyer. Suspects, witnesses or victims may be asked to take a test. Those persons can also "ask for their own test." When a polygraph test is carried out spontaneously, the polygraph test is immediately discontinued and an official hearing is carried out, with all the relevant guarantees, including those laid down by the Salduz Act. I would also like to mention the last amendment that Mrs Bury has just discussed. The Court of Cassation itself has already ruled that the test does not infringe the rights of defence. We therefore believe that the amendment tabled is superfluous. It is already stated in our text that the person subject to a test has the right to an attorney's assistance. Such assistance shall include the possibility for the lawyer to be present at the reading and signing of the minutes of consent, i.e. in advance in the pretest. He can thus also follow the preparation and actual course of the polygraph test in the following chamber. There is therefore already a possibility of prior consultation. During the test that is simply not possible. The space shall be neutral and without influencing factors in order for the test to be conducted correctly. We also understand, of course, that the polygraph test can never be the only evidence in a case. The test results can only be used to support other evidence. In addition, categories of persons are also excluded to participate in the test. These include pregnant women, minors under the age of 16 and persons deprived of their freedom for the first 48 hours after their deprivation of liberty. For minors over 16 years of age, we provide for additional protection: they must sign the consent report, always together with their lawyer. So if their lawyer or themselves refuse to do it, the test cannot take place. The amendments were made through our amendment; on that principle for 16+, we only discussed legal arguments after the second reading, in order to make the text more legally correct. In the past, people with heart disease were excluded from the test, but the current techniques have evolved in such a way that it is no longer an obstacle. The responsibility to decide whether someone is able to take a test lies with the polygraphist, who has to draw up a report on it. When it comes to the so-called lie detector, better the polygraph test, skeptics always question the reliability. However, we were given sufficient information and data in the hearings on the percentages of accuracy of the test. Some speak of 95%, but we refer to a prestigious study by the US National Research Council, which, based on 37 laboratory experiments and field studies, was 80% reliable. As I have just said, and this does not happen much in legislation that is yet to be adopted, the use of the polygraph has already been authorised by the Court of Cassation in criminal investigations, in so far as the person concerned voluntarily cooperates in it and can withdraw at any time. In this way, according to the Court of Cassation, the right to remain silent is not denied. The presumption of innocence is also not ignored, and justice from 2006 and 2013 confirm that. So we have taken into account all the guarantees in the legislative proposal that is being put to the vote today. In view of the fact that the bill has been drawn up at the request of people from the field, both the police and the justice system, and is incorporating all kinds of guarantees, we are convinced that the text is a balanced whole in which no one's rights are violated and the truth and the resolution of cases can only benefit from it. Once again, I would like to thank those Members who support and will support this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u151	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the draft law is to provide a legal basis, a legal basis demanded by the professional sector and by the European Court of Human Rights. Hearings were held in 2018. In the light of these hearings, it became clear that the bill had not yet been finalized. This is a police practice accepted by case law. Opponents of the texts, including lawyers, wonder whether legislation in this area is useful and necessary, as they consider that there are many controversies on the question of the reliability of this technology. If the bill is passed, there is a great risk that it will be given intrinsic validation not only in the minds of the judicial and police authorities, but also in the minds of public opinion. Is it not dangerous to rely too easily on this technology? Consideration should also be given to the fact that psychological judicial expertise by qualified professionals is not included as such in the Code of Criminal Investigation. Several lawyers who are members of the AVOCATS.BE criminal commission have themselves been able to see the inherent lack of reliability of the polygraph in several recent criminal cases. It also appeared that the polygraph test is not legally considered as a hearing within the meaning of Article 47bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation. However, this is a full hearing. And Belgian and European legislation expressly wanted to grant guarantees to the person interviewed (cf. the Salduz Act) allowing in particular the lawyer to remind the woman concerned, during the hearing, of her right to silence. The purpose of the lawyer's presence at the hearing is to enable a check to be made on the respect of the right of the person not to accuse himself or herself, whether or not to answer or not to remain silent, of the treatment accorded to the person questioned during the hearing, in particular with regard to the manifest exercise of unlawful pressure or coercion. Although the probative limits of the polygraph test are well defined, introducing it into the Code of Criminal Investigation gives it a place that can give rise to confusion, without any guarantees of reliability. For these reasons, we therefore find it difficult to give our voice to this text. That is why we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u152	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, including the use of the polygraph as one of the means of legal evidence that can be used in a criminal investigation is, in itself, nothing revolutionary, since the proposal is, in fact, intended to mark in the law a practice that already exists, but which has so far been governed only by circulars of prosecutors general and by case law. However, this practice is becoming increasingly common. It would have been used more than 6,300 times between 2001 and April 2019, so a clear legal framework was needed. This is a specific request made by Committee P, to which the Association of Investigative Judges has expressed its support. Belgium also has a long-standing expertise in this field, since polygraphs are now carried out by six duly trained polygraphists working within the central federal police force, specifically in the behavioural sciences of the central management of the technical and scientific police. This is how my colleagues from the Open Vld tabled their bill for the first time in 2017 already, under the previous legislature. This proposal resulted in expert hearings, which highlighted the appropriate benchmarks. The question now is whether the framework provided for in the new bill provides sufficient evidence to respect the subtle and necessary balance between the needs of criminal investigation and the reliability of the results obtained, and the rights of the defence. I would like to make it clear at the outset that my group is in favour of using polygraphs as such. That is why I have co-signed several amendments in committee, including those which have made it clear that the polygraphic test can only be carried out if there are serious indications that punishable acts constitute a crime or a crime. Similarly, these co-signed amendments provide that the results of the polygraphic test can only be taken into consideration as evidence corroborating other evidence. I have co-signed these amendments because the polygraph has already proved its usefulness in cases where the evidence is particularly difficult to provide, including cases of sexual offences. It is not a question of providing evidence as such, since the test results always have a margin of error. Statistics show that 65 to 70 per cent of the people tested are telling the truth. But the aim is to guide the criminal investigation by corroborating the evidence already gathered. It is for this reason that the principle of subsidiarity was enshrined in the draft law. The polygraph can never be the purpose or end point of the investigation. The evidence must be supplemented by other elements. Other fundamental principles have also been enshrined in the bill, such as the judge's discretion as to the probative value to be attached to the test result, or the voluntary cooperation of the person concerned, so that the refusal to submit to it will not result in legal effects and cannot be considered as evidence of guilt. Similarly, the test may be interrupted at any time, with no legal effect. In addition, the proposal states that the person must be in good physical and mental conditions. It goes without saying that a mythologist, a schizophrenic or a person who is under the influence of drugs or alcohol cannot participate in such a test. However, two points in the text are fundamentally problematic, which obliges us to abstain from voting on the whole text just now. The first point is that the person can only be assisted by his or her lawyer before and after the test, but not during the test. In any case, the lawyer will not be at his side, but in a management room, and therefore will not be able to intervene directly during the test or interrupt it. All of this stems from a controversy that ultimately exists about the very nature of polygraph, whether or not it is a hearing within the meaning of Article 47bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation, which provides for the assistance of a lawyer. In this respect, we agree with the opinion given both by AVOCATS.BE and by the Association of Investigative Judges that the polygraphic test constitutes a full hearing, during which substantial questions concerning the facts of the case are put to the person concerned, to which the latter is called to answer, so that all the guarantees which both the European and Belgian legislators expressly intended to grant to the person interviewed must also preside over the conduct of the polygraph hearing. In this regard, during his hearing in the Justice Committee in April 2019, Mr Cornelis, who is the representative of the Department of Behavioural Sciences of the Federal Police, himself stressed that "polygraphing can only be applied through the voluntary cooperation of the person, with the maintenance of all his rights under the Franchimont and Salduz laws". As pointed out by the Association of Investigative Judges, the impossibility of the lawyer interrupting the test poses a real constitutional problem in that a normal hearing could be interrupted at the request of a lawyer, but not in the case of a polygraph hearing. The second point which is fundamentally problematic is the possibility of submitting a minor, from the age of 16, to a polygraph test. As Yves Liegeois of the College of Attorneys General pointed out during his hearing in April 2019, the polygraphic test is not recommended for minors. If it were to be provided for, however, in the law, the assistance of a lawyer should then be compulsory. However, despite the fact that the minor cannot renounce the assistance of a lawyer, the bill considers that the signature of a report of consent by the minor and his or her lawyer would be sufficient to deprive the minor of his or her right to the assistance of a lawyer at the time of the hearing. In our view, such a mechanism is contrary to the reading of the rights of the child by the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child that, in order for children to be properly heard, States have an obligation to provide them with adequate legal assistance, including through lawyers. The Committee also states that the minor, because of his or her greatest vulnerability, must be accompanied by a lawyer at all stages of the judicial process and not by some of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u153	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u154	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (577/11) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (577/11) The Court of Justice of the European Communities decided to stay proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Communities for a preliminary ruling on the application of Articles 85 and 86 of the EC Treaty to the Court of Justice of the European Communities (now, after amendment, Articles 85 and 86 of the EC Treaty) and to the Court of Justice of the European Communities (now, after amendment, Articles 85 and 86 of the EC Treaty). The title in Dutch was changed by the Committee in the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure as regards the use of the polygraph." The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u155	Annex V.Part • 18 years old Marijke Dillen cs (577/12) • 19 years old Marijke Dillen cs (577/12) • 20 years old Marijke Dillen cs (577/12) • Marijke Dillen cs (577/12) 22 Marijke Dillen cs (577/12) • 23 • Marijke Dillen cs (577/12) • Marijke Dillen cs (577/12)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u156	Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u157	Sustained: the amendments and Article 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u158	Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 2 and 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u159	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted, and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u160	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (863/3) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (863/3) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u161	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since this is an exceptional procedure, the President has asked me to present the report orally. I'd be happy to. The Constitutional and Institutional Renewal Committee discussed this motion at its meetings on 8 and 22 January 2019. Ms Özlem Özen, our President, first recalled that by letter of 27 November 2019, the President of the Flemish Parliament submitted to the Chamber a motion for a declaration of discrimination for ideological and philosophical reasons, applying Article 4 of the Law of 3 July 1971 on the classification of members of the legislative Chambers into language groups and laying down various provisions on cultural councils for the Dutch cultural community and for the French cultural community. It reads as follows: "A reasoned motion, signed by at least one quarter of the members of a cultural council and put to the table after the report was submitted and before the final vote in the public assembly, may declare that the provisions it designates in a draft or proposal of a decree pending before that cultural council constitute discrimination on ideological and philosophical grounds." This started the so-called ideological and philosophical alarm procedure. It means that a college composed of the Presidents of the Flemish and French Community Parliaments, as well as the Presidents of the Chamber and Senate, must assess the motion on its admissibility and, in the event that the motion is declared admissible, refer to Chamber and Senate. The legislative chambers shall then rule independently on the merits of the case. They are therefore expressing their views on the alleged ideological or philosophical disadvantage. The examination of the draft or proposal of a decree shall then remain suspended until each legislative chamber has declared the motion unfounded. In other words, if one of the two chambers decides on the merits, the Flemish Parliament will not be able to re-examine the proposal. In the present case, the motion concerns the proposal for a decree amending the Decree of 7 July 2017 on the subsidy and recognition of socio-cultural adult work. The Presidents of the Chamber, the Senate, the Parliament of the French Community and the Flemish Parliament, sitting as a college, declared the motion admissible on 4 December 2019. The decision of the College was transmitted to the Chamber by the President of the Flemish Parliament on 5 December 2019. In accordance with Article 164, No. 3 of the Rules of Procedure were sent to the Constitutional and Institutional Renewal Committee, which is to report to the plenary. The plenary shall then deliver its opinion within 60 days of the date on which the motion was transmitted to it by the College. The deadline will therefore expire on Monday 3 February. The last useful plenary session will be on Thursday 30 January, so today. The chairman of our committee has rightly pointed out that this is an exceptional procedure. There is only one application case known in 1985, in which the committee discussed the substance of the motion. At the end of the discussion, a proposal for a decision was adopted in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities in order to finally declare the motion unfounded. The same thing happened in the Senate at the time. However, these committee decisions were never dealt with in the plenary sessions of the Chamber and Senate, because the Chambers were dissolved before this could happen. The chairman also said that the committee would work as it did in 1985. The motion was then discussed in substance, possibly after a number of introductory remarks. At the end of this discussion, a proposal for a decision was tabled which was discussed, amended and put to a vote. The committee approved the proposal at its meeting on 8 January. At the end of the substantive discussion, it was also decided that two members would prepare two proposals for a decision: one on the basis of which the motion submitted and one on the basis of which the motion submitted was rejected as unfounded. Prior to the substantive discussion of the transferred motion, several members commented on the topicality of the ideological and philosophical alarm procedure and on the compatibility of the procedure with our current federal state structure. Mr De Roover pointed out the absurd and undemocratic nature of the procedure. He considered that the House should not discuss the motion because the rule contained in the Law of 3 July 1971 is no longer of this time and does not take sufficient account of the institutional evolution that our country has experienced since then. Meanwhile, the Constitutional Court was established, which has the power to rule on the matters now before the committee. In other words, according to Mr De Roover, there is now a proper judicial procedure that allows us to assess the alleged discrimination and to take a legally binding decision on it. Mr Barbara Pas endorsed Mr De Roover's position. Mr Calvo pointed out that the exceptional nature of the procedure was no reason not to apply it. He pointed out that a substantial part of the Flemish people's representatives felt that the proposal for a decree could be discriminatory on the basis of ideological or philosophical beliefs and that the College of Presidents of Parliament had declared the motion admissible, albeit with equal votes. Mr Hedebouw felt that the discussion of the motion was part of the tasks of the federal representatives and that it was therefore logical for the Chamber to issue an opinion. Mr Dewael agreed with the speakers who felt that the ideological and philosophical alarm procedure was no longer in line with the current institutional structure of our country and with the current relations between the liberal and Christian beliefs. He suggested that the committee should seek advice from a number of constitutional specialists, a suggestion to which Mr Burton and Mr Bertels had subscribed. Mr Aouasti noted that the alarm procedure was reformed by the Law of 16 July 1993 supplementing the federal state structure, i.e. following the establishment of the Constitutional Court. The 1993 Law did indeed abolish certain provisions of the Law of 3 July 1971, but in no way did it abolish the procedure in question. According to our colleague, its provisions do apply. In connection with the substantive assessment of the motion submitted, Mr De Roover stressed that the proposal for a decree could not possibly relate to discrimination on ideological and philosophical grounds. The proposal introduces a criterion relating to ethnic and cultural origin. Mr Calvo felt that the proposal for a decree gives too much scope to the government and contains unclear provisions. As stated in the motion, discriminatory criteria for subsidy are introduced. Mr Hedebouw agreed with the position, which was contested by Mr Pas. I have myself stressed that the proposed regulation in the decree proposal is not an attack on the socio-cultural sector, nor on ethnic-cultural organisations. In practice, it appears that these associations actively cooperate with associations outside their ethnic and cultural circles. They are examples of civic participation because they offer hundreds of thousands of newcomers opportunities to better connect with the rich social offerings in Flanders, not only socially but also in the fields of education, employment, culture, sport and youth work. Mr Bertels stressed that the proposal for a decree carries a high risk of discrimination. The definitions introduced are flawed. According to Mr Bertels, this risk of discrimination is further enhanced by the wide power given to the Minister to decide whether or not to grant a grant. Mr Aouasti reminded us that all the states and the federal state must take on a common premise, namely the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. No one can benefit from state aid if they do not comply. He also wondered whether or not the proposed regulation could lead to discrimination on a philosophical or ideological level. In order to be able to make a reasoned decision, he considered it useful to examine what those concepts meant. Several experts could be heard. At our sitting on 22 January, two motions were tabled: one by Mr Dewael for the unfounded statement, and one by Mr Calvo, for the justification of the motion. I summarise the main arguments put forward in Mr Dewael's motion. The ideological and philosophical alarm procedure is no longer today. It is up to the Constitutional Court to assess this form of discrimination. Reforms tend to give rise to some concern, but this unrest is not duly supported by legal evidence. It is not for the Court to rule on an infringement of Article 23 of the Constitution. It would be a bad precedent if the Court were to replace the competent decreer on that point. Ethnic-cultural origin must not be equated with ideological or philosophical beliefs. Finally, he stated that the motive that the Flemish Government could take discriminatory decisions on the basis of the proposed change of decree is not sufficient. One can always appeal against a government decision to the Council of State. It will then judge, and not the Chamber of Representatives. Mr Calvo explained his motion. His main arguments were as follows. The new eligibility conditions introduced by the decree proposal, namely that organisations do not merely revert to ethnic-cultural origin and combat segregation, represent a significant risk of breach of Articles 10 and 11 of our Constitution. This condition in itself already constitutes an unequal treatment. Mr Calvo also stated that the Decree infringed the principle of equality between associations and discriminated exclusively against associations organised on the basis of ethnic and cultural origin. The concepts of "refolding" and "ethnic-cultural origin" are not defined. In addition, the proposal for a decree confers on the Flemish Government the power to decide whether those conditions have been fulfilled, which can thus itself decide whether that criterion has been met. The new condition also entails a significant risk of breach of Article 23 of the Constitution. Article 23 of the Constitution imposes a standstill obligation on the legislator as to the level of protection afforded by the legislation in force. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee then decided by 9 votes to 7 to take Mr Dewael's decision as the basis for further discussion. The whole of Mr Dewael's decision was adopted without amendment by 7 votes to 5 and 4 abstentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u162	I would like to thank Mr Briers for his report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u163	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, may I thank the reporter for his detailed report? That makes it possible to go a little bit more succinctly on a number of points, which no one will regret, I suppose. I would just like to point out that this is indeed a special discussion. We all feel catapulted back to the early 1970s, which for some means that they have to attend the debate even at the prenatal stage. We are institutionally in a completely different phase. The law that leads us to our discussion here dates back to 1971. Then we were at the beginning of a long series of state reforms, which have not yet come to an end. At that time and in the logic of the constitutional context of that time, there was perhaps something to say for that legislation. There was a certain amount of protection for, I quote, 'ideological and philosophical minorities in the north and the south of the country'. Maybe I can also say that in 1971 the Arbitration Court, meanwhile renamed the Constitutional Court, already existed, but that it was not until the third state reform in 1988-1989 that that institution was given the power to review laws and decrees against the prohibition of discrimination contained in Article 11 of the Constitution. It means that, in the meantime, there is an orderly and different way of even challenging and challenging any discriminatory decrees or acts of a government as a citizen. The survival of the rule is actually an anomaly, which has absolutely no reason to exist anymore. I am therefore very pleased, Mr President, that you have played an active role in the discussions. The report pointed out that there would be further hearings. It is not a question of hearings on the specific question that has been raised here, because it has already been voted on, and we will be able to conclude that process in due course. However, there will be hearings about the meaning and, above all, the senselessness of the survival of the article, which we hope will be able to refer to the museum as soon as possible. That argument alone is, in fact, sufficient to establish a position on the question of the opposition in the Flemish Parliament and not to go along with it. I would like to add three other elements. Firstly, there is no hierarchy between laws and decrees in this country. The equivalence between the federation and the Länder is actually being pushed aside de facto. This gives the impression that the Chamber would be a body suitable for some reason to judge decisions taken by our colleagues in the Länder. I believe that this is also intimately at odds with developments in this country and that we, as legislators, should be particularly cautious in this regard. The reporter has already referred to it, my opinion is that we should not have interfered in the whole matter. Secondly, in secondary order, it is said that the contested proposal of decree would conflict with the 1971 law on philosophical and ideological discrimination. At the time, in 1971, our colleagues devoted many discussions to this in the Committee and the Minister for Community Relations, none other than Mr Leo Tindemans, said the following when we discussed it in committee. I'm gonna take my paper, or I'm gonna have a hard time quoting it. On the question of what discrimination and non-discrimination in respect of beliefs mean, Mr Tindemans said: 'When one speaks of non-discrimination for ideological and philosophical reasons in the context of cultural autonomy, it is not therefore a question of political minorities or of linguistic minorities. This is indeed a question of discrimination in terms of philosophy." This means that, apart from the arguments I have raised, there is absolutely no ideological or philosophical discrimination here. Cultural origin can hardly be placed under that umbrella. Thirdly, it is not discrimination. The contested proposal of the Decree seeks to combat discrimination. It aims at associations that exclude citizens from participation because of their origin. The word "confidence" doesn't even occur here. We are not in 1984, but the newspeak remains alive when a proposal for a decree that is just targeting discriminatory associations is being challenged, because it would be discriminatory. That is, of course, the Umwertung aller Were, as I dare say in the third language of this country. Mr President, I am counting on hearings to be held. In this way we can amend this legislation, read: make it disappear. In the course of the debate, colleagues have taken the floor, such as Mr Calvo, who will hopefully come back and speak again, and Mr Hedebouw. They have given a very extensive exposé, but they have not answered any of the points I have put forward. Unfortunately, the alternative proposal tabled by Mr Calvo the following week did not respond to the arguments put forward. Then there was a vote that went very separately because the 12 Members who have spoken are all of the Dutch language roles. I don't think it's ever happened before that the 'one and indivisible' group of Ecolo-Green suddenly acted exclusively Flemish. It may be said that this is a coincidence, but I am not inclined to believe it. It was also striking that not Mr Hedebouw, but one of his Flemish colleagues was present at the vote. This de facto indicates that they themselves recognise that this is an exclusively Flemish matter. They sent only Flemish people's representatives to make their voices heard in the committee. Of course, this resulted in the same proportions as in the Flemish Parliament: 7 to 5. The four colleagues from MR and PS have literally and figuratively abstained. They have also justified this by saying that they should not interfere in this matter. I assume they will repeat that vote here, for which I thank them. I believe that this is the only correct attitude that has been expressed by a number of colleagues and myself in committee. I pay tribute to them for this, and I am particularly looking forward to the voting behaviour of colleagues from the PTB and Ecolo.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u164	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reporter has already mentioned the exceptional nature of the alarm procedure in question. Today we are part of a completely obsolete procedure. As the previous speaker said, this procedure dates back to 1970 when the three cultural communities were established. She dates back to the time that no bones were seen in federal patronization of the then very modest cultural communities. That law of 3 July 1971 is a relic of the unitary state that really is no longer of this time. Mr Bouchez may be very homesick about the unitary state, but in the meantime six state reforms have been introduced and decrees issued by the states have the same legal force as federal laws and are at the same level. It is therefore totally inappropriate for the Chamber to have to decide today on the content of the decrees of the Land Parliaments. Using the old procedure in such a way today is an unlawful interference in purely Flemish matters. It is a violation of the cultural autonomy of Flanders. It's just a passing of jurisdiction. The motion before us must, of course, be rejected as unfounded. It would have an important precedent if the opposite were to be the case. For us and for the two Flemish Presidents of Parliament, that question should not even have been in question today and should not have been declared admissible. The parties who have tabled the motion represent a quarter of the Flemings in the Flemish Parliament. With the old procedure they now ensure that the Chamber and Senate have to decide on a decree that covers 100% of Flemish powers. A small left-wing opposition in Flanders is calling for the help of the French-speaking people to oppose a Flemish-based policy in Flanders. That left-wing minority in the Flemish Parliament is obviously having a difficult time with democracy. She is shamefully abusing such an ideological alarm procedure, in order to try to make it right that she cannot make it at Flemish level. She tries to get her right, by lifting the case to the federal level in an attempt to involve the French-speaking left-wing majority. Sadly, that's a purely political game. An old procedure has been taken from below meters of dust purely to buy time. For in fact the battle has already been taken home: the deadline has expired. That change should have taken effect on 1 December so that it could serve as a basis for the grant applications for the period 2021-20125. All the policy plans have already been submitted. There was time until the end of last year. For all these policy plans, the current rules continue. I have heard in Mr Calvo's resolution and in the discussions about the decree, about the way in which the decree was dealt with in the Flemish Parliament, and so on. That may be an interesting discussion in the Flemish Parliament, but we certainly do not have to comment on it today. The motion tabled by Mr Calvo refers to so-called violations of Article 10, Article 11 and Article 23 of the Constitution. None of that is part of the alarm procedure. We should not even ask ourselves that question. Today, we have to vote only on Article 131 of the Constitution, on nothing more. We simply have to answer the question of whether there is discrimination for ideological and philosophical reasons. The previous speaker has already referred to it. It is then very useful to dive into the discussions and to see how this 1971 law came about. The introductory statement by the ministers at the time stated literally: "If an ideological and philosophical minority, that is not a minority of languages or a political minority, considers itself to be discriminated against, an authority must give a ruling." Tindemans has already been quoted here, it is a question of discrimination in terms of philosophy. Ethnic-cultural groups cannot be equated with a philosophy of life. They are not covered by the protection envisaged by the 1971 Law. If these ethnic-cultural groups are not covered by the protection of Article 131 of the Constitution and of that 1971 law, I really do not see how discrimination can exist. I have read Mr Calvo's motion three times. The authors show no discrimination whatsoever on philosophical and ideological grounds. They report that, on the basis of the decree, there could be discrimination by the Flemish Government in the future. No one will stop you from taking the necessary measures, if that were the case, and, for example, going to the Council of State. Colleagues, in conclusion, I find it particularly strange that the Left wants to propose that the respect of a number of acquired rights, basic values of our society, should be considered discriminatory, whereas those values for which the Left has often been involved in the barricades in the past and which, as far as I know, are not called into question by any philosophical or ideological approach. In no way has it been possible to demonstrate or clarify the ideological or philosophical nature of any of these fundamental principles. Can those who supported Calvo's motion perhaps explain to me what is to be done against these basic principles? What can be said about fundamental principles such as the right to freedom of expression, equality between men and women, the separation of Church and State, the provision of equal opportunities, the exclusion of discrimination and the fight against racism? Explain it to me. If it is the intention to break down all the values and values of our society, including the most fundamental ones, for a totally normal and worthless society, where total nihilism prevails, the only thing I can derive from it is that this is the intention, I can tell you that you will not find any supporter in the Flemish interest. We will certainly support the fact that this motion is not justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u165	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you the position of CD&V. In our view, it is not appropriate, or no longer appropriate, for the Federal Parliament to rule on or intervene in a Community competence. CD&V considers it important that every subsidised organisation in Flanders supports the fundamental rights and freedoms of our society. Of course, everyone is free to form an association of like-minded people, which is absolutely a constitutional right. However, it is difficult to blame a government for not supporting associations that are working and even fighting for the destruction of the foundations of our democratic pluralist rule of law. Supporting critical thinking is still a foundation of our active democracy, which we must never forget. The Flemish government agreement explicitly states: "We recognise the binding and emancipatory strength of the socio-cultural work and its importance for the formation of a society concerned, with a collective shared identity, based on a common basis of values and fundamental rights and freedoms. These organisations should contribute to the emancipation of people and groups and to the strengthening of a democratic, inclusive and sustainable society. In order to express this even more strongly, we are adapting the current decree on socio-cultural work to emphasize this and making both of them a priority condition for subsidy. Initiatives that revolve around ethnic-cultural origin are no longer subsidised." This is right. We have to go the other way. I can speak from my own experience, by the way. I chaired the diversity committee of the city of Ghent in which organisations, institutions and companies are represented and sit together to address the diversity problems. The work of this committee shows once again that people with different ethnic backgrounds in some areas and sectors, I am thinking of police and fire brigades, but also of teaching staff, are very under-represented. There is an urgent need to work on this. We need to invest in that. Thanks to the support of our many warm sociocultural associations we can do so. The proposed decree is certainly not an attack on the socio-cultural sector, nor on ethnic-cultural organisations. In practice, it is clear that the associations organise activities in cooperation with associations outside their ethnic and cultural circles. They are examples of civic participation, because they offer hundreds of thousands of newcomers opportunities to further connect with the rich social offerings in Flanders, not only socially but also in terms of education and employment, thanks to culture, sport and youth. The debate on the motion has, moreover, been given a relative significance. The proposal for a decree will no longer be discussed in the Flemish Parliament, because it was an adaptation that had to come into force before the organisations submitted their policy plan on 31 December 2019. If this legislature is to be amended to that decree, it will take a number of years to do so, with a view to the next Flemish policy period.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, the text before us seeks to make a motion by the Flemish Parliament, which states that a proposal for a decree is discriminatory, unfounded. However, it is more than clear to us that discrimination and arbitrariness have been incorporated into that change of decree. The proposed amendment will also undermine many democratic barriers for the Flemish Government. In substance, it is more than clear to us that the motion is well founded. In our view, the proposal for a decree involves two important matters. Firstly, it introduces new, vague requirements to grant subsidies to associations and socio-cultural adult organisations. That vagueness is deliberately introduced in order to provide sufficient room for arbitrariness. Unfortunately, this arbitrariness will lead to discrimination. Secondly, it gives the right to decide which of these organisations receive a grant to the Flemish government itself. We believe that this is an extension of an increasingly authoritarian view of society. The primacy of politics is going to determine how civil society should behave, that is to say, steering civil society. (Rumbling) Indeed, they want to kill civil society. For civil society, too, the democratic barriers must be protected against the government. The proponents of the proposal for a decree say that it cannot be discriminatory. They claim that the proposal is just countering this by refusing subsidies to organisations which merely revolve around ethnic and cultural origin and which do not prevent sufficient segregation. Allow me to ask a few questions. Why have some of the applicants already announced that Femma should lose subsidies on the basis of that decree? Does that mean that Femma is covered by that definition? What explanation other than discrimination based on ideology is there? Why have others announced that organisations belonging to the Christian pillar have absolutely no need to worry? In fact, it is literally said that there will be positive discrimination on the basis of philosophy of life. Why is this the most critical example of Kif? Some of the authors have already announced that they want to cut Kif Kif's subsidies, that they want to dry Kif Kif, even an anti-racist organization? Does Kif Kif fold back too? Isn't Kif Kif countering the segregation? Why are questions being asked about subsidies for Moroccan associations or for the Union of Turkish Associations, when, for example, they do not do so in the Flemish People's Movement? That comparison could also be made. Doesn't the Flemish People's Movement fold back on ethnic-cultural grounds? Doesn't she oppose segregation, either? [[Tumult]] Who will determine that, because the criteria are so vague that there can be arbitrariness and that one can decide for oneself which associations still benefit from subsidies on the basis of those criteria, which are very vague and which are not. Thus, the Flemish N-VA government implicitly announces that it will discriminate, because the programmed blurryness will be misused to give free play to ideologically coloured arbitrariness. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, that is discrimination based on philosophical and ideological beliefs. What is more, the N-VA government will be able to do so freely, because it will be able to ignore the opinions on the granting of grants from the Committee of Inquiry with external experts, who can still decide independently and is also pluralistic. I think that's a scratch. (Applause from certain quarters) Oh, please, you're applauding for that? By the way, the Flemish Strategic Advisory Council for Culture, Youth, Sport and Media also says so. The expertise of external experts is simply ignored. In other words, the Jambon government thinks it knows everything better. I dare to doubt that and the facts agree with me. Now that the Flemish Government will decide who is entitled to receive subsidies and who is not, it can actually refuse all associations that do not fit in with the Flemish canon, just like critical civil society, which apparently has no democratic function. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why the motion originally tabled is well founded. I have just heard Mrs Pas talk about values. Now, non-discrimination is a universal value and it applies everywhere, regardless of whether it comes from Wallonia, Brussels or Flanders. That is contained in Articles 10 and 11 of our Constitution. On the basis of these articles, we believe that critical civil society should continue to play its democratic and emancipatory role throughout the country at all times. It is for the Court to rule on this subject on the basis of the Law of 3 July 1971. As long as that law exists, we must respect it. However, I have heard colleagues argue not to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u167	Mr Pas requests the floor for a break.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u168	Mr De Vuyst, I would like to ask you a question. I did not call for the 1971 law not to be respected, but I asked for it to be limited to what the 1971 law requires. The review of Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution, which you mention, is not included. The only argument I have heard is ahead of decisions that the Flemish Government could take in the future. Until now, on the basis of the text of the decree and based on the 1971 law, I have still not heard what provision is discriminatory. The only articles you mention are Articles 2, 3 and 8 of the Decree. You're always hating vagueness. However, Article 3 of the Decree does the opposite. The provisions already contained in them are, in fact, being made more precise by adding additions. I do not understand why the left-wing opposition today in the Flemish Parliament suddenly has a problem with Article 3, which is now only made more concrete by additions, whereas that dates back to 2017 and the same left-wing parties saw no reason to raise the alarm procedure from the 70s. Why wasn't there a problem then and today it was? Perhaps you could explain that to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u169	Mrs Pas, according to the spirit of the 1971 law, if there is a violation of freedom of association on ideological or philosophical grounds, the Chamber may at any time decide whether or not certain minorities are at risk. I repeat the quote from the opinion of the Council of State, which Mr Briers also quoted in committee: "Article 131 of the Constitution imposes on the federal legislator the power to take the necessary measures to protect ideological and philosophical minorities that exist within each of the Communities. That Article even imposes on him the obligation to do so, which limits the powers of the Communities." Mrs Pas, in other words, the principle of non-discrimination in the hierarchy of the values you cite is a priority. This is a value that must be fulfilled, regardless of whether one comes from Flanders, Brussels or Wallonia. Colleagues, I also regret that certain parties who say they are in favour of the same ideals will not vote with us against this resolution. Unfortunately, I am also talking about the PS and the MR. In the first meeting, people said to look at the fond. It was said at a certain point that despite the fact that the law was amended in 1993, despite the fact that these adjustments were made after the Constitutional Court was established, the spirit of the provisions of the 1971 law has not changed. On that basis, we must always vote in the Chamber of Representatives. Two weeks later, there is a tendency to turn back on the basis of Community arguments and to say that this is actually a matter for the sub-governments. We very much regret that. The MR also withdraws on the basis of the same argument. On 8 January it was said: 'The Chamber is competent to give its opinion on this matter'. But then they say, "Sorry, it's a matter for the sub-governments." I very much regret that the PS and MR are capitulating on the basis of Community arguments. It seems that the principle of non-discrimination is not so important.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u170	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of my group and not as chairman of the Committee on the Constitution. I would like to clarify the context in which this decision was taken by the PS. It was a matter of achieving a subtle balance, taking into account a procedure implemented in 1985 - I had to be six years old - whose legitimacy, effectiveness or even the opportunity it comes here in the Federal Parliament is questionable. Furthermore, as my colleague in committee pointed out, we do not want to play the role of the Constitutional Court. It's as simple as that. There are procedures in Belgium that can be discussed in the future and a calm debate can be conducted in the Committee on the Constitution. In this case, I just wanted to tell you that the PS did not debunk itself! It was a deliberate choice and we are obviously taking our decision, with the arguments I have just put forward and depending on the courts that are more able to deliberate on such cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u171	Mr De Vuyst, you may now conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u172	I understand that you have explained the voting behaviour of your group, Mrs Özen, but my argument remains. It is not because there is a Constitutional Court in which proceedings can be initiated that the spirit of the 1971 law no longer applies. We, as the Chamber of Representatives, can still speak if the principle of non-discrimination is violated. You will not be surprised that the Labour Party will not support the unfounded, on the contrary. Our group will vote against this motion. It doesn't matter to us where someone comes from, what cultural background someone has or at which association someone is active. It is sacred to us, and it will always be! We are an anti-racist party and as soon as we see that the rights of certain minorities come into being, you will always find us on your way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u173	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the reporter for his comprehensive report. So I will not go into all the substantive arguments. I shall now speak on the basis of my memory of the concept of democracy that has fallen here a few times and has been proclaimed by Mr Spoorten. I will describe the concept of democracy, as the sp.a sees it. You may respond to it, but listen first. Firstly, for us, half of democracy is the will of the majority but also, in our view, a wealth, half of it is the respect for the fundamental and human rights of everyone, including minorities. You can now say that you are in favour of it or against it. I take it you're not an opponent. I would just like to point out, because there is a call here about the primacy of politics, that democracy is more than just the primacy of politics. Secondly, and finally, an exceptional instrument has been used here, on which we have debated a great deal in committee. A reasoned motion has been tabled by a large minority in a parliament. We, Parliaments, are the first to do so. There is another law which, when invoked, we must apply in conjunction with its procedure. Let us do the same and apply the procedure of the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u174	I made a statement in committee. That is why I asked the reporter to produce a full report. However, here I am bound, of course, by the fact that I am the President of the Chamber. However, the motion before us, which will shortly be put to the vote, is of my own accord. As far as the voting behaviour of my group is concerned, therefore, I am entitled to refer to it. I am not going to go into that further. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u175	You have taken note of the list of proposals that have been requested for consideration in the last agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I shall consider it to be taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider it accepted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u176	Mr President, it is about the legislative proposal No. 978/1 laying down various provisions on the federal contribution to the financing of the social funds for gas and electricity. In December, it was unanimously approved here to re-index the social funds for 2019. The present proposal regulates the indexation for 2020. We call for the urgency of making the funds from the dormant fund available. It also regulates the situation for 2020 so that the OMCWs can have the resources they need for this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u177	Does anyone else want to speak about urgency? I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u178	Mr President, I would like to ask the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 965/1 on tax advisers and accountants. In accordance with Article 127 (2) of the Act of 17 March 2019 on the professions of accountants and tax advisors, the interim board of the Belgian Institute of Tax Advisors and Accountants shall perform all preparatory tasks necessary for the establishment and functioning of the Institute and its bodies. In order to ensure continuity of operation within the framework of the transition from the two institutes to one institute, it is necessary for the General Assembly to be able to take decisions on the means of operation of the new institute. This legislative proposal also gives this institute legal personality, and since the general assembly of the institute must be convened urgently, we are asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, is there anyone else asking for the floor on the grounds of urgency? I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question. Ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely not clear to me that we are going to do an electronic count.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u180	(Vote/vote 1) 76 Members voted in favour, 56 voted against. As a result, the urgency is adopted. As a result, the urgency was accepted. Are there any other questions of urgency? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u181	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u182	Mr President, on the basis of the amendments adopted last week, I would like to give an explanation of vote. This amendment protects all parents, women and men from discrimination because they have children, regardless of how one grows older or co-parent, by natural means, IVF or adoption. I wanted to make that clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u183	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the legislative proposal as amended. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (165/13) Accordingly, the House adopted the bill, as amended. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (165/13)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u184	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 116 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (890/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (890/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u185	Vote on Amendment No 3 by Caroline Taquin cs on article 2. (895/6) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Caroline Taquin cs to Article 2. (895/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 71 Yes No. 61 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore adopted. Consequently, the amendment was adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, Rule 95 (3) of our Rules of Procedure states that the adoption of an amendment implies that we cannot vote on the whole today. The vote will take place next Thursday.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u186	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (173/10) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (173/10)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u187	Vote on Amendment No 18 by Marijke Dillen cs on Article 3. (577/12) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Marijke Dillen cs to Article 3. (577/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[16]] Yes No. 116 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 19 by Marijke Dillen cs on Article 3. (577/12) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Marijke Dillen cs to Article 3. (577/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote t is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u188	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 20 by Marijke Dillen cs on Article 3. (577/12) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Marijke Dillen cs to Article 3. (577/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote t is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u189	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 21 by Marijke Dillen cs on Article 3. (577/12) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Marijke Dillen cs to Article 3. (577/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote t is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u190	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 22 by Marijke Dillen cs on Article 3. (577/12) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Marijke Dillen cs to Article 3. (577/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote t is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u191	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 23 by Marijke Dillen cs on Article 3. (577/12) Vote on Amendment No 23 by Marijke Dillen cs to Article 3. (577/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote t is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u192	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 24 by Marijke Dillen cs on Article 3. (577/12) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Marijke Dillen cs to Article 3. (577/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote t is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u193	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u194	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 53 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 77 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (577/13) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (577/13) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u195	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u196	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group will vote on this text which has been discussed in the Committee on Institutional Affairs. It will do so in such a way as not to call into question what exists today in terms of federal loyalty, which implies the autonomy of each Region to decide for itself, in accordance with its own powers. However, because of the ethnocultural criteria and the notion of self-restraint, which are not defined, we consider this decree to be infamous and manifestly discriminatory.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u197	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u198	Yes 58 Yes No. [[40]] No Abstentions 34 Abstensions Total 132 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a decision. It will be forwarded to the Flemish Senate and Parliament. (863/ 2004) Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal for a decision. It will be sent to the Senate and to the Flemish Parliament. (863/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-30-55-plenair-ip022x.u199	We must approve the agenda for the next sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the next sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, February 6, 2020 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 6 February 2020 at 2.15 p.m.
