ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u2	Mr Prévot, you are asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u3	Madam President, I would like to take the floor to express our dissatisfaction with the fact that, for the second time in a row, issues that the cdH group is addressing to the Prime Minister are being diverted to other ministers, even though it is our own responsibility or our vision that we are waiting for. That was the case last week with my colleague Dallemagne's question about Nagorny Karabakh. I introduced a question that was not intended to know the substance of the neonicotinoid positioning, since Minister Clarinval was able to present it in his committee yesterday. But when he put forward in the Committee on Health the fact that he had extended the authorisation of the use of these pesticides for one year – which is better for the beet sector that needs it well – there was a furious reaction in committee from parliamentarians of the majority. Ecolo was very uncomfortable and the socialists even said that the minister was moving away from the government's position. It therefore seemed to me normal to question the head of the government, the head of the team and of its cohesion to see whether this decision to extend, which is in fact contrary to what Europe has been demanding for several years, is well assumed by all the parties in its government. And I'm being referred back to Minister Clarinval, whom I like very much personally. But I know his position. He explained it in committee. It was that of the team leader, the guarantor of government cohesion, whom I wanted to know, since the parties of the majority, of their own confessions, were uncomfortable with this posture and, again, I was not allowed to question the Prime Minister. I'm sorry. Madam President, you are already saving time because I will not ask Mr Clarinval my question. In this case, it is of no interest. I regret again a choice that gives the impression that the Prime Minister is pick and choose with the questions that interest him and does not answer those that might make him uncomfortable. However, a prime minister also assumes responsibility when there are differences of expression in his majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u4	I think it is, of course, up to the government to assume and ensure the answer to the questions, and to distribute the themes. Prime Minister, you want to react.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u5	Mr Prévot, there is no intention of not answering specifically questions from the CDH. But you are asking a question on a very specific subject which clearly belongs to the area of the minister concerned. I've listened to what you're saying, Mr. Prévot. You are referring to respect for the government agreement. This is a responsibility, which is not based solely on me. It is a collective responsibility of all ministers. So if you ask the minister, since it's everyone's responsibility and I say it's the minister's responsibility to answer, it means that I trust my team, and that everyone in my team will respect the elements in the government agreement. It's up to you to see if you want to ask the minister concerned or not, but I put my trust in my team.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u6	Prime Minister, I wanted to ask the team leader the question, since obviously, we see in the expressions, that you will be able to read again in the report – I did not invent them – that on both the environmental and the socialist bench, we were moved by this posture. What I was interested in was not a debate on the substance, but a question of the positioning and coherence of government action on the part of a government that has claimed, through your voice, to be the greenest it has ever been in a long time. A few weeks after taking office, it extends the use of these pesticides. So you just demonstrated that you could have taken the trouble to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u7	Prime Minister, we are filled with sadness today. Of sadness when he learned of the death of Alison, in Liège, 24, who had just launched his independent company, as a barber; who had embarked with a lot of energy and who, today, saw his dream completely exploded. We are filled with sadness, but also with anger. We are filled with anger: how is it that our society, our state, is not able to protect these thousands of self-employed workers who are now victims of the VOCID-19 crisis? How is it possible that our State is not able to guarantee that these men, these women, that these young people – because young people are on the front line as a victim of this situation – that these men and women do not receive the means to pay their rent, to pay the rent of the premises they rent for their professional activity, to pay for their meals, to guarantee their end of months? How is it possible that this collective challenge cannot be met, Minister? Yet the issues are very concrete to solve. So why is it that the bridge right is not automatically granted for all these sectors which have been unilaterally decided to close? This was particularly the case in the hairdressing sector. Why is this right not automatic? We need to proactively get him. Other stories come to us, too. I take that of Marc Ronveaux, who is active in Namur, at the Moulin de Solières, who says to me: "But Raoul, I have 6,000 euros of charges per month. How can I keep up with the end of the month? Banks refuse me credit carryovers." Can you imagine? Why, with what reasons? Because he's in a high-risk area. But it is by definition that they are in an area at risk, since precisely they are in economic danger. Still, it's crazy to hear the banks use this kind of argument. I want to tell you, Minister: when are you going to intervene to force the banks to help those sectors that are not going to survive this crisis today? We need an answer, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u8	Corona has had a huge and unseen impact on everyone's life for months now. We expect a great deal from our healthcare sector, from citizens, from entrepreneurs, but also from our policemen, as Mr Hedebouw has already said. We expect everyone to follow the corona measures correctly, but we also expect them to be maintained correctly. That doesn't seem obvious. The police are dealing with people who refuse to wear a mouth mask, who still come together, who have parties and so on. It's a minority. That's for sure. That minority is making things really difficult for our policemen and mayor. That minority is abusing the context of corona to challenge police officers, trap them and even use force. In the last 12 months, 38% of our policemen have been victims of physical violence. The number of facts can no longer be kept up to date. Elsene, Jette, Schaarbeek, Anderlecht, Antwerp, Ghent and Willebroek are bent down below. The mayor of Willebroek was forced to bring forward the existing curfew for corona because of persistent nuisance of ammo makers who spit on shopkeepers and passers-by, light fireworks, commit vandalism and also do not respect the corona measures. The mayor and two policemen were even physically attacked. In the meantime, that early curfew has been rescinded. Can we actually blame the mayors for taking far-reaching measures? If the federal government has been using ministerial decisions for months to take anti-freedom measures that many constitutional specialists agree can't actually do, then it can't be surprised that other governments will follow bad examples. The N-VA Group previously called for the establishment of a comprehensive legal framework around these corona measures. I repeat this call. Mr Prime Minister, when are you going to do that? What concrete action will your government take to tackle the zero tolerance of violence against the police?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u9	Mr Hedebouw, thank you very much. What you have just mentioned has touched us all enormously. A person wanted to start his business with ambition, full of hope and faced an exogenous situation for him. What's happening isn't his fault. It is clear that the psychological impact, the human impact in this second wave, is clearly superior to what was seen in the first wave. We can talk about financial support, but it is clear that alongside it, a human support, a support for people who, at some point, no longer see a solution to the situation in which they find themselves, is as important as the financial support that could be granted. The example you are referring to is an example that, as I said, really affects all of us. This financial support, of which I know the limits, is nevertheless considerable: the bridge right that you are talking about, the decision taken to double this bridge right in favour of businesses that are obliged to stop their activity with a certain flexibility granted, agreement with the banks, which has nevertheless been widely used. More than 100,000 independent businesses, often small independents, have requested and obtained this payment period, which is also granted in many other areas. The total economic support measures amount to 38 measures. It is therefore a considerable support, but I am fully aware that, alongside the financial support, there are also other types of support that we can give. To companies, we have to guarantee help when we see someone in a situation of problem. I think we should not hesitate to step in and try to help these people because, often, they are no longer able to seek some help. Mrs Ingels, as far as enforcement is concerned, we have been very clear about this. Failure to comply with the covid rules is punishable by immediate collection and if you do not accept it, it will end up on your criminal record. That's a priority for the police. Physical assault, like pushing it into a corner, and verbal assault on policemen, absolutely cannot be accepted. Questions have also been addressed to the Minister of Justice regarding zero tolerance in the case of violence against the police. The coalition agreement is very clear on this. Opportunity of violence against police will no longer be accepted. I share your concern about the legality of the measure and your demand for a legal basis that would be strong enough. We base ourselves on elements of the 2007 Civil Security Act, which allows us to take action and the 1992 Police Office Act, which gives the Minister the power to maintain public order. What you put your finger on is the use of the ministerial decision, which offers a lot of flexibility in order to intervene quickly, but where constitutional specialists and others are asking whether the method used is legally robust enough. That question was also asked several times to the Council of State. A total of 18 cases were brought before the Council of State, where the Council of State considered that the method used and the choice made were not questioned. However, it is not because the State Council has said 18 times that there is no problem there, that there should be no concern about the method used. I would like to stress that, in the measures we have taken, we have always looked at the need to protect public health and the proportionality of the crisis in which we find ourselves. We have sufficiently motivated this and have always ensured that there is accountability in Parliament. You have questions about fundamental fundamental rights in our society and how they are respected in the current crisis situation. That's a shaky balance. I think that's where you put your finger on the wound. The Justice and Home Affairs Ministers have already announced that they are seeking another legal instrument to ensure better stability, and I know that questions have been raised on several occasions in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u10	Mr Prime Minister, may I ask you to respect the speaking time?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u11	Prime Minister, you have not responded to my anger, or to the anger of hundreds of thousands of people, whether they are small self-employed, young people or workers. You're already telling me you're doing a lot of work, but your answer is not enough. Let us take, for example, the right bridge, about which I have made a concrete proposal! For some sectors, the gateway right should be an automatic right! We must act proactively, go into contact with the citizens. The State has a responsibility to protect all these citizens, who today have the sole concern of surviving. Surviving in poverty and in the management of their business. The state should still be much more proactive than waiting for countless documents to be completed. You are telling me that you have an agreement with the banks but, if I believe the dozens of testimonies that have been reported to me, there is no deferral of credit because the independents in question are considered to be engaged in an activity in a sector at risk. How do you respond to these people and what are you waiting for to intervene? You tell them you've reached an agreement with the banks! I'm telling you, in fact, it's not! So, come in, for Christ's sake! That is still the question! Today we are facing a social emergency. Indeed, there is some solidarity among the population, but there is also, and above all, the duty of the State to protect its citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u12	Madam President, Prime Minister, I am pleased that you share my concern. Those MBs and FAQs are, of course, a legacy of the previous government, I understand. However, I had hoped that you would get to work on this right away. I can't believe you're happy with those MBs. I cannot imagine that Minister of the Interior, a lawyer, is happy with that. We have already discussed it on a number of occasions in committee, but there will be nothing concrete. We really need that law. Perhaps we should also look at our neighbouring countries and look at an emergency law. Maybe we should go a little wider, because it's Corona now, but it might as well be something else soon. So I really want to ask you to do something about that. I think the local police will be a little disappointed with your answer. These are very good things, and we support you for 100 %. However, what does it do for the local police, who come into daily contact with these people, today? I really ask you to motivate your Minister of the Interior and Minister of Justice to take urgent action. I would therefore like to call for an urgent recall of the follow-up committee on violence against police forces, which was asked by my colleague Joy Donné, with the presence of the two ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u13	Madam President, Prime Minister, some 30 years ago the Berlin Wall fell. The years after that all countries from behind the Iron Curtain came into contact with democracy. The Iron Curtain had to believe in it and the Hungarians, the Poles and the Slovenians were able to join parliamentary democracy, freedom of expression, freedom of the press and so on. Today we see that in recent years a number of enlightened despots have re-emerged in those countries at a very rapid pace. Today we see that, for example, in Poland, the Holebi movement is being treated in an incredibly aggressive way. Today, the separation of powers and an independent judiciary in Poland is under threat. Today, freedom of the press has been threatened in Hungary. In other words, how can this happen so quickly in countries that could only be connected with these important democratic achievements? I come to the topicality of today and tomorrow. The European Union has managed not only to draw up the multiannual budget, but also to set up a EUR 750 billion corona recovery fund. All this is blocked by a veto from a few countries which actually say that the rules of the club do not really interest them. They say that standards and values in Europe do not really interest them. They think the pennies are important, but they prefer to ignore the standards and values. I think it is incredibly important that Europe should now be able to manifest itself, not as a toothless tiger, but by pointing out that failing to accept or not respect these values will result in Europe going on with 25 or even 24 countries if necessary. Europe must point out that these standards and values cannot be accepted. I would like your government's position on this, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u14	Madam President, Prime Minister, the European Union has been contributing to our prosperity and political stability for decades. Especially today, we need the European Union in this health and economic crisis. As a Member State, we may only be able to move faster, but together we are moving much further. This is very clear today with the EUR 1 800 billion huzzare, which is made available with the European multiannual programme and the European recovery fund. The European Parliament is quite clear on this: conditions are attached to this before we can get funds. I'm in favour of that myself. The European Commission agrees with this. They insist that the rule of law be respected. After all, what would the European Union be if we gave in to our fundamental rights and freedoms, for which we fought for decades? We really can't let that happen. Hungary and Poland are in favour. They're shooting into a cramp today. They veto the European Multiannual Programme and the European Corona Restoration Fund. Slovenia is also starting to support this. It is clear that we must find a solution. If we have to solve Hungary, Poland and perhaps Slovenia too, then European cooperation may also be under pressure. One thing is clear to us. Respect for the rule of law is a European fundamental value. We must not compromise on this. Prime Minister, what will be your position tonight on behalf of Belgium at the European Summit? Is there another agreement possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u15	Prime Minister, I am pleased to see you again. It is the cold shower for those who share the values of the European Union. Poland, Hungary and Slovenia link the rule of law to the recovery plan and what has been set by European countries to enable our economies and citizens to regain a standard of living comparable to that we knew before the crisis, because the economic difficulties are still before us. We share the same values as regards the European Union. When countries, which are part of the 27 Member States, say that they are going to free themselves from the rule of law, which was, however, called back by the European Parliament in a resolution adopted on 13 November, we are having a hard time in Europe. Of course, in recent months, we have all had to take action on a European and global scale, in the form of restrictions on freedoms related to education, on our journeys and arrivals, on our ways of living with families, etc. We have taken all these restrictions on the basis of three criteria - which I know are dear to you - namely, the proportionality, the necessity and the temporary nature of these measures. Today, you will meet by videoconference with the European Heads of State and Government. In concrete terms, what are you going to say to remind us that we cannot accept these positions from Poland, Hungary and Slovenia, which are to link the founding conditions of the European Union to a budget and a recovery plan that the European Union needs? This refinancing is necessary for Belgium. So what are you going to say so that these unacceptable statements and positions can finally give way to true European values? Secondly, Belgium's assessment on the basis of the rule of law criteria began on Tuesday. What lessons can you learn from these first meetings?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the questions. The linking of European money to European values is essential for our country. I would therefore like to comment on the criticism sometimes heard that we would interfere in purely domestic matters. It is not about purely domestic issues, but about freedom of expression and freedom of association, about the fact that democracy is more than just the dictatorship of the majority. These are the basic values of our country and of so many countries. It's about fundamental rights. Some say that they only look at things through economic glasses, but even from an economic perspective, that is absolutely logical. A Belgian SME wishing to export products to Hungary, for example, wants to have the assurance that in a conflict there, the Hungarian justice system looks at the issue in a neutral way. To have confidence in the neutrality of justice is one of the basic values so that the single European market, which is so dear to us, can continue to function. There can be no doubt about that. The Article 7 method is, of course, very far-reaching, as it would lead to the suspension of the voting rights of a particular Member State. Today's rule-of-law mechanism is a nuanced compromise between the Council, the European Parliament and the Commission. This nuanced position was accepted by Hungary, Slovenia and Poland in July, when we agreed on the budget and the support package. It seems absolutely logical to me that there should be strict anti-corruption measures against European money and the way in which it is used. This is linked to the fundamental values we stand for. I believe that the countries concerned that are blocking today are playing a big role because they are jeopardizing a budget, a package of financing that Europe needs, at a time when it is facing the biggest health and economic crisis since the Second World War. This position is blocking something we all need today. Both Belgium and Hungary and Poland clearly need these funds. Our position is to say that the core values are not negotiable but that we still have to keep our heads cold. If there are concerns about these countries that are blocking, we will try to answer them, but it is clear that we will not abandon the fundamental principles of the European project. We have confidence in the German Presidency and in Mr Charles Michel and Mrs Von der Leyen in their ability to convince the countries that are blocking today. As has been pointed out, there is indeed a discussion today. We need to keep our heads down. We must try to find a solution. But I will be very clear: we will not negotiate fundamental values that have been the basis of our society for more than 200 years, of our rule of law, which gives us guarantees of the freedoms that underpin it. We will not negotiate that. In convincing, we will put a great deal of energy into it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u17	Prime Minister, your answer reassures me. We will not negotiate it. Moreover, the sanctions mechanisms must be able to remain in place. If we do not have a stick behind the door, some of these countries continue shamelessly to trample on European standards and values. My advice is: if we do not want to get out of these countries and they want to ignore them, go on with those countries that say they do not want to ignore them, we do not want a carpet market. Perhaps then there are not 27 but 25 Member States, or 24. There are precedents in European history. I am thinking of the introduction of the euro and the single market. This has also been started with a number of countries that were in agreement, and the others have been followed. This enhanced cooperation puts you in a stronger position, I believe. I call for such enhanced cooperation, une coopération renforcée, because I believe that this is the answer to the hard learning of the Poles, the Hungarians or the Slovenians.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u18	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply, which reassures me. We must keep our heads down and not negotiate fundamental values. The European Union is not a jackpot or ban contact where people just pass without respecting the rules of the house. Those rules were laid down in the Treaty. They may need to be made even clearer in a European Constitution, but they are clear and should not be violated. An answer will be given today or in the coming month. Hopefully Merkel, von der Leyen and Michel come creatively from the corner, but without admitting to the fundamental values. It is important that we in the European Union do not let ourselves fall apart, nor let ourselves be held hostage by European, authoritarian leaders. Thank you, and good luck.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u19	Madam President, Prime Minister, our Parliament will have a role to play in ensuring that the initiatives taken by our government respect this essential rule of necessity, proportionality and the temporary nature of the measures taken. As I said, they involve a great deal of change in relation to our fundamental values, which we can accept for a limited time, but neither in a sustainable way nor, in any case, without justification. The Europe of the MR is precisely a Europe that respects the fundamental values of the European Union and the rule of law. The Europe of the MR is a Europe that is also able to analyse what it has succeeded, but also unfortunately missed during the crisis. We have done fine deeds, but we have also failed, for lack of sufficient solidarity. The closing of borders was obviously a terrible signal for Europe's values. The lack of strategic vision on this scale has also been one of the major weaknesses in this crisis. Europe must be able to analyse, but also to take tangible action. The Europe of the MR is, likewise, a Europe that is capable of giving itself a new ambition, by means of a real recovery plan shared between the 27 States of the European Union - I said well: the 27!. Finally, and the MR had presented this proposal at a meeting of European Foreign Ministers, the European Union must also be able to question the blockages resulting from the unanimity rule, which prevent a willing Europe from moving forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u20	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister of Energy, you are exulting, you are happy, you are delighted and you are not hiding it. I guess in your party, we danced on the tables all night. It's over, nuclear power; by 2025, it's over. There's no plan B, there's no more exam next year, and it's not even you who took the shot. It's ENGIE. The agenda was obviously totally incompatible with the continuation of nuclear power, since this review in 2021 did not allow them to continue operating nuclear power plants. Let us be clear: in our party, we are also in favour of the closure of nuclear power plants as soon as possible. But do we have to do it at that price, minister? We will agree that renewable energy will not be ready until 2030, at best. That's the scenario you're drawing. We know that we are already behind the European agenda in this area. What do we do between 2025 and 2030? It's the black hole today, in the capacity compensation mechanism. This mechanism is now uncertain. It is well known that Europe has not yet given the green light. It's an expensive mechanism. We're gonna have to open up, launch new gas power plants, or steam turbines. These are heavy and costly. Who's gonna pay? You said it wouldn't be the consumer. He'll be the taxpayer. Anyway, he'll be the citizen. Bad news for him! Besides, it'll be polluting. Tens of thousands of tons of carbon will be released into the atmosphere. Jean-Pascal van Ypersele de Strihou, the climatologist, said all the harm he thought of such a scenario. So my question is simple, minister: what will you do between 2025 and 2030 to ensure that the electricity bill does not explode, that a supply guarantee is provided and that thousands of tonnes of CO2 are not released into the atmosphere?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u21	Prime Minister, your Vivaldi government is only six weeks in the saddle, and a green trail of destruction is already evident. All sense of reasonableness in energy supply is far from clear. Earlier this week ENGIE Electrabel therefore announced that he would pull the plug from the investments for a possible lifetime extension of our nuclear power plants and bet on their decommissioning. I suspect your green colleagues have purposely taken the blood from the operator under the nails to push through their green agenda. Colleagues, in return we get CO2 spitting gas plants and imports from abroad because otherwise the light goes out. In other words, this government is putting thousands of people's jobs at risk to sponsor them in our neighbouring countries. In the meantime, energy prices will go up. Prime Minister, your Energy Minister sent another letter to the CREG to stop a study of the cost of blackout. After all, it should come to the conclusion that we are right and that when the last nuclear power station closes in 2025 the light goes out effectively. I understood, by the way, that not everyone within the government is happy with this green stranglehold that only leads to higher invoices. Mr Prime Minister, will you call on your Minister of Energy and urge him to be reasonable? Why does your purple-green government want to be responsible for increasing energy prices, making our country dependent on abroad and increasing CO2 emissions? Will the government still sit at the table with ENGIE Electrabel to allow a lifetime extension?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u22	Madam President, Minister, Engie announced this week that she would stop investing in a possible extension of its nuclear power plants. That is a good thing. It's the result of good choices. If one case was problematic in this file, it was the lack of clarity. We decided years ago that nuclear power stations would be closed down. Nevertheless, the lack of clarity remained. She continued to exist by parties who were half pregnant. Here they prepared the core step forward, telling them on the street that it would not work without nuclear power stations. This lack of clarity has caused this country to pay fines to Europe today because we have too little investment in renewable energy. So, Madam Minister, I am glad that we have at least clarity in that regard. The worst part of the whole story is that taxpayers pay for the fines. That taxpayer is already getting a heavy energy bill on the bus today. That is for sp.a the real commitment of the debate. We do not want the unambitious policies of the past few years. We absolutely do not want people's invoices to rise again. Madam Secretary, nuclear energy has absolutely no future in this country. That's obvious. We are discussing two nuclear power stations today. How will you ensure that the closure of those last two plants does not cause the people's bill to rise again?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u23	Madam Chair, Prime Minister, Minister, a page is turning. Finally, the government is clear and decides to invest heavily in renewable energy, which is of course good for the creation of new economic opportunities but also for the planet. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would not like the new chapter that opens before us to be written without the workers of Tihange and Doel. You know I'm from Huy, and I care about that. I believe that a social plan must be a priority. I believe that the nuclear operator cannot avoid its legal responsibility and must find a solution for all staff. There must be no dry and massive redundancies, first of all because there is dismantling. I'm sorry, but we're not dismantling a nuclear reactor like we're dismantling a laundry pliers factory. No! Dismantling will take at least twenty to thirty years and will require at least 700 full-time employees in Tihange alone. Rather than resorting to less experienced, perhaps cheaper, employees abroad, elsewhere in the world, I believe that we must give priority to Tihange and Doel workers. Above all, ladies and gentlemen, I would like us to look together towards the future. The future is not to extend a reactor of just one gigawatt by ten years, because in the end, it would only reduce the problem over time. No. The future, ladies and gentlemen, is to decide together, collectively, positively that we will triple the capacity of offshore wind turbines in the North Sea. That is ambitious, that is the Green Deal that I am proud of and that we can carry together, not only with the ecologists but with the socialists, with the liberal family and with the Christian Democrats. It is like this, too, I believe, that we must embark on the energy transition train with the workers of Doel and Tihange.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u24	Prime Minister, Minister, I will fall into the house with the door. Yesterday I listened to the policy statement and this morning I am surprised to read that you asked or ordered the CREG to stop the study on the cost of the blackout. Can't the citizen know the truth? I hear you'll be making laws that will allow you to play judge and party yourself. First question. Is there any form of green communism waiting for us? Second question. You also said yesterday that you will have a study carried out up to 1,000 kilometres from our borders, on the possible survival of Objective 1 and Objective 2. A useless study of hundreds of millions, ma'am, because you've decided to close the case. The result is already known, I can tell you in a moment. Ask the Sweden. They decided to extend 7 nuclear power plants of 9,000 megawatts. Ask the Poles, no matter what you do. Poland will pay 34 billion to build 6 nuclear power stations. You shouldn't go that far, by the way. In England it is (...). In the Netherlands a study was started on nuclear energy and the plug was pulled out of the gas crane. Or rather, the crane is completely turned off. So don't throw that money in the sea. Third question. What's the cost? You will pay subsidies according to the CRM resolution approved here and you will not pass this on to the citizen via the electricity bill. Who's gonna pay for that? Will you do it with the taxes? Is there going to be a new Turtel tax, a Tinnetaks? Say it, because I haven't heard it yet. Last question. Explain to the public, say clearly and clearly in the face of the incomprehensible: that you will close nuclear power stations that cost the consumer 100 million less this year and that gas for that 41 times more CO2 emissions than nuclear energy. You're always talking about death rates, and I'll give it to you. The peaceful use of gas causes a hundred times more casualties, four per terawatt hour, than the use of nuclear energy in peacetime, 0.04 per terawatt hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u25	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, the government agreement that we support confirms that the nuclear release schedule is being met by 2025. That's the law. It's just the law. The situation now has the merit of being clear. This exit is conditional on two fundamental principles: security of supply – the needs of businesses and households must continue to be assured – and price. The price of exiting nuclear power cannot be passed on to consumers. For its part, ENGIE has announced to staff representatives its intention to stop any investment related to the extension of the life of nuclear units on national territory. The closure of nuclear power is potentially 7,000 direct and indirect jobs lost. And while leaving nuclear power is a choice of society that we assume, we must also face up to this reality of employment and provide concrete answers. There will be no energy and climate transition without social transition, as you know, Madam Minister. Minister, what concrete measures are envisaged with regard to the future of nuclear site personnel and intelligent socio-economic conversion? Did you anticipate a possible flight of our skilled labour force, knowing that some workers would already be lurking towards France? How can workers be reoriented to the decommissioning sector or to new production capacities, in particular to renewable energy? Finally, losses of more than 3 000 jobs and 15 million euros in the municipal budget are mentioned on the side of the city of Huy, with impacts on neighbouring municipalities, and even on the whole region. The same observations are made on Doel's side. Minister, are financial compensation provided to support the municipalities concerned and to help them manage the consequences of closures in the best possible way?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u26	Mr Prime Minister, you told me in the debate on the government statement that we could perfectly decide next year to keep two reactors open, as a guarantee, as a kind of safety net. Now, however, your Minister has had a "constructive conversation" with the operator and he throws the towel in the ring. This means that the emergency scenario that some of your coalition partners have written in the coalition agreement no longer exists today. I am at least so sorry that a minister forbids the CREG, our independent regulator, who is doing a study on the cost of a power cut, from doing so. She sent a flaming letter from her cabinet, at Armistice anyway, to put the regulator back in his barn and to let those neatly paws paws. Is that how this government handles critical votes? Is that the atmosphere you want to create with your new government? Do you tolerate a regulator being shut up like that? Mr Prime Minister, I think that you should take this very seriously, because not only are these actions ensuring that the alternative is off the table, but the emergency scenario is gone, but we are also in the situation so that we do not need to look at what is going to cost. I'm very sorry about that. Prime Minister, how do you see that? Is that the political atmosphere that purple-green wants to bring to this House, or is that not the case? What steps will you take to prevent this? I very much look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u27	Prime Minister, Minister, I only joined the questions in extremes because, frankly, I am a little surprised about the amount of questions. The energy issue is of course important, but it is a bit the world upside down. If such questions are asked to ministers, it sounds like: why do you not implement the government agreement, why do you wait so long to implement the government agreement, why do you delay taking initiatives for so long? Here the Minister is asked why she is implementing the government agreement, why she has been in action since day 1 and why she is immediately taking the necessary initiatives to manage this important dossier. I would like to thank the opposition for giving Mrs van der Straeten the opportunity to explain here how much work she has actually done in a short time. Colleagues, an important decision has been made. This majority of Christian Democrats, Liberals, Socialists and Greens, has said: it is time for clarity. We will not be reckless in this key step, but we will pay attention to the workers, as Mr Cogolati said. We will do this with attention to the price, which the colleagues from sp.a and the PS have mentioned. We will, of course, do so with regard to the climate, because we need a core step to roll out renewable energy. We will obviously do so with regard to security of supply, a major concern of the liberals, but I also think of all the groups in this House. Choices are now being made, but we will monitor that month per month, day per day. Mr Wollants, we may differ on the future of nuclear power plants, but we, as democrats and representatives of the people, should all be pleased with the statement of ENGIE. Finally, ENGIE says that he will accept democratic decisions, by a decision of the government, by a decision of Parliament. Colleagues, it's been different. We can disagree. You want to keep the nuclear power stations open longer. We'd like to close it. I am pleased, Prime Minister, and I would like to encourage you on that path, that Parliament and the government will now set out the guidelines for energy policy. A new chapter has begun in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the questions put to me and to the Minister responsible. I will outline the main political lines and Mr Van der Straeten will address the more specific issues. The federal government confirms the core exit, as stated in the coalition agreement. We will respect the legal core exit calendar. In the previous reign, that calendar was confirmed by the four parties that were part of the then government. We will deal with this in a sensible way, just as the four parties of the former government said we would like to deal with it wisely, with regard to security of supply and affordability. An affordable energy bill is absolutely one of the essentials, shared by the previous and current governments. That is why we will monitor prices and capacity continuously. We will ensure that the federal share of the energy bill can compensate if necessary. There will also be an energy standard for families and businesses, which will also be a very important instrument. The capacity remuneration mechanism or CRM, a support mechanism for new capacity, was also developed by the previous government. For many that will not sound like a new concept. A mix of renewable energy, energy storage, demand steering and deployment of gas plants, which can also work on green natural gas and soon also on hydrogen, will be a very important element of the energy mix of the future. Also important is the statement by network operator Elia that flexible deployment of gas plants will be required in all scenarios. So even if two nuclear reactors are kept open, Elijah says that the deployment of new gas plants will be necessary. I would like to give the Minister of Energy a more detailed account of the timing. The timing is laid down in the coalition agreement. By November 2021 at the latest, an in-depth assessment will be carried out on the basis of facts and figures, not ideology or dogmas. The coalition agreement is therefore very clear. Should the analysis show that there is an unexpected problem, the government will take appropriate measures, for example by adjusting the legal framework in order to achieve a capacity of up to 2 gigawatts. That's what the coalition agreement says. In fact, we have always been very transparent about this. In my view, we must adopt a pragmatic approach in the debate with a clear vision for the future. This is about nuclear power plants that have been operating for over 40 years. In the past, the life of three nuclear reactors has been extended by 10 years. But with the continuous postponement of a calendar, which has been decided upon, we do ourselves no service if we want to make choices for the future. Unclearness and delay is not the way to prepare the future. The only thing one does is push out the choices one has to make for the future. I am surprised that there are so many who look beyond the next five years, but who always insist again and again on postponing. Since when is postponement a way to prepare the future? Preparing for the future, we are taking an approach based on realism, based on clear and sensible choices. This is the government's choice: not a vision of the future based on postponement, but a vision of the future based on realistic, clear and sensible choices.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u29	Colleagues, citizens and businesses deserve an absolute guarantee of security of supply. That's what the coalition agreement says. It's the federal government, which is responsible for security of supply. It is the government that defines national energy policy, including the level of security of supply. For this purpose, a reliability standard, or supply security standard, is adopted. This is largely determined by, among other things, the value of the VOLL. That is not the blackout Mr Dedecker and Mr Wollants referred to. That is the maximum price citizens and businesses are willing to pay to avoid a shortage of electricity. That may sound technical, but it's not. This has very significant social and economic consequences. It's about time people lose when there's no electricity. It's about loss of production. It's about economic loss. We cannot deal with that lightly. The electricity regulation stipulates that it belongs to the Member State, therefore Belgium, to decide who determines that value. That's a choice. That could be the regulator or another entity. We need to identify that entity. So far, that hasn't happened. I had the intention to do so, and I have taken the initiative to do so with the government. The government is responsible for security of supply. It is my responsibility to do so, and I have taken that initiative. We'll have jurisdiction with the federal administration in cooperation with the Federal Planning Bureau. We also discussed this with the CREG. The CREG has indicated that it is satisfied with the clarity provided. In addition, she said that the work she had started would be delivered to us in full, so that we could continue to do so. The CREG is doing an excellent job and as a Member of Parliament I have always been a firm advocate of a strong regulator. Parliament, which is responsible for ensuring independence, will always find a partner in me for that. At the same time, it is my legal and political responsibility and therefore my job to take initiatives to ensure energy supply. That is a responsibility of me and the government to all our compatriots, our companies, industry and all families. They can count on us. As far as the core exit is concerned, the coalition agreement clearly determines two things. On the one hand, we confirm the core exit and, on the other hand, we will carry out an analysis in November 2021. That analysis will not come out of the sky, because we are constantly monitoring. This continuous monitoring in terms of security of supply and price will then result in a report. If that report shows, on the basis of facts and figures, that there is an unexpected problem, then we will take all possible measures to meet it. All possible measures, that implies that we can also look at the 2 gigawatt. That is why I went to the European Commission from day 1 with the plan that was drawn up here in the hemisphere. We have unblocked this dossier here with the previous government in the past year, because we have no time to lose to make the switch to a sustainable energy transmission. For that we have many partners today, including ENGIE and all the investors who have projects in the drawer. We'll vouch for that. You can count on us to make a clear decision and to implement it step by step. We will do this in an orderly manner, both technically and socially. We will ensure that the power stations can be technically shut down in a good way and we will ensure that the people who work there today and the suppliers can continue to work on the site itself or elsewhere. Colleagues, we are creating the future together, and we are doing so from today. For that we look forward and do not get stuck in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u30	Prime Minister, Minister of Energy, you have your trophy. You have always said that the end of nuclear power is not an end in itself, but you show that in reality it is an end in itself. It was what you wanted and it was an ideological positioning. You say you will take all possible measures in case of an emergency, but you just shot yourself in the foot: you will no longer be able to take all possible measures. There will be an increased risk of blackout, an increased risk to the consumer's bill and, of course, additional carbon emissions to the atmosphere. Prime Minister, you say that gas-fired power plants would have been built anyway. Indeed, but now we will build even more, and then close them five years later! These plants will join Belgium's large list of useless works because, at that time, we will have renewable energy sources and no longer use gas. I think the position you are taking today is largely irresponsible. We are in favour of leaving nuclear power, but we are also in favour of a safety net in the event of an emergency, and this net no longer exists.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u31	Madam President, Mr Calvo, you have not just asked a question, but you have made a tough statement as if you were a minister. Prime Minister, you are now saying something different than what you think you are doing to radiate unity within your government. I can only conclude that corona is the only binding force of this government, in which everyone has their own agenda and of which I am most concerned about that of the Greens. Worshiping climate youths to breathe more CO2 into the air with fossil fuels and pleading for a lower energy bill and then importing energy from abroad is anything but the new political wind that you like to talk about. You wiped out the nuclear power plant operators. I predict that your successors will be sitting with the baked pears in 2025 when energy becomes priceless. At that moment the greens will disappear with their tails between their legs, but evil will be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u32	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your reply. It is good that you opt for a long-term vision of the energy of the future. I hear colleagues here who are suddenly worried about CO2 emissions, but who, in my opinion, do not show sufficient investment in renewable energy, such as Mr Dedecker, who laughs away in his municipality the criticism of a Christmas tree burning, but who is concerned here about CO2. I don't understand how you're holding on to an energy source running on her last legs. As the Prime Minister has clearly explained, two more old nuclear power stations are their deployment. sp.a didn't marry that. For us, a production landscape in which renewable energy is central is much more important, but in which the affordability of the invoice is also an important item. That is a great concern for many people today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u33	Prime Minister, thank you for this clear and clear vision of the energy transition. Minister, thank you for your particularly strong social commitment, both for Doel and for Tihange. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, I must confess that I am tired of the grinches, the scoundrels and those who are somewhat surprised. Since 2003, this nuclear release schedule has been known. It has been confirmed on several occasions by several Governments within the country. Colleagues, let's stop playing small shambles here on the podium and let's get to work clearly! Frankly, it is together that we must embark on the energy transition and the Green Deal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u34	Madam President, Prime Minister, six months ago I heard your party chairman say wonderfully that we would either introduce expensive energy from abroad or turn off the lights by 2025. That's what the chairman of your party explained six months ago. Mr Calvo, I experienced purple-green in 1999 when you were probably still in the eggs. Since then, the electricity bill has been multiplied by all kinds of green electricity certificates. One third of our electricity price is still electricity on the invoice. All other items are taxes. When purple came to power, we exported 15% of our electricity. Today we have to import 25 %. No one talks about the price at which we have to import electricity. In 2018, that was 1.2 billion euros. Now we're gonna close this place down. We will get rid of the cheapest energy and keep the most expensive. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u35	Mr Dedecker, your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answers. They have not been very extensive on the social side. You must have answered a lot about the energy aspect. So I would like to repeat it. Yes, climate transition is a major and absolute issue. Yes, this climate transition will require a structural energy transition, but in the current context, which is a situation that seriously weakens employment, we must mobilise, now, all the means to support the conversion of workers in the nuclear sector and to offer them prospects and guarantees. The closure will not take place overnight. It is not the whole nuclear industry that will disappear, but it is now that we must start to build, in consultation with the social partners, the solutions for a social transition that will leave no worker at the edge of the road.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u37	Mr Prime Minister, unfortunately you were still present with your debate sheet on 1 October. So I will not say much more to you, but it has become very clear today that the emergency scenario contained in the coalition agreement, including at the request of the MR, has become impossible today. The Minister is very happy about that, because she has known for a long time that she does not want it. I think she even had to buy a bigger mouth mask to hide her smile behind. However, what you are doing with the CREG is absolutely unheard of, Madam Secretary. Yes, in the meantime, the CREG agreed, because two of the three directors are looking at you for their job security. Yes, that study has already been presented to you on November 10th. That's why you sent that letter. My party will do everything in its power to get that study out. The question will therefore be whether you will put it on the table, because I would like to know exactly what it says before we take further steps. I don't think you have that authority today. You haven't been assigned that yet. You must be given that power by Parliament. We need to talk about this properly before you go beyond your authority here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u38	You have no reply, Mr Calvo?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u39	Madam President, Minister, I am here again to ask you about the violence committed against the police, because it does not happen one day without having an echo, again last night on the side of Jette. There has already been a significant increase in the penalties for these acts of violence committed against police officers. But that's not enough. This is not enough because it is still necessary to impose these penalties. And that's probably where the bastard hurts. The rate of no follow-up incidents of violence, contempt, assault and injury was 70 per cent in 2009. It is still 60% in 2018. This is obviously far too much, especially when one knows the importance of the "black figure". Mr Minister, I have here a motion for a resolution which I tabled a few days ago and in which, together with my colleagues from the MR, Caroline Taquin and Denis Ducrame, we ask you to act. There is already a very simple way to act: to remove in the COL10/ 2017 (the 2017 Prosecutors' Circular), a distinction that is made between, on the one hand, the facts that cause police officers to be incapacitated for more than four months and, on the other hand, the facts that cause them to be incapacitated for less than four months. First case: prosecution systematization; second case: opportunity. It is in the term "opportunity" that obviously all the rankings are unanswered. Minister, do you actually intend to have this distinction removed in the Attorney General's Circular? Do you already have contact with the Attorney General on this matter? Do you intend to deploy additional means for prosecutors so that they can finally provide a response that is substantially, radically different in the pursuit of acts of violence against our police officers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u40	Mr Pivin, the acts of violence committed in recent days against our police officers in Brussels and elsewhere are unacceptable, even scandalous. Our police deserve more respect because they are the guardian of our security. Don't touch it. We also expect her to be a body of excellence. The government agreement is clear: zero tolerance for violence against the police is a top priority: "In case of serious physical violence, the case cannot be closed for reasons of opportunity". It will therefore no longer be possible to close a file without the pretext that it is not important or that there are other priorities. At noon, I attended the meeting of the College of Attorneys General to define, as required by Article 151 of the Constitution, the binding guidelines of criminal policy, which falls within my competence. I have made arrangements in agreement with the prosecutors general to change the COL10/ 2017 to this effect. The text is being amended and will be applicable as of next week. Through the additional resources provided for justice, we will ensure that the circular is fully implemented. Mr Pivin, this is another important step in the fight against violence against the police. We are building on the initiatives taken by previous Governments, namely, the intensification of sanctions and the imposition of the security period. The times are hard for everyone, especially our police officers. By ensuring compliance with the rules on coronavirus, they ensure not only our safety but also public health. Police officers are exposed to enormous risks and that is why they deserve our full support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u41	Minister, thank you for the commitment you made and for the speed of your response. We know very well that the reason for opportunity cannot serve the classification without a series of files. We also know that this ranking makes the bed for recidivism. Indeed, the aggression that is not being pursued today is the aggression that will take place tomorrow and that may be even more violent. So, thank you. There is much talk now about trust in politics, but restoring the police's confidence in their justice is another challenge. The message must be stronger, faster and clearer as violence is increasingly commonplace. I would like to point out that Ecoloj has recently published a children's book in which it is permissible to hit police officers if the reader arrives at the end of a maze. This is not acceptable! Violence against the police is nothing like a game. Thank you for responding to our proposals so quickly and concretely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u42	Madam President, Minister, you will agree with me that we have a thriving association life in Belgium. Many associations are active in villages, neighborhoods, municipalities. Many associations are also at the forefront of the fight against corona. Many of these associations are organised as non-profit organisations. Those nonprofits are having a lot of questions right now. A non-profit association has bodies: an administrative body, a general meeting, and these bodies must come together. Traditionally, the general meetings around this time take place to approve the budget or appoint directors, among other things. However, there should be no physical meetings due to the corona measures in force. That's a problem. You could say: why doesn't one come together electronically? Or why one does not decide in writing, by e-mail. The problem is that the law currently provides that this can only be done for written decision-making in the governing body and that there is no automatic possibility for the general meeting to meet electronically or in writing. This situation has occurred before, during the first lockdown. At that time, we had the power of attorney that provided a solution. That power of attorney is no longer there. The directors of the non-profit organisations now have the question of how to deal with it. I come to my specific question to you, Minister. Can you clarify what measures are being taken to ensure that the meetings of the general meetings and the administrative bodies can take place properly during this lockdown?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u43	Madam President, Mr Matheï, I am, of course, aware of the problem and I am also sensitive to it. The many volunteers in our country, often organized in non-profit organisations, are indeed the connective tissue of our society. It's about people who don't care about the cause. Corona makes working difficult for them, now that since the beginning of this month physical meetings of general meetings of non-profit organisations are no longer possible. During the first corona wave, the possibility to organise a general meeting digitally was already offered. In this way, they can fulfil their legal obligation to organise a general meeting once a year. Some people used this at the time, others did not: they chose to postpone the general assembly and are now in trouble, as you rightly say. I'll fix this so they can meet digitally even now, in the second wave. We adopted a preliminary draft law to that effect at first reading at the Council of Ministers. I am going to present this to Parliament shortly and I hope that it will be dealt with and approved soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Vzw's and associations are very important. It is also important that they are able to meet properly, and this is currently unclear. I am in favour of permanent anchoring that in future electronic and written meetings should be possible for the general assembly and the administrative board. Mr Geens and I have tabled a legislative proposal for this, but if your draft law can speed things up, the better. This will provide a very great added value for the non-profit organisations and especially for all directors of non-profit organisations who are often willing to run these non-profit organisations day and night.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u45	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the desperate gesture of young Alysson upsets us all and challenges us all. This human tragedy brings back to us the situation of these young entrepreneurs who have invested everything and who find themselves left behind by this unbearable crisis. These young entrepreneurs, who will be the driving force for reviving economic activity in the future, when health conditions permit. In addition to this, many independents express their anger because they fail to obtain the promised aid which is sometimes very long-awaited or because they can testify to a feeling of abuse or arbitrariness in the given aid. It seems important, Mr Minister, to organise better information and communication on all the aids that are put in place for the self-employed: the bridge right, the double bridge right but also the aid available through the funds that have been allocated at the level of the CPAS. There is evidence on the ground that a large number of self-employed people, either unaware of this possibility or dare not cross the door of these CPAS, while the funds have been issued in particular for this purpose. In this regard, Minister, I am making a suggestion. Would it not be wise to delegate this task to the social secretariats of the self-employed who are already giving them their right of way and to insist that these aids be paid out very quickly, in contrast to too long periods of time for the payment of bridge fees. Mr Minister, it is essential that all self-employed persons be able to receive assistance, including complementary self-employed persons and starters, even if you have taken a first step in reducing the right to self-employment from four to two quarters. Minister, do you think that the aid announced by your government is sufficient to help young entrepreneurs overcome the closure of so-called non-essential activities? If not, how do you intend to remedy this in order to avoid new social and human tragedies? What measures have been taken to inform the self-employed and SMEs about the aid available? What measures are being taken to combat possible abuses and fraud by some, in order to ensure fair and fair treatment of the victims of this crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u46	Madam President, Minister, on the day of the female entrepreneur I like to be here as an entrepreneur, but also as a politician. I would like to express my concern, because tomorrow is the day for all entrepreneurs. This is a special period for all entrepreneurs. This crisis has a huge impact on companies, and therefore on managers. Many face the closure of their case, the limitation of the activities of their case, and this despite the costs, which continue to run. However, they are often also the listening ear for concerned customers, also entrepreneurs who know the same problems and come to their attention, because they understand each other. They are also the listening ear for sick and worried workers who have to motivate them every day. And this while they're wrestling themselves, maybe they're having serious financial problems, doubting the survival of their company, and worried about possibly having to fire people. And then they come home in a family situation where it probably doesn't work out like every day. So the stress is enormous for many and there is even panic. There is also the lack of perspective. Sometimes I hear resilient entrepreneurs designing different scenarios. However, there are many others who remain silent and whose second wave has seriously affected mental well-being, despite the good state support measures, both in March and now. With a great deal of pain in our hearts, we even get reports of suicide from entrepreneurs because they no longer see a way out. That is intense and we must not be blind to it. Luckily, a lot has happened. Many organisations have started to provide psychological support to as many people as possible. In Ghent a webinar was given on how the non-profit organisation Dyzo entrepreneurs can help for free in these exceptional times and what steps entrepreneurs can take. Attention was also paid to strengthening resilience. Social insurance funds also try to provide a listening ear and support, such as the listening ear of Liantis. Minister Vandenbroucke provides for the recruitment of 1,500 additional psychologists. The Communities are also taking initiatives. There are therefore many possibilities, but self-employed people must be able to find their way easily to the appropriate assistance. A help in which they can trust and understand their problems. Minister, how does the government inform entrepreneurs about the possibilities of mentoring mental problems? How do you ensure that the offer of psychological guidance is aligned with the self-employed? Do you work together with your colleague, the Minister for Health and the Communities? Do you know where those 1,500 psychologists will be deployed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u47	I would ask you once again to pay attention to speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u48	Mr De Smet, Mrs Verhelst, in the face of a human tragedy such as this one, I would like first of all to express my sincere condolences to the relatives and family of Alysson, who are experiencing a terrible tragedy. The situation experienced by this young self-employed woman, who had worked without counting on the start of her activity, obviously leaves no one indifferent. I don't know the details of this young lady's personal situation. I can simply tell you that, economically, independent starters like Alysson benefit from the temporary crisis bridge law measures put in place by the government to deal with the difficulties associated with the VOCID-19 crisis. They benefit, they are not deprived. They have access to the simple crisis bridge right and, from October onwards, starters forced to stop their activities due to the VOCID-19, have access to the double bridge right. They also have access to the bridge right to support recovery. In such a situation of distress, the self-employed must never hesitate to seek help before they come to commit the irreparable. That is why it is essential for me that the information on the aid envisaged should be as accessible as possible. In this regard, I can assure you that both social insurance funds, as front-line contacts, and INASTI, are doing their utmost to listen to the self-employed. In addition, a call center is set up by the INASTI, whose number is 0800 12 018, in order to answer all the questions of the independents. I will ensure that every independent is even better informed at this level. On the other hand, self-employed workers too rarely, no doubt in modesty, cross the doors of the CPAS, even if they are in a situation of need. As part of the Vulnerable Groups Task Force, I will work with my colleagues Lalieux and Vandenbroucke to ensure that, on the one hand, CPAS are able to support active self-employed or self-employed persons who have ceased their activities, and, on the other hand, that the self-employed are better informed of the assistance provided by CPAS. At the beginning of September 2020, the RSVZ launched the free number 0800/20.118 to bring self-employed persons in need of psychological support into contact with the structures on the ground. The call center team can be reached on that number. A self-employed person in mental distress is referred to a mental health centre in his province or to the free number of prevention suicides. An entrepreneur in need of legal assistance shall be brought into contact with the Chamber of Commerce of his region. Self-employed persons who are no longer able to pay their accounts shall be referred to the relevant services in their region. The current situation with regard to the mental health of self-employed persons is worrying. This is a finding both from the social insurance funds and from our administrations. The self-employed are exhausted and feel very unhappy. It is important that specialists listen to the self-employed in need. A solution must be found so that they can be listened to. It is therefore essential to take additional measures in the area of mental assistance for the self-employed in need. In the context of the Vulnerable Groups Task Force, I will, together with my colleagues, the ministers Lalieux and Vandenbroucke, present a project to go further and provide additional support to deal with the psychological suffering of some self-employed people. Information campaigns should also be developed to draw attention to the basic rules on mental health hygiene.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u49	Minister, thank you for your answer. I believe that with this VOCID-19, we have in front of us the most formidable collective test in decades or even since the war. It should not become a generational shock. That is the whole problem of the permanent dilemmas that we all face. We must save both the most vulnerable and often the oldest, and we must find ourselves with generations of workers, students and young entrepreneurs who could be sacrificed. I take note of your answers. I know a lot of your commitments. We both recognize that the problem is at the level of a lack of information and sometimes a lack of response from certain sectors. Thank you for your commitment to improve information, for example from CPAS, and about the support available through all the information resources that can reach these young independents and all the independents in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u50	Thank you for the answer. I think you've given a lot of answers that are useful. It's a good thing you're very involved and want to put even more dynamics into it than I thought. I would like to bring together your answers and deliver them to all my colleagues-entrepreneurs. We're also trying to keep our backs straight.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u51	Madam President, Minister, I will not teach you anything by telling you that the situation in the Horeca sector is catastrophic. Today, coffee makers and restaurateurs are fighting every day to keep their business alive. For all of these people, it's almost the work of a life that could go into smoke because there's no money coming back. So, when I hear the figures announced here, that within a few months, one in six institutions could close – I don't make up these figures, they come from the National Bank – it makes me angry. It makes me angry because we could help them. How could we? Just by acting on their fixed costs, and I am thinking in particular of rents. What do I hear today? That the multinational AB InBev, which owns a large number of coffee shops in Belgium, has decided that it will not suspend all the rents of these coffee makers and restaurant owners. I'm angry because this multinational made 10 billion profits. Of these 10 billion profits, it paid 0.17% taxes. I do not say this to you – because you know it very well – but to all those who are not in this House: know that AB InBev pays only 0.17% of taxes, which is still a tax gift of 3 billion, apart from the aid and subsidies it has received. The whole, while this same multinational paid 2.5 billion dividends to all its shareholders, while you are asking everyone to make efforts at this complicated and difficult time, to citizens especially in their social relations, to companies and workers with telework, culture and horeca that have had to close. But if I take the note you put in the policy note, it's the shoulders that have to pay. Today, the widest shoulders are AB InBev. So my question is simple, minister. What are you going to do to have AB InBev suspend its rents during the entire period of closure of the Horeca. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u52	Madam President, Mr D'Amico, I agree with you, our independents, our traders and our companies are indeed going through an unprecedented crisis in the history of this country. The federal government has taken many supportive measures to provide a breath of oxygen to the self-employed and businesses. I am thinking, for example, of bridge law, exemptions from social contributions, carry forwards of credits and a whole series of contributions that are carried forward and reduced. I confirm to you that rents are an important part of their fixed costs for many traders and businesses. In view of the unprecedented economic situation, I strongly encourage tenants and owners to find constructive amicable solutions for all parties. Indeed, it is in the common interest that the lease contract be maintained and that commercial action be taken to enable the commercial relationship to continue beyond the crisis. However, to deal with this crisis, the federal government cannot act alone. As far as rents are concerned, it is the Regions which have the appropriate economic tools: the commercial lease is in fact a regional responsibility. In Flanders, the Region has put in place an interesting measure called "Huurlening", which allows companies having difficulty paying their rent due to the crisis to obtain a loan. In concrete terms, the Flemish Government advances a maximum of two months' rent through a loan to the tenant, provided that the owner also waives one or two months' rent. This is a balanced solution for both the tenant and the owner. In Brussels, the Chamber of Commerce (BECI) and BMediation set up a working group of approved mediators to promote the search for amicable solutions. I also add that the federal government has decided to extend the moratorium on bankruptcy until the end of January 2021 and that we are organizing with some of my colleagues – including Mr. Van Quickenborne – work on the judicial reorganization procedure (PRJ). Finally, with regard to the more specific case of AB InBev, I welcome the gesture that the group agreed to with the horeca sector, in particular the coffee makers, during the first confinement. I regret, however, that this solid group cannot renew this effort in this second wave. I recently met with the Belgian brewers' federation, but AB InBev was not represented as such. We have mentioned the situation of several Belgian breweries, which are much more moderate in size than that of AB InBev, and which also face serious financial difficulties due to the closures and restrictions imposed on the horeca sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u53	Minister, thank you. You say you regret, but instead of having regrets, force them! We've given them tax gifts and, well, take them back! All you have given them as advantages, take them back! Why would it still be for the citizen to pay! This company, one of the Belgian flagships that makes huge profits, you don't force it. But that's what you have to do: force it! Yes, you can give them help but you can also take them back!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u54	Minister, one in five children is hit by poverty in our country. Because of the crisis, this acceleration of inequality, it will be one in four children in the future, according to UNICEF figures. One in four children will suffer the consequences of the crisis for several years. How can we accept such a situation in a country like ours? How can we accept that children are confined to inadequately heated housing? How can we accept that children cannot follow their school curriculum normally because there is no computer at home? How can we accept that children cannot receive adequate care because there is no money at home? To ask these questions is to answer them. Minister, child poverty is intimately linked to that of their parents. There is therefore a social emergency. As we know, you have already taken many measures against this crisis, but I think that it will require a real structural policy to combat poverty, and you will clearly be the driving force behind it, particularly with your colleagues in the government. Minister, what measures do you intend to take to support all those affected by poverty, including children? When will the next poverty reduction plan come into being? Finally, are you considering a specific aspect of combating child poverty? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u55	Madam President, dear colleague, you are right. If there is indeed a revolting injustice, it is that of child poverty. This situation in the whole family is detrimental to the child's present and also to the child's development. It's intolerable. We cannot accept that children in poverty today are tomorrow's poor adults. We must break the intergenerational reproduction of poverty. At the federal level, I use and will use all the levers available to me, and I intend to do so in good intelligence with all the other levels of power, with all the actors on the ground, with all the active institutions. As you said, we have taken emergency action under the VOCID-19. Indeed, the additional EUR 50, the additional EUR 115 million. But as you know, CPAS already have concrete measures that they can make available to the most fragile of us, including, indeed, computer equipment, the financing of glasses, clothing, gas bills and electricity. They must play all their roles today in the midst of a crisis. As you also know, the Task Force "Vulnerable Groups 2.0" has been reactivated at my request. Soon, I will put new concrete measures, in consultation with the actors on the ground, on the government table. The fight against the digital divide, which leads to school drop-out and school inequalities, will be at the heart of these new measures. Beyond these emergency situations, as you said, structural measures are needed. What's better than increasing the lowest allowances? Because that's what will prevent child deprivation tomorrow. As you know, we've increased, and this government is going to increase the lowest allowances. Never seen it before. It's historical, actually. The first increase will take place in early 2021. On the other hand, there are other structural tools. I highlight the participation and social activation fund of CPAS. There is a focus on child poverty. There is also a focus on projects such as the Miriam project that accompanies single-parent families and their children, of course. With regard to the federal plan to combat poverty, I intend to table it in May. There is an emergency, and I will also work there with the federated entities. We must work together to break with child poverty and insecurity in our society. This is our policy responsibility, and I intend to work hard on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u56	Madam Minister, thank you for this concrete response. This health crisis undoubtedly has important economic consequences, to which we must respond. Similarly, its social impacts are tragic. For this reason, we need to hear the appeals for aid and the cry of distress from those who were already in poverty yesterday and who are seeing it get worse. I am also thinking of employees and self-employed people in difficulty, who suddenly fall into a social abyss. In all cases, more and more children are affected by inequality and poverty, while they should not be subjected to them. Their difficulties are accompanied by bills to be paid by their parents or an empty fridge. Many do not even dream of visiting Saint-Nicolas or Santa Claus, with gifts and the usual wonder of rigour; they sometimes hope, simply, for hot water to take a bath. You can't just have your belly tied and tears in your eyes; you have to revolt and go up to the forehead. Minister, I know your commitment. You have just mentioned several measures that you have already taken in such a short time. We will obviously stand by you to fight this battle. Indeed, the fight against poverty – especially child poverty – must be a priority for this government, but not just it: together, in this Parliament, we must mobilize in order to reduce the poverty and the distress that accompanies it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u57	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, during a corona check in Elsene, officers were attacked by a group of young people. Control got out of hand, a fight broke out, and the cops were Jut's head. The three people who were arrested were released shortly after. Another situation occurred in Schaerbeek, where a police officer was just attacked after a check on compliance with the corona measures. The officer asked a man to put on his mouth mask, but was attacked. The guy would've tried to take her gun, too. The man was released. You guessed it was already released. Another incident is one in which a patrol was lured with a false call to the Square Albert I in Anderlecht. On the ground, about fifty young people, some fifty individuals who were not satisfied, intimidated the agents. Reinforcement was called upon to apprehend the young, but in the meantime they had already disappeared. Finally, in Jette, sixteen troublemakers were made available to the public. Of those 16, thirteen were immediately released, three were arrested for violence against agents. Ladies and gentlemen, you may think that these facts date from the last year or from the last month, but that is not true, because they are facts of the last three days. Madam Secretary, frankly, I am getting tired of having to ask questions about violence against the police here on a regular basis. The police are tired of showing up as a walking target over and over again. Citizens are tired of having to watch their streets, neighbourhoods or congregations seized by criminal strangers day after day. Madam Secretary, what will you do about it? What measures will you take to better arm our police and, why not, better arm them to counter the criminal alien gangs?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u58	Madam Secretary, less than a month ago, the VSOA Police Union launched a campaign on violence against the police. This campaign has rightly received a great deal of attention, even here in Parliament, but has apparently been somewhat less well received on the ground. We have seen three incidents in the last week. Last Friday a corona check resulted in violence against the police, last Saturday three officers were injured in Brussels and last Tuesday police officers were attacked and surrounded because they were arrested in connection with a drug investigation. It shouldn't get crazy, three times in less than a week. Those three incidents pulled the media, but from the police union's figures, we know that 25 incidents a day are recorded. So the police face violence 25 times a day. Then how are we supposed to motivate those cops to do their job? Can we expect them to guarantee our safety while they risk their safety in this way? It's about shocking numbers. Madam Minister, zero tolerance for violence against the police is one of the government's priorities, but new measures need to be taken quickly, because we can no longer tolerate these daily incidents. I would have liked to have heard from you how you are going to deal with this concretely and what timing you are putting in front of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our police are the service of the people. She does this very well and with a great deal of surrender. It also maintains the covid measures during this crisis, in particular to save the lives of many. It is therefore totally unacceptable and far from being attacked, as was the case last weekend in Elsene and in Schaerbeek earlier this week. We therefore agree that violence against aid workers and, in particular, against the police must be dealt with and condemned very severely. The bottomline remains that we do not tolerate no-go zones and that violence against the police is unacceptable. I think that we should not debate this and that everyone in the hemisphere agrees on this. In this context, I convened a special meeting of the syndicated partners and the police summit yesterday to discuss how we can continue to support the crucial service provided by the police. Of course, we'll continue to go for zero tolerance. I would therefore like to announce that I will be putting myself in criminal proceedings on violence against the police and against the federal police in particular bourgeois parties. I invite the mayors to do the same in cases of aggression against members of the local police forces. In addition, bodycams will also be part of the equipment. That will be regulated by law. The pilot project of the bodycams in the Brussels-South police zone is already promising. More and better evidence, including those bodycams, should lead to better and faster prosecution of violent perpetrators. As has just been announced, the Minister of Justice will work on the zero-opportunity sepot for violence against police. In consultation with the police summit, the circular letter of the College of Attorneys General shall be amended. The Minister of Justice will continue to do so every hour today and tomorrow. I would also like to launch an awareness campaign against violence against aid workers, in order to give a sign of recognition to the aid workers. Citizens must also feel strengthened to stand up against violence against aid workers. As we've seen in those videos, that can make a difference in certain cases. I will visit local police areas in Brussels in the coming weeks to see how the relationship between young people with a migration background and the police can be structurally improved. In order to ensure a comprehensive approach to violence against aid workers, I also want to sit with the community ministers so that we can make the chain approach work to the full. Finally, I would also like to encourage young people to continue to opt for a job with the police. Working with the police is particularly challenging but also very interesting. That is why I am also committed to further increasing the attractiveness of a police job. In the short term, the following measures will already facilitate the functioning of police officers. First of all, there is the recruitment of 1,600 new policemen a year. Then, as I agreed with the syndicates and the police summit, the sectoral agreement on the police will be reviewed this year and the evaluation will be followed in 2021. Police commuting during the first wave of COVID-19 will be reimbursed and COVID-19 will be recognised as an occupational disease for the police. With these measures, I want to contribute to increasing the attractiveness of the role of the police. Together with all the other measures against the violence against police, we must be able to stop this violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u60	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I assume that next week, when we discuss your policy statement, we will take the necessary time to examine all the measures and see whether they will really make a difference on the ground. I hear a lot of words, but I don't see enough action on the ground. You have forgotten one important case in my view, namely the revaluation of the police officer's profession. This means that policemen can act hard when they need to, without fearing that they might be prosecuted afterwards. It should not be like in the board game that your coalition partner Ecolo puts on the market, whereby policemen may be knocked off to collect points. No, you must support the police, you must not send them out to control teleworkers, you must send them out to restore order and justice in our streets.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u61	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I heard it, but I don't have the impression that everyone listened to the answer very well. You have made it very clear that in the six weeks you have been Minister, you have wanted to give absolute priority to the fight against violence against the police and to the increase in the attractiveness of the job. That's very important. I do not understand my predecessor's reply very well, as you have literally emphasised it. I would like to thank you for that. For my group, it is very clear that if someone is violent against an aid worker or someone from the police, they must also be punished for this. I am very pleased that you have made that very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u62	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u63	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 November 2020, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 November 2020, you received an amended agenda for today's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u64	I have received amendments to the bill (MM. Steven Mathei, Dieter Vanbesien, Servais Verherstraeten and Joris Vandenbroucke and Ms Laurence Zanchetta) amending the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Rights with a view to making the registration of foreign notarial acts compulsory, Nos. 1357/1 to 13. I have received amendments to the legislative proposal (Mr Steven Matheï, Mr Dieter Vanbesien, Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mr Joris Vandenbroucke and Mrs Laurence Zanchetta) amending the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Rights with a view to the compulsory registration of foreign notarial acts, Nos 1357/1 to 13. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 November 2020, I propose that these amendments be referred to the Committee on Finance and the Budget (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 November 2020, I propose that these amendments be sent to the Committee on Finance and the Budget (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u65	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Christian Leysen, Marianne Verhaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u66	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u67	Madam Chair, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as representatives of the people, we not only control the government, we also carry out legislative work. Too much is the latter synonymous with writing new legislation as an extra layer above the previous one. That's not a pretty sight in the long run. That is a pity, because legislative work can also be interpreted as simplification or even the abolition of laws. We need to do that more. If we want to increase trust in our institutions, we need clear and just rules to organize our society. Clear and straightforward does not mean much, rather less and better. Less and better is an initiative I wish to take together with colleagues to go through our legislation with a nice comb to remove outdated and no longer relevant legislation, to shorten cumbersome procedures, to stop paper mills from grinding. The present bill fits into this philosophy, but is large in its limitations. Fruit and vegetable juices pressed on the spot are currently subject to excise legislation, as if shopkeepers do not already have enough administration to carry out. Excise duties are difficult revenue for the State. On the one hand, they must discourage unwanted or unhealthy consumption. On the other hand, as revenue, they are more than nicely taken away for the state treasury. That's tricky in this case. I have never heard anyone complain about the harmfulness of freshly squeezed fruit to public health. The packaging is recyclable. People also bring their own glass to fill the bottles. There is also something to say for such local consumption, which also has a dash for in local shops. It is perfectly practical that the matter is perfectly clear. The administrative burden on the trader is totally disproportionate. Shoppers should not only present a blank record, but also demonstrate rigorous stock management. The most important thing is that the staff costs of the government are greater than the revenue from those excise duties. The essence is therefore that we remove the category of beverages in question from the excise legislation. It doesn't cost the government anything. The trader is relieved of a pack of unnecessary paperwork. The consumer keeps buying his healthy juice as if nothing had happened. I would like to thank all the Members who unanimously approved the proposal in committee. I hope that, in the same spirit, the other Members or we can take additional initiatives together to alleviate our legislation, not only for the benefit of the public authorities but also for all citizens and traders.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u69	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u70	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (864/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (864/4) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u71	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u72	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u73	Madam President, the second reading took place yesterday. So I have to make an oral report on the discussion. Which I'll do with a lot of enthusiasm. With regard to the first reading, I refer to the written report, which has since been made public. It can be found on the Chamber's web site. The second reading in committee was as follows yesterday morning. I myself, on behalf of my group, have indicated that many sectors are in a very difficult situation and that it is important that there are good support measures in place to deal with these problems. The proposed draft law and the amendments to it are intended to bring this type of aid into force, but there were some questions and concerns, including from the Council of State. That is why I have tabled three amendments, on behalf of my group, aimed at maintaining the doubling of the right of bridging while at the same time linking it to the loss of income on the other hand, and at providing one-off support for the Guarantee and Social Fund, so that the end-of-year premiums could be paid, by allowing the government to provide a bridge credit, on the sole grounds that support for the catering and other sectors affected is desperately needed and that the public authorities should provide them. Mrs Fonck also tabled an amendment aimed at explicitly requiring the RSZ to indicate the possibility of setting and allocating friendly deadlines for payments for contributions from the third and fourth quarters of 2020 and also to apply for and clear deadlines in this way, in order to make it easier for the RSZ to provide information to businesses. Mr Thémont responded briefly to the amendments I tabled on behalf of the N-VA Group and said that she did not support them. The same applies to Mr Bombled. Minister Vandenbroucke joined both speakers and said to Mrs Fonck that his amendment was superfluous, and she announced that she would withdraw her amendment. The vote on the Rules of Procedure was then taken. It was adopted by 13 votes in favour and 3 abstentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u74	Mr Anseuw, you are also on my list as a speaker. Would you like to speak now?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have long since had to stop convincing each other that there are a lot of affected sectors, including the catering industry, which have been struggling over the last few months, but which are once again incredibly difficult in this second lockdown. They are faced with temporary closure and with significant turnover reductions even if they were not imposed on them on a temporary closure. It is important that good support measures are put in place. The draft law before us and the amendments tabled by several majority parties last week are intended to bring into force some of these measures. We have supported the original bill, which postpones the payment of RSZ contributions from the outset, but it is also important that when we issue aid measures, the laws that we adopt for this can be legally enforced and therefore legally binding. In this respect, the Council of State had important comments on the majority amendments, not least when they concerned the principle of equality. It is also the reason why last week the N-VA asked for a second reading to resolve this. It is because of this concern that we tabled three amendments at second reading yesterday, of which I would like to briefly outline the context. The original bill provided for a postponement of payment of RSZ contributions. The amendments tabled by the majority and asking questions from a legal point of view are intended to exempt certain companies or sectors from RSZ contributions, to double the right of bridging and to provide for a subsidy for the catering sector in order to allow them to pay end-of-year premiums without difficulty this year. They are all proposals that fit in with a search for adequate support for those affected sectors. We fully endorse this objective. Now the Council of State has put a number of questions to the amendments relating to the principle of equality. One of the proposals was given an opinion by the Council of State. Another proposal was never submitted to the Council of State, but our group itself wanted to anticipate possible problems with regard to the principle of equality. We have also tabled an amendment to that effect. We propose to double the right of bridging and, as the Council of State pointed out, to associate it with the loss of income which is the basis for opening that right to the bridging loan. Our other two amendments concern the one-off support for the Horeca Guarantee and Social Fund with a view to paying end-of-year premiums. We are all aware that the hospitality industry is not having an easy time, as are all the other sectors affected. The latter is not insignificant when it comes to the principle of equality. During a certain period of this year, no contribution has been paid to the aforementioned fund and it is not obvious that this difficult period should be allowed to pass. It is important that the end-of-year premiums can also be paid in good time and orderly in the hospitality sector, and we have therefore proposed that this fund be granted a bridging loan, free of interest. In this way we could overcome this difficult period. Our only concern is that the catering sector and the other affected sectors are receiving today the support they need and deserve as far as we are concerned. It is incredibly important that if we adopt legislation here that is legally binding. We have therefore done everything we can to achieve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u76	Madam President, it was my colleagues, Cécile Cornet and Marie-Colline Leroy, who worked on this text in the Social Affairs Committee. Since they are not physically present and this is of course a matter of interest to us, I shall say a few words about the measures that have been adopted. It was recalled that during the topical questions session, and we see it every day, the situation of our fellow citizens who are active as independents or independents is extremely serious and sometimes desperate, as was unfortunately again mentioned this afternoon. The second support package, to be set up at 500 million euros at the level of the horeca sector, has been discussed and discussed. This is obviously important and we fully support it. It is a question of supporting these economic structures in great difficulty. Corona economic unemployment has already been introduced as well as bridge law. In this case, it is a matter of ensuring that employees and self-employed persons active in the affected sectors receive their end-of-year bonuses, which will put a little bit of butter in spinach, knowing that the maximum is done to support, "make survive" a whole series of actors and actors in our economy. Several amendments have been put in place. The Horeca Sector Fund has been strengthened to the tune of EUR 167 million and aid has also been granted to all economic sectors directly affected by social contributions in the third quarter. Finally, a fundamental measure that we have supported since the beginning, since the first confinement, is the extended bridge right to all those who have to close or whose turnover is seriously affected. This bridge right will be doubled. This measure is absolutely necessary in view of the seriousness of the situation. It is well understood that safety nets can survive, allowing independent and independent individuals to continue to take on essential goods. It is absolutely necessary for Parliament to mobilise itself around this. We therefore fully support the fact that this has been done urgently because, as has been said, we have taken all these decisions through amendments. For us, it was fundamental. We are therefore pleased to be able to show that Parliament is able to mobilise quickly on these issues, which are now a priority and even vital for certain economic actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u77	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the extremely heavy social and economic impact of containment measures. The second wave has very hard effects for many of our fellow citizens. Our social security and economic stabilizers play their full role and demonstrate more than ever their absolute necessity. This crisis requires the state to intervene vigorously in our economy to help companies through it and to reduce the negative impact on the purchasing power of our citizens. It is with this in mind that my group will support four important measures today. The first is to allow ONSS to provide amicable payment plans to employers in difficulty due to the crisis. The aim is therefore not to question the amount of contributions due, but to show the necessary flexibility. As with the first confinement, it is a matter of avoiding the imposition of sanctions and increases on these employers in difficulty if social security contributions cannot be paid on time. The second measure aims to provide a balloon of oxygen to the horeca, cultural, festive, sporting and event sectors, as well as to businesses deemed non-essential, to contact professions such as beauty institutes and tattooers and, more generally, to companies to which VOCID prohibition measures apply. In order to support the wage costs in these branches and to avoid dismissals, a premium will be paid for the payment to ONSS of the amounts due for the third quarter of this year. The third measure on which I will be able to be more assertive concerns the end-of-year premiums in the horeca sector. As you know, in many households, these bonuses do not represent a small surplus to afford an extra pleasure. This is indeed an absolutely necessary contribution to the balance of the household budget. It was therefore extremely important to guarantee payment in the horeca sector, which is in a very special situation. Indeed, it had to close by decision of the CNS and then of the concertation committee, during the longest cumulative period. This situation is also specific because Horeca is the only sector affected by the crisis to foresee an assimilation of unemployment for the calculation of the workers' end-of-year premium. Employers in this sector contribute to a sectoral fund, which then pays the premium to workers. Today, however, this fund faces a funding problem and has indicated that it will not be able to pay the year-end premiums. To remedy this, an exceptional grant of 167 million will be paid by the SPF employment to the Fund. The aim here is therefore to relieve employers, who will not have to pay, and workers, who will be able to benefit from this end-of-year premium. A monitoring mechanism is also in place to verify ex post facto the amount paid, the amount that should have been paid and to recover part of the 167 million if it is purchased. This is a measure which I have indicated and which is very important for all employees in the horeca sector. Finally, my group will also support the doubling of the right to bridge the crisis for the self-employed. We know how many independents suffer during this crisis. Many people wonder if their company will hold on. They, like other workers, are confronted with the fear of seeing their professional project, their life project collapse. They also face fixed costs combined with loss of revenue. The measure provides for a doubling of the bridge fee to €2,583 per month for an independent person without a family charge and €3,228 for an independent person with a family charge. Bringing a balloon of oxygen to companies in difficulty because of the crisis, supporting the purchasing power of workers, finding a solution to the specific problem of end-of-year premiums in the horeca sector, helping more the self-employed who have to put their business on stand by because of the crisis measures, it is for all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, that of course and above all with conviction, my group will support this bill today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u78	The second wave of the corona crisis and the associated lockdown not only have a severe impact on our healthcare sector, on our doctors, nurses, ambulances, and on all the heroes in our hospitals, who also give the best of themselves today. Also on the many companies that are no longer allowed to work, which are obliged to shut down by the government, such as the nearly 100 000 employers and employees in our large and diverse catering sector. Café bosses, restaurant owners, waiters, cooks, bartenders and bartenders had to stay home from mid-March to mid-June and make ends meet financially. Even now, the catering companies were the first to close down. If we can believe some politicians and virologists on TV, they must put all hope away by 2020. Many sectors which are closely linked to the catering industry are also being hit again. Think of the suppliers, the event sector and the tourism sector. In order to help these sectors survive, the government has taken a number of measures, including the increased right of bridging, the removal of sanctions for late payment of the quarterly contribution, the establishment of a fund for the payment of the end-of-year premium, and a subsidy for the RSZ premium for the affected sectors. The way in which the government wanted to introduce this last week is anything but clean. Instead of a thorough debate with the necessary legal opinions, she added this as an amendment to other legislation. A beauty prize will certainly not win this design. However, I did not understand the resistance of the N-VA, with the corresponding delay. If there were too few legal arguments to fundamentally oppose, why this obstruction? In my daily contacts with people from the hospitality sector, one attitude keeps coming back: they cling to every straw given to them, sometimes with the courage of despair. So I thought the reaction of Horeca Flanders was still very good. But that aside. Our catering industry is vulnerable. But above all, the hospitality industry is very dear to us, and economically also very expensive. So we must and will do everything we can to protect their social, economic and cultural interests. That is why Flemish Interest does support the government's proposals and we regretted the delay. However, this also gave us the opportunity to support the amendments which we considered to be an improvement in the text before us, but which unfortunately did not make it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the health measures taken in the context of the fight against the coronavirus pandemic have disastrous economic consequences in the affected sectors. This is particularly the case for most self-employed people, who are paying a heavy toll on this ongoing crisis. In recent months, temporary crisis measures have been a necessary support for many independents, who have faced a loss of income in this exceptional period. The bill before you here proposes to extend the measures already applied in the first wave and includes other more specific measures for the most affected sectors, such as horeca. These measures include bridge law. With the introduction of crisis bridge law in March – under the leadership of Minister Ducrame – the choice was for a support system that could be quickly operational and would be easily accessible to the large group of self-employed workers who were professionally affected by the VOCID-19 pandemic. This right is above all a measure of social law, much more than a measure of economic law. Its objective is to target the most affected independents and to support them through the provision of a lump sum benefit. The decision to invest, from the beginning of the definity, in the support of the self-employed who resume their activity after a mandatory temporary interruption, was necessary. Indeed, in many cases a recovery did not prevent the self-employed from continuing to experience a significant economic impact of the health crisis. Today, we are again in a period that requires adaptation and assistance from us to those who are once again forced to stop their activity, while the cash reserves have already been severely tested in order to cope with the first wave. The fact that these same self-employed workers are once again forced to stop their activity justifies the possibility of an increase in the aid measure, which is compatible with the urgency of the situation. Thus, the fourth chapter of this bill introduces, on the initiative of Minister Clarinval, a double bridge right for self-employed workers, carers and assisting spouses who have been forced to discontinue their self-employment in whole or in part since the coming into force of the Ministerial Order of October 18, 2020. This double benefit amounts to €2,583.38 for a single person and €3,228.20 for a self-employed, assisting or caring spouse with a dependent family. Let's take the example of a carnival. Currently, it must completely stop its activity and will therefore be eligible for the double bridge right. Another example is that of a restaurant owner who has to close his establishment but who offers take-out dishes. He will also be able to receive the double right bridge. The two-tier right may also be granted to self-employed workers who are active in sectors dependent on those subject to compulsory closure measures. However, in order to claim the dual right of access, these self-employed persons will have to be completely unable to carry on their business and thus completely cease any self-employed activity in this case. Of course, if they do not completely cease their activity, they remain eligible for the bridge duty at the ordinary rate. Take the example of a brewer. It cannot supply breweries or restaurants as they are at a standstill. Therefore, in this case, if the brewer completely interrupts his independent activity due to the health measures, he will be able to receive the double right bridge. On the other hand, if he continues to maintain a minimum level of activity, he will be entitled to the bridge fee at the ordinary rate. The double bridge right may also apply to self-employed workers on a supplementary basis, if they contribute sufficiently, as well as to active self-employed pensioners if their reference income reaches or does not exceed certain amounts. If the health situation so requires, these new measures may be applied until 31 December 2020, pending the implementation, by 2021, of a transversal, cross-sectoral bridge right which will benefit all the independents most affected by the crisis and whose granting will be linked to the loss of a certain percentage of turnover. Minister Clarinval is working on it. Colleagues, thank you for your attention and ask you to approve this bill for support measures in the context of the VOCID-19 pandemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the corona crisis continues to drag, causing a great deal of human suffering. That is why the government has had to tighten up a number of measures, not because we like to give people less room for manoeuvre, nor because we like to have to ask people to stay home. What is quite difficult is that we have had to ask people to close their shop, cafe or restaurant completely. We are not doing all that because we want to, but because we have to. That's because the number of infections has to be reduced. That is because we must protect our health and the health of our loved ones. This must be because, of course, we must continue to be able to guarantee that, when someone becomes ill, the necessary medical care can be provided to those who are weakest in our society. That's why our government announced these intertwined measures. At the moment, it is still unclear how long these intertwined measures will have to be preserved. In the meantime, however, not only the social and psychological consequences but also the socio-economic consequences of the measures are increasing. New measures therefore call for support and breathing space for the companies that were closed. With this draft law, on which I am pleased to have been able to cooperate, we are ensuring that we provide this support in various areas. First of all, there is the possibility for our entrepreneurs to get deferred payment for the RSZ contributions for the third and fourth quarters of 2020. Secondly, we give the employers a RSZ premium corresponding to the RSZ contribution of the third quarter of 2020. In this way, we help the sectors forced by ministerial decisions to close down, namely the catering sector and other food and drink establishments as well as the cultural, festive, sporting, recreational and event sectors, businesses and associations offering goods to consumers, holiday parks, bungalow parks, campsites and travel agencies, travel agencies, tourist information services and other activities requiring reservation. Meanwhile, last Friday 13 November 2020, at the request of CD&V, the Council of Ministers adopted a royal decision introducing such an exemption for suppliers of closed sectors, if they also have a turnover loss of 65% or more in the second or third quarter in respect of the second quarter of 2019 or the first quarter of 2020. That too is an important measure. Suppliers are not obliged to close, but are affected by the closure of undertakings to which they are obliged. It is obvious that we support them. A third important measure is the planned allowance or allowance to self-employed persons, the so-called bridging right. The amount for October and November will be doubled to EUR 2,583 for single persons and to EUR 3,228 for self-employed persons with a family burden. This benefit is intended for self-employed persons who are obliged to close down or self-employed persons who are dependent on sectors which have had to close down and therefore also have to stop their activity completely. This is the case for example for Mo who runs a café in Mechelen and who was hit during both the first and the second wave and had to close his café. The fixed costs of such a café continue to go on, but fortunately Mo can now enjoy or count on the doubling of the bridge law. With that, he can pay some of those fixed costs. Self-employed persons who are employed and actively retired self-employed persons who pay contributions that are sufficiently high are also entitled to a bridging right. We naturally agree with this crisis measure. The second closure in a few months has caused the water to be on the lips of many self-employed people. However, we will have to ensure that these funds go to the self-employed who actually need them. I also pointed that out in committee. For example, there are, of course, self-employed people who, even with a double benefit, still make a lot of losses because they earn much less compared to their normal income and because the fixed costs are very high. Other self-employed people may now be making a profit with the double benefit. If this measure were to be extended to next year, it would certainly need to be properly evaluated and made more tailor-made. That way, everyone gets what he or she's entitled to. The Minister has assured me that this will happen. Finally, there is an important measure for workers, such as waiters and kitchen workers in a restaurant, because they too are affected. Arianne is a single mother of two who works in a restaurant. It has already been put on temporary unemployment for the second time. That's why she didn't risk getting a year-end bonus. Because she was long in temporary unemployment, she didn't build up enough to get the year-end bonus. Well, our last measure will ensure that everyone gets their end-of-year bonus, including those who have been temporarily unemployed for a long time because of the closure of the business or business in which they are employed. In order to ensure the payment of the end-of-year premium for all employees in the sector, we provide for a grant of EUR 167 million to the Horeca Guarantee and Social Fund. We know that the hospitality industry has been hit very hard over the past year. The number of days of temporary unemployment remains high for employees in this sector, which means that the amount paid by employers into the sectoral fund is not sufficient for the payment of all the end-of-year premiums. It is therefore a good thing that the public authorities provide for this grant, because it is extremely hard hit. Apart from the catering sector, there are sectors where the problem of the end-of-year premium is present. I am therefore pleased that the government is currently developing a scheme whereby an RVA grant is granted to anyone who has been temporarily unemployed for more than 52 days. We certainly welcome that. For us, it is important that everyone gets their end-of-year bonus. At the same time, we want to ensure that no one receives the end-of-year bonus twice, for example once through the employer and once through the RVA. Of course, we have to watch over that. These are some minor reservations and suggestions for the future, in case we need to extend these measures. I hope it won't be necessary, but I'm a little afraid of it. If so, we will certainly have to evaluate and adjust some of the measures taken in the future. At the moment, however, the measures can count on our full support, because at this difficult time it is necessary that we give the companies and their workers the necessary breathing space so that they can keep their heads above water. We want to reduce the number of bankruptcies in this way, so that we can also ensure that people can keep their jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u81	Madam President, Minister, Minister, the last few months have not been the last few months of a meeting or of the seriousness of the unprecedented crisis. The corona crisis is not only felt in terms of our health, but also the economic impact of the crisis is enormous. Each of us knows a company, a catering business or a business that is struggling and whose manager is in great fear of not being able to make ends meet and losing that great dream for which he or she has worked so hard. Many measures have been taken, including by the Länder. This makes it possible to limit the economic damage in these sectors. On Monday, October 19th, the catering industry closed. On Monday 2 November, traders with a range of non-essential products were added. The cries after the closure have all been heard and no one has been left untouched. Many restaurants and shops immediately started creatively with, for example, a take-out offer, but it is absolutely necessary to know that for many things this is just a waste of revenue for the corona crisis. It is therefore our duty to support those affected. That is why a package of measures was submitted to the committee and approved and is on the agenda today. The draft law allows entrepreneurs to conclude a low-payment plan for the third and fourth quarter RSZ contributions. In addition, there are also three targeted measures to support entrepreneurs who are required to close down. A first additional measure provides that employers in the sectors that are mandatory closed, such as catering, shops that do not sell essential items, amusement parks, cinemas and hairdressing salons will receive a RSZ premium equal to the RSZ employer's contribution for the third quarter of 2020. In practice, this amounts to an exemption from the RSZ employer's contribution for the third quarter. The second additional support measure specifically for the hospitality sector provides for a grant of EUR 167 million to be granted to the Horeca Guarantee and Social Fund. That fund is responsible for this sector for paying the end-of-year premium. The long period of closure also threatened the financing of that fund. We want to support this, so that the workers in this sector can still receive their holiday pay. After all, these workers are entitled to holiday pay. It's a very difficult time for them, too. The last support measure in the package is the double bridging right for the months of October and November 2020. This is an important support for all the self-employed, from among others the manager of a café, a restaurant, a clothing store to the manager of a hairdressing salon, who must close down. The dual right of bridging applies not only to those sectors which had to close down, but also to all self-employed persons who are active in sectors which depend on the sectors which had to close down and have to stop any self-employed activity in the interests of our health by means of appropriate measures. Think of the example our colleague from the MR gave, the brewer who supplies mainly to the catering industry. The draft law, which was adopted in committee together with the amendments with additional support measures, will also be approved here. I am convinced that with this important impulse, fear and uncertainty are somewhat removed. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their excellent cooperation in drawing up the proposals. We are making many entrepreneurs happy today, and that is one of the most important objectives in this unprecedented crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know what it was like with you, but my mailbox has been filled with cafeters, shopkeepers and restaurant owners who have been crying out for support over the last few weeks. This has been the case for the people of the event sector for some time now. These people need support and preferably immediately because otherwise they will not survive. The first lockdown was heavy, but then it was thought that after a few months one could bite back into it. They did so at the time and invested heavily in all kinds of security measures. In Antwerp, however, they had to close the doors again this summer and in other cases the customers stayed away for fear of getting into corona. So it was already a bad year and the second wave came up again, so they all had to close again. They understand that, of course, because the corona virus is just there and health primes. In the meantime, the fixed costs will continue to go through. Unlike the first wave, the rent continues and in the long run their savings are running out. One can nibble on that for a while, but if the situation drags on for months without knowing when it will end, then it is very frightening to see it coming towards you. The government has therefore drawn up a package of aid measures for approval here. These are three major measures. Firstly, there is the double right of bridging for October and November, not only for the catering industry but for anyone who has to close down or is somehow dependent on things that have to close down and suffer serious turnover losses. Secondly, there is also a postponement of social security contributions. What I consider even more important, however, is the exemption from social security contributions in the form of a premium, so that we can respond to the call for immediate aid. This premium should normally be paid in November or December, so people should not wait until next year. Thirdly, there is the payment of the end-of-year premium for catering staff through the sectoral fund. These are staff who are often very flexible by working in the evenings, weekends and during the holidays. Those people are always there when we're free. As a result of the corona measures, they are once again suffering a serious loss of income. It is certainly not in the hospitality sector that the highest wages are paid and it would be a pity if they lose a large part of their year-end premium on top of that. It will be a difficult year-end for everyone anyway, but we must do everything we can to provide as many people as possible with a cozy and cozy end of the year. I have heard it said here that this bill does not deserve a beauty prize. That's right, but I think all these people are waiting for a signal from the government. I get a lot of messages in my mailbox and I'm sure you've had a lot of people on the phone or been contacted by a lot of people. All those people, so badly affected by the corona crisis, are waiting for a signal from the government, telling them that they will support them and that they may still be able to persuade them to continue. After all, many people now doubt whether they will give up because they can't do it anymore, or will continue to do so with their passion for which they have worked their whole lives. This is just another example of exceptional times requiring exceptional measures. Of course, they can be evaluated and adjusted in the future. The aim is always to use these measures in the right and the most effective way, but at the moment I regret the delay resulting from the second reading. After all, the RSZ and the social secretariats need to roll out these measures even further, and that is not happening from today to tomorrow either. This requires an adjustment of computer programs. In fact, we needed approval for these measures before 15 November. That was very important in order to be able to give that signal in good time and get that money into the account of all those people who are now so badly affected by the corona crisis. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank the staff of the RSZ and of the social secretariats already because I am convinced that, even if the approval comes with a week's delay, they will turn around again in order to get that measure implemented as quickly as possible. For all self-employed people who are severely affected, every day counts. After all, they cannot wait weeks to decide what to do with that dream case that they themselves have developed. That is why I believe that this support should now be on the account, that it should now be approved and that it should now be rolled out. After all, a strong government protects its citizens. Right now, those people are panicking. Then a government should not hesitate but react quickly so that these citizens get the security, so that they can get through this difficult period thanks to that strong government and that strong social security. I would like to thank my colleagues for their cooperation in achieving this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u83	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this important bill is to provide answers, although partial, but essential to several economic actors who are seriously affected by the health and economic crisis and its consequences. For months, we have been using - all political groups together - to highlight the difficulties on the ground, which some of you have reminded us today by means of very concrete examples. In short, we welcome this project in principle. With regard to the single grant of EUR 167 million to enable the horeca sector to pay its end-of-year premiums, we are obviously pleased that such financial aid is being granted to this sector, which is currently in an extremely precarious situation. We are convinced that this measure will bring him oxygen. For this reason, we will support this provision in its original form. The amendment tabled by the N-VA wants this subsidy to take the form of a credit. However, it must be borne in mind that these companies will find themselves long - long after the end of the pandemic - in financially precarious situations. Putting a sword of Damocles above their heads in such a way does not seem to us an appropriate answer. Moreover, it is impossible to determine when each of the companies will be able to repay this amount. We must therefore give them oxygen and not claim to support them financially so that, once their heads are removed from the water, we do not drown them again by asking them to repay these credits. With regard to the provisions of the dual bridge law which are granted to self-employed persons who have had to interrupt their activities in whole or in part, it is a very specific category which is covered. The CDH, of course, supports the principle and the willingness to provide additional assistance to self-employed people in financial difficulties. However, we wonder what will happen to independents who do not fall within the criteria laid down by law, but who - sometimes in a similar way - find themselves in extremely precarious situations as a result of the crisis. Many other criteria than the total or partial closure of the activity as a direct consequence of imposed measures could or should rather be taken into account in determining whether an independent is in financial need. An independent person who has not had to interrupt his activities but who suffers enormously will therefore not be given the same rights as an independent person who suffers just as much but who falls well into the category covered by the law. The Council of State had pointed out this problematic difference in treatment, and the Finance Inspectorate had also preferred a more targeted approach in view of the real financial situation of the self-employed, so as not to fall into this category of administrative shoe boxes which must be returned in order to be able to benefit from the aid each time. No later than last week, I again stressed, through a topical question addressed to Minister Clarinval, how certain professional categories - the example I mentioned was that of occupational therapists, logopeds, kines, etc. - who, although able to continue their activity officially, find themselves increasingly vulnerable in the absence of a patient, given the number of appointments that cancel or refer. This text will not be able to meet these needs. And recent news has shown that many more are passing through the meshes of the net. The minister had been able to reply that he was working on a text of general and cross-cutting scope and that he hoped to be able to implement it from January onwards. It is very good to be in this perspective of transversality so that no one is forgotten, but January, for many, is still far away. However, we will not block the adoption of these provisions. Moreover, we would not be able to do so digitally. In any case, we are not going to be able to oppose it, but we really hope that we will not forget the independents who have so far been set aside and yet suffer, just as much as others, from this crisis. It is also crucial to target financial assistance measures to sectors in great difficulty. That is why we believe that the N-VA amendment on this subject makes sense in principle, in a rigorous management logic. This amendment could, however, lead to too severe a limitation on the financial assistance granted to self-employed persons who need it during this period of crisis. We will therefore not support this amendment either. Finally, with regard to the granting of an additional premium to certain employers in order to help them pay their contributions in the third quarter of 2020, we are pleased to see that the event and cultural sector, which has been so much affected by the financial crisis and which is still a particularly vulnerable sector, will finally be able to receive substantial financial assistance. However, we must stress that some employers in other sectors have also suffered large losses since last March. We therefore hope that a uniform approach to rights will be quickly considered and implemented in order to avoid concerns about equal treatment, taking into account other variables common to all employers and exonerating from this logic of NACE codes which was initially able to offer the ease of a transparent system but which, over time, was able to demonstrate also all its limits and that it was not a fair reflection of the difficulties encountered by some economic operators. That, Madam Chair, is what I wanted to talk about on behalf of the CDH.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for many months now the health crisis associated with the VOCID-19 epidemic has hit our country hard. While it is undeniable that the crisis we are going through is above all health, our economy also suffers, in an unprecedented way. In the first phase of the confinement, the previous government had taken urgent measures by decrees of special powers. These measures, designed in particular to limit the financial impact on businesses, were more than necessary. We had also supported them in the work of the famous kern + 10. Since November 2, 2020, our country has entered a somewhat different period of reconstitution. Very logically, many measures adopted during the first confinement have to be adopted again, and in some situations even strengthened. The bill that we are voting today will, among other things, allow an employer who does not pay his or her social security contribution advances for the third and fourth quarters of 2020 not to be penalized or increased. In addition, employers in difficulty as a result of the VOCID-19 crisis will also be able to benefit from amicable terms and deadlines without being subject to sanctions. Our group points out that in the event of a default, employers are, in principle, subject to a 10% increase and additional interest. Without legislative intervention in the shortest possible time, many employers are likely to be even more severely affected in many sectors of our economy. During the discussions in committee, several amendments were adopted. While it is true that these could have been introduced in the form of separate bills, it is important to recall that there is an urgent need here. Employers in the cultural sector and the Horeca sector face the consequences of second confinement. It is now vital to bring them a breath of oxygen in order to prevent some from getting over it, especially since we see that an exit is possible on the horizon, thanks to the arrival of a vaccine in a few months. Thus, our group warmly welcomes the adoption of the amendment to grant a single grant of EUR 167 million to the Horeca Social and Guarantee Fund, charged with the budget for the interdepartmental provision. Although exclusively intended to compensate for the non-payment of the contribution to the financing of the end-of-year premiums for Horeca workers, this measure will allow many already highly experienced workers to benefit from their end-of-year premium. In addition, my group welcomes the adoption of the measure to double the amount of the bridge right for self-employed workers, carers and assisting spouses who are forced to interrupt their independent activities in part or in full. As you will understand, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our DéFI Group will support, as we did in the case of Kern + 10, the adoption of this urgent bill before our House today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u85	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u86	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1537/7) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1537/7) The title has been amended by the committee in draft legislation on support measures in the context of the VOCID-19 pandemic." The title was changed by the Commission to "the draft law on aid measures under the COVID-19 pandemic." The bill has 17 articles. The draft law contains 17 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u87	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u88	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Bert Wollants. The Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (836/3) The Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate proposed that this proposal be rejected. (836/3) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u89	Madam President, I will report on this motion for a resolution. It is a motion for a resolution which has been discussed in several meetings. The introduction was on 13 May, there was a hearing on 10 June, and the final debate was held a few weeks ago, on 27 October. During the introduction in May, when there was still a government in progress, the applicant, Mr Wollants, clearly indicated that exploratory talks should be held with the operator of the Belgian nuclear power plants on a framework within which a possible extension could be considered. He was also prepared initially to enter into the debate with Parliament so that amendments could create the broadest possible support. Mrs van der Straeten of Ecolo-Groen immediately stated that her group would not support the text because she does not agree with the principles of this proposal, but also because she believes that the CRM should be implemented. It also raised a number of fundamental objections. Mrs Hanus of the PS also argued against this proposal. She said that the only way to solve the problem of the storage of nuclear waste is to tackle it at the source and to get out of nuclear power. So they like to stick to the timetable for the exit from nuclear power. Mr Van Lommel van Vlaams Belang regretted that a possible extension of some nuclear power plants could not be discussed in committee because it was a debate with too little depth. He recalled that his group had already tabled a legislative proposal in this area. Mr De Maegd of the MR said that progress should be made in particular with regard to the implementation of the CRM. He referred to the fact that at that time there was no government with full authority and felt that Parliament should take the lead. Ms Dierick of CD&V felt that a possible extension should be linked to the discussion on the CRM. It also took the view that certain recitals would not be correct and asked which surveys Mr Wollants was based on because it was claimed that there was support for an extension of the lifetime of the population. On behalf of the PTB, Mr Warmoes was also opposed to the proposal, as he said the security of supply could be guaranteed without nuclear power. He indicated that nuclear power is an obstacle throughout the energy transition. Mr Verduyckt of the sp.a then expressed doubts about the need for the CRM. He noted that the issue as a whole should be studied. He also stressed the problem of flexibility in nuclear energy. In the end, Mr Van Quickenborne of the Open Vld concluded that everyone agreed that both the CRM and the core exit were urgent dossiers. Mrs Marghem was also involved in the debate in her capacity as Minister. She felt that the main issue should not be overlooked. This is that the CRM ensures security of supply through the medium- and long-term electricity mix. She also pointed out that the government was not a government with full powers. Mr Wollants then pointed out that the federal energy strategy, which contains the necessary elements to ensure the core exit and affordability of electricity, had been submitted by a government with full powers. Mrs van der Straeten was especially not in favour of the old method, with which the government would conclude agreements with operators. Mr. Ben Accour indicated that he was faithful to the timetable for the trip. According to the Flemish interest, it must be remembered...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u90	You can continue with your report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u91	Madam President, may I ask for some silence? After all, the talk is disturbing. The Flemish Interest pointed out a lack of coherence, asked for an objective view of the figures and also referred to the fact that PVDA is not credible when it defends that electricity should remain affordable, but at the same time advocates the import of electricity. There were hearings on 10 June, and I am not going into any more detail. A few weeks ago, on 27 October, a final debate was held. Meanwhile, a new federal government was installed. Mr Calvo, who attended the meeting on 27 October on behalf of Ecolo-Green, felt that it was premature to continue the discussion of the proposal, since he felt that the discussion of the new Energy Minister's policy statement should be postponed. The Flemish Interest pointed out that the proposal for a resolution is necessary, even if the government agreement states that nuclear power plants may be left open for longer, which can be decided in November 2021. The PS considered the proposal to be anachronistic, referring to the new government. Mr Warmoes also referred to the timetable of the core exit and said that a core exit would be possible even without CRM. The sp.a said that the last two nuclear power plants can be perfectly compensated by one large gas plant and said that the main aim should be to create a market in which mainly renewable energy is supplied. As both requests were rejected in committee, the whole of the motion for a resolution was finally rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u92	We have indeed spent some time on this motion for a resolution. It is of course also of particular importance. If our energy mix is to move forward in terms of sustainability, security and affordability, it must be considered that a number of nuclear power plants remain open longer. It is clear from the way this dossier has been dealt with that there was some enthusiasm for this debate. At some point, after the presentation and the explanatory statement, there was a suggestion of organising hearings on this subject. The then President, Mr Van Quickenborne, proposed that we hold a wide-ranging session on this subject, with many speakers. No one has opposed it. Everyone seemed to think it was worth discussing this dossier. That's what happened. We learned a few things from that very interesting hearing. So we learned that many of the invited speakers actually said that it was up to politics to make a choice, but that there was something to say for the two scenarios. The more open nuclear power stations are not laughed off there, it is not dismissed as an idiotic proposal. On the contrary, speakers were also in favour of this proposal, such as the VBO. At the same time, some parties looked back at the past. They discussed how much the nuclear power stations have actually taught us. The CREG clearly indicated how many millions of euros have been spent on nuclear power plants in recent years. That's about something. Now we are in a situation where a number of parties, which also happen to be the majority, choose to look only at other technologies. In the first place, a very large part is used on gas plants to ensure energy production. This obviously has a number of consequences, ladies and gentlemen. I don't have to draw a picture. If a lot of megawatt is to be supported in the CRM system, with many gas plants, it will cost a lot more than when a few gas plants are needed, or perhaps just one. That's an important difference. There is a trade in technology that does not produce CO2 today and contributes to the budget or energy policy for technologies that emit CO2, as has already been mentioned here, and for which it has to be paid to get it up and running. We have to consider what this means and how we deal with it. It is, of course, no coincidence that, as has been demonstrated in recent weeks, studies are being carried out by, among other things, the think-tank Ember, which states that it makes Belgium one of the dirtiest countries in Europe in terms of electricity production. All these things need to be kept under review. This resolution has not at any time proposed the immediate extension of the life of a number of nuclear power plants. That is absolutely not the case. Before taking that step, one must consider carefully what the pros and what the contras are. However, I have to say that many parties do not really want to know. People don't want to talk about it. It's very difficult to argue that way. I note that the public debate very often points out that, as regards the extension of the life cycle of nuclear power plants, the operator has still not said what price that can be paid and what investment he must make for it. That is, of course, a rather strange way of working, since the operator has been asking for years to be heard by the government and to have a conversation about it. This summer we received a letter from the operator asking to be able to sit at the table with the government about a possible lifetime extension and the contours. It seemed to me to be a very good idea to do so, because then people know what they are talking about. I note that there was or is not such a willingness. I understand that it was not easy for a government in current affairs to start that conversation. That is why the resolution that we have tabled has responded to it, namely how we can give a mandate to hold a decisive discussion on it to see what is possible and what is not. It seems to me appropriate to know what we are talking about before a decision is taken. None of that seems to be the case. I have to say that the new team has stated in the coalition agreement that this is absolutely not the issue and that they have taken or wish to take a decision without knowing all the contours or the price of it. At the same time, I have to say that the coalition agreement still has a track open. In any case, that was the case last week. That slope is - and if I see Mr Bouchez' fierce reactions on Twitter, I suppose he has had something to do with that passage, so that, if there is an unexpected problem with security of supply, power stations could still be kept open if there is insufficient capacity. One places that moment in time in November 2021. Colleagues, if it had actually been possible to make that decision in November 2021, would it not be good to know what the framework conditions are? I would like to say that if the nuclear power stations were to be extended on the basis of that passage in the coalition agreement, they would only do so because there is really no alternative. That is the only way in which the government, including Ecolo-Green, will extend those nuclear power plants. Colleagues, today we know about where we stand with the gas plants. We have a draft system, we know that the European Commission has decided to investigate it further. The European Commission has made it very clear that this system is not proportionate for it today, that it has not been demonstrated that it is necessary or that it does not infringe European Union rules, that it could not constitute illegal State aid. So today we do not know whether a system will be approved, let alone when capacity will be auctioned. If we do not know when capacity will be auctioned, we do not know when these plants will be built. Let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen, there is no operator who says today that they will build a power station without the CRM system. I'm not completely honest. Someone claimed it was. He said he had billions in his pocket from Qatar to build gas power plants. That was all in jugs and jugs. Next thing I know, I haven't heard from that guy. I also spoke to the former minister about this. She hasn't met that man either. I have to establish that certain sites he talked about are in the hands of other players today. Let us be honest, none of that will happen. If I add all this up, I do not think it is so unlikely that we will be faced with a supply problem. I don't have to draw a picture. The last gas plant that was built in Flanders, the T-Power plant, has taken longer to produce its first kilowatt-hour than the four years remaining, as currently envisaged in the CRM system, provided that the system is approved of course. In my view, it is not entirely illogical that we could face a problem there. Colleagues, what is being put on the table here means nothing more or nothing less than negotiating with the operator at the moment that we have no other alternative and that we can only extend the life of the nuclear power plants. I would like to ask colleagues who thinks it is a good idea to negotiate if there is no alternative? Then they stand with their backs against the wall. That is why the text is still on the agenda: we must make sure that we are covered, that we do not have to negotiate with our backs against the wall and that we find ourselves in a situation in which we have to make a bad agreement. The fact that bad agreements can be made has become clear from the past. I am referring more specifically to the agreement on Tihange 1. A number of years ago we had a discussion about this with then Secretary of State for Energy, Melchior Wathelet. He called it a great chord, because it would yield more than what was paid for that power station to, among other things, repartition contributions. That was a rather firm position, because at that time it contributed about EUR 90 million a year. What finally came out of the bus was a lot less. We warned at that time, but they did not want to listen. Today we are on the path that Tihange 1 may receive around EUR 1 million a year. The first year came out 10 million euros. No one expects half a cent to be added to that. So one can end with a bad chord. That is why it is good to deal with it in a different way. I had to conclude that there was some willingness in committee to discuss this motion for a resolution. There were possibilities until the purple-green government landed. At that time certain parties had to remain silent, they were not allowed to say anything about it and suddenly the whole problem was gone. Today we also know why it was, namely because certain parties have never intended to fall back on the emergency scenario. The emergency scenario had to get off the table as soon as possible. In committee, Mrs Dierick stated that she thought the emergency scenario was important, although she hoped it would not be necessary, but I have to say that today we have made sure that the whole proposal is off the table. This attitude had bizarre consequences in the vote on the motion for a resolution. I'll mention one of them. For example, the purple-green majority voted away the amendment we had tabled to remove one of the requests from the proposal. But when the vote was taken on the retention of the request, she also voted against it. So I have no idea what she really wants, but I have to say that it is probably not motivated by rational arguments. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you the opportunity to send the text back to committee today so that we can debate it again, with rational arguments. I believe that Febeliec has already asked you to do so today. I have little illusions, however, because I believe that in the hemisphere I will rarely be surprised by the majority, unless in a negative sense. I'll give you a chance to talk about that. Next year in November we will see where we stand. Perhaps then you will remember the passage today and think that perhaps it would have been useful to have a conversation in advance. However, that awareness will not be for this year. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are putting the proposal to the vote so that we can vote against the proposed rejection so that we can make sensible choices. However, if the gentlemen and ladies of the majority made sensible choices, we would have a slightly different relationship between ourselves than we have seen today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u93	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u94	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Kurt Ravyts, Wouter Vermeersch, Steven Creyelman, Erik Gilissen, Reccino Van Lommel, Ellen Samyn, Hans Verreyt, Ortwin Depootere, Dominiek Sneppe, Frank Toventors. The Committee on Finance and the Budget proposes to reject this bill. (344/6) The Committee on Finance and the Budget proposes that this bill be rejected. (344/6) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. The rapporteur, Mr Van der Donkt, is absent and refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have already discussed the production of electricity, which has a price, during Question Time. However, there is also the price that eventually comes into the bus or box of the consumer or is dominated, being the final price. We are, of course, also talking about VAT. The federal government wants to gradually increase social benefits during the current legislature, in order to combat poverty. That was stated by the Minister of Pensions, Karine Lalieux, on the Committee on Social Affairs during the presentation of her policy statement. She stressed the following, and I quote: "If we do not act quickly, poverty will worsen. In 2019, 15% of Belgians lived in poverty. The corona crisis has pushed even more people into poverty, which was previously believed to be low risk of poverty." Ladies and gentlemen, energy poverty plays an undeniable role in the problem of poverty. No one here in the plenum will dispute that. This energy poverty is a growing problem. The European Commission also takes this into account in its Clean Energy Package. The 2019 Electricity Directive aims to combat energy poverty and promote social inclusion. That Directive invites Member States, inter alia, to take the necessary measures to protect vulnerable consumers and households in energy poverty. Colleagues, who are the vulnerable consumers and households in terms of energy? Research carried out by the CREG in December 2019 shows that the victims are mainly a substantial group within single-parent families and single-parents: 5,2% of the population does not appear to be well or even unable to heat their homes properly. For them, it is thick jersey day every day. The reduction of VAT to 6% on a basic product, like basic needs, such as gas and electricity, is the obvious thing for our party. At present, the VAT rate has again been at the highest level of 21% for five years, which is the same rate as for luxury goods. Heating itself is taxed at the same VAT rate as Cuban cigars. People may choose not to buy luxury goods for a while, but not heating or lighting is of course not an option. The report states that some groups explicitly refer to the negative impact on the middle class in the event of a VAT reduction, given the explicit link to the health index. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the cost of electricity is part of the health index, which, of course, determines the indexation of wages and benefits. Simply outlined, perhaps briefly down the bend, a wage increase will take place later when a lower VAT rate is applied to electricity and thus electricity becomes cheaper. This effect is borne by employees throughout their subsequent years. Some economists also argue that the weight of electricity in the health index is greater than our actual consumption, so that we would lose a higher wage increase on average through the index. However, there are important differences behind that average. The distinction between employees must not be ignored. In the case of low incomes, the share of electricity in total consumption is higher than in the case of high incomes. The index basket, on the other hand, is based on the average weight. It is true, therefore, that on average the proposed reduction in VAT on electricity can be neutralized for employees by its effect on indexation, but no one can deny that the lower income is on average winning because they spend a larger share of their income on electricity. That's simple math. Our group therefore finds it particularly striking that both the PS and the sp.a have now withdrawn their proposal for a VAT reduction on electricity in Flanders at sp.a for many years, one of the key points being that both parties are now part of the government coalition, which meant that budgetary choices had to be made, Mr Laaouej, and that other avenues are being drawn up to combat energy poverty, Mr Vandenbroucke said. I know these slopes very well, I also like those other slopes and building blocks. I refer, for example, to the possible extension of the social tariff for right holders, possibly on the basis of the income criterion, an adaptation of the consumer agreement, the approach to dormant contracts, the promised reduction in the federal share of the electricity bill, which has already been discussed today and is currently being studied by the CREG, and the possible coordination and strengthening of the social energy funds. As has already been said, we will take a favourable approach to these aspects of a social energy policy. However, as I mentioned last week in my friendly meeting with Minister Van Peteghem on the CO2 tax, the lion's share of the issue of the final invoice, the so-called hidden tax bill, is at regional level, including network charges. It is precisely for this reason that the federal government, with a reduction in the VAT rate, could provide a very important complement to the promised reduction in the federal share of the electricity bill. The latter can, of course, be found in the CRM file. But it could be much worse, Mr Wollants, than the peculiar voting behaviour of the majority over your resolution. It could be a lot crazyer. There are far greater expressions of disrespect, namely regarding Article 1. By voting abhorrently on Article 1 of our legislative proposal, a shameful technique, also used in the proposal of the colleagues of the PVDA-PTB, the committee was no longer required to give its opinion on the substance of the matter. In this way the PS and sp.a prevented them from having to vote against one of their own programme points. Parliament degrades itself by playing these political games.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u96	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u97	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Raoul Hedebouw, Marco Van Hees, Greet Daems, Peter Mertens. The Committee on Finance and the Budget proposes to reject this bill. (448/5) The Committee on Finance and the Budget proposes that this bill be rejected. (448/5) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. The rapporteur is Mr. Van der Donckt who is still not present. He refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u98	Madam President, VAT on gas and electricity is 21%. That's the rate of champagne and caviar. Everyone knows that in our country there are two rates on VAT, a rate on luxury goods, such as champagne and caviar, and a rate on basic goods. Our position has been very clear and clear for more than ten years. Energy, especially electricity and gas, is not a luxury, but a basic commodity. Our position is that we cannot continue in a society like today's without electricity and gas. One might be able to move on without caviar. Today, people pay blue in electricity. A third of all single people in our country are having a hard time paying the electricity bill. Half of all single-parent families are having trouble with the electricity bill. In total, more than 400,000 families live in energy poverty. These people are afraid of the winter that is coming, a winter with loneliness, COVID-19 and expensive energy prices. Anyone who removes his own energy bill from the bus and opens the envelope knows that this energy bill is increasingly like a tax bill. With the PVDA we collected 225,000 signatures to make that VAT reduction. We have reached almost a quarter of a million people who say that they think it is a priority and very logical that electricity is a basic asset. I therefore find it incomprehensible that the representatives of the people in this hemisphere are voting against the PVDA bill to reduce VAT to 6%, just today, now that winter is on the way. People are already facing loss of earnings and loss of income. They are afraid of the covid problem. They need a clear signal from this Parliament just today. They need oxygen, including in terms of expensive energy prices. The VAT reduction on energy and electricity I know you don't like to hear this before COVID-19 was a theme of the election campaign. I have heard countless debates calling for a reduction in the price of energy, including by representatives of the people. The sp.a has made it one of the spearheads of the campaign. I have also had a lot of debates with the sp.a in which we told the same thing and in which the sp.a admitted that it is priceless and that it is unlikely that it is still a luxury. The sp.a promised it would be a spearhead in parliament. During the electoral campaign, the PS created a large program with eight times the VAT reduction. I could still assume that it was a mistake if the PS had mentioned this once in their programme, but it is on pages 7, 32, 41, 150, 276, 399 and 504 of your electoral program. Then people will take your promise seriously. I do not understand why you are now voting against the PVDA's proposal to effectively transpose your electoral promise into law. The question remains whether 18 months after the elections, after all these promises, the VAT reduction is less or more urgent. People are more in need of a VAT reduction because poverty has increased, because the fear of not being able to make ends meet has increased. I hear passionate debates and passionate interventions in this debate and in this hemisphere. We need to give oxygen to the economy and to society. However, who wants to give oxygen to those who are having a hard time paying their energy bill? We will continue to work for our legislative proposal to demand 6% on energy, gas and electricity. It is particularly regrettable that this Parliament does not want to give this oxygen to the people who are having a hard time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u99	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u100	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 17 September 2020, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 23 September 2020 for the term of office of a Dutch-speaking effective member of the Board of Directors of the Institute of Human Rights (which could prove knowledge of German and come from one of the following categories: ′′judicial world′′, ′′civil society′′′ or ′′social partners′′′). According to the decision of the plenary session of 17 September 2020, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 23 September 2020 for the mandate of an effective Dutch member of the Board of Directors of the Institute of Human Rights (with knowledge of German and coming from the category: judicial world′′, ′′ civil society′′ or ′′ social partners′′). The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: Judicial world - Mr Björn Bullynck, President of the Appeals Court of Antwerp; - Ms. Evelien De Kezel, a judge at the Ghent Labour Court; - Mr Stefaan De Moor, Presiding Judge of the Antwerp Court of Appeal. World of justice - Mr Björn Bullynck, President of the Chamber at the Antwerp Appeal Court; - Mrs Evelien De Kezel, Judge at the Labour Court in Ghent; - Mr De Moor, President of the Chamber at the Court of Appeal in Antwerp. Civil society - Mr. David Baele, Dutch-speaking Federal Ombudsman; - Mr. Frank Judo, President of the Association of Flemish Jurists; - Mrs. Sarah Scheepers, coordinator of Asbl Ella. Civil society - Mr David Baele, Dutch-speaking Federal Ombudsman; - Mr Frank Judo, President of the Flemish Lawyers Association; - Mrs. Sarah Scheepers, coordinator of VZW Ella. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 November 2020, I propose that we grant MM. David Baele and Björn Bullynck and Sarah Scheepers for a German exemption, to invite Mrs Evelien De Kezel and MM. Stefaan De Moor and Frank Judo to present the German language test and transmit the candidates' curriculum vitae to the political groups. Candidates will be heard in the Justice Committee. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 November 2020, I propose that Mr David Baele and Mr Björn Bullynck and Mrs Sarah Scheepers be granted an exemption for German, Mrs Evelien De Kezel and Mr Stefaan De Moor and Mr Frank Judo to take the language test in German and deliver the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups. The candidates will be heard in the Committee on Justice. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u101	In accordance with the decision of the Accounting Committee of 17 November 2020, I propose that you pay in full the 2020 allocations granted to the institutions receiving an allocation pending the implementation of the recommendations contained in the audit of the Court of Auditors and Ernst & Young on the institutions. In accordance with the decision of the Commission for the Compatibility of 17 November 2020, I propose to pay out in full the amounts of 2020 allocated to the eligible institutions pending the further implementation of the recommendations contained in the Audit of the Court of Auditors and Ernst & Young on the institutions. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u102	The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill confirming the Royal Decree of 17 October 2019 was tabled fixing for 2019 the amount of the allocation contribution referred to in Article 14, § 8, paragraph 16, of the Act of 11 April 2003 on provisions for the dismantling of nuclear power plants and for the management of irradiated fissile material in such plants, No. 1541/1. The Government requested the urgency statement pursuant to Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law ratifying the Royal Decree of 17 October 2019 establishing for the year 2019 the amount of the repartition contribution referred to in Article 14 (8) of the Law of 11 April 2003 on facilities for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants and for the management of nuclear fuel irradiated in those nuclear power stations, No. 1541/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u103	Madam Chair, this is indeed Bill No. 1541. It is indeed the confirmation of a royal decision on the remuneration paid by the operator in the framework of a number of nuclear power plants. This decision must be confirmed within 12 months of its entry into force, otherwise it shall be deemed never to have had effect. The decision entered into force on 15 December 2019 and we therefore need to confirm it by 15 December 2020. That is why, Madam President, we are asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u104	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u105	The Government has requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure for the Draft Law on the Beneficiaries of the Agreement on the Withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community, No. 1644/1. The Government has requested the urgency statement pursuant to Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure for the draft law on the beneficiaries of the agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community, No. 1644/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u106	Madam President, the reason for the urgency lies in the fact that the transitional period during which United Kingdom nationals and their family members may exercise their right to free movement expires on 31 December of this year. From that point on, a distinction should be made between United Kingdom nationals and their family members under the protection of the withdrawal agreement and United Kingdom nationals and their family members under the third-country national regime. It is important to be able to identify the beneficiaries of the withdrawal agreement so that their rights can be safeguarded. It is therefore also important that UK nationals and their family members be informed of the procedure for applying for the status of beneficiary of the withdrawal agreement as soon as possible and before the end of the transitional period. Moreover, it is only after the relevant draft law has been adopted that the executive royal decree can be submitted to the Council of State for its opinion and that it can be finalised on the basis of that opinion for publication. Both documents are necessary to start the application procedures from 1 January 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u107	Madam President, like the previous question, this is an urgent one, but am I mistaken that we have not been informed of both the government's requests for urgency? It is very unusual that we are suddenly faced with this question here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u108	You probably got one of them after all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u109	Madam President, I would certainly urge the government to inform us in good time of requests for urgency so that we can have a good look at them. I am in favour of urgency, but we would have liked to have had enough time to look at it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u110	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u111	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u112	Mrs Moscufo, you are asking for the urgency of the bill creating a corona support fund for self-employed and SMEs, fed by the over-profits of large companies during the VOCID-19 pandemic, No. 1621/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u113	Madam President, this is a matter of urgency in the face of the VOCID-19 crisis for small independents and SMEs. We had the opportunity to discuss this at this plenary session. They face great difficulties, and even more so now, with the second wave of closures in the face of the health crisis. We call for urgent action to create a fund that will be financed by an exceptional tax on large companies and multinationals that made super profits in 2020, taking advantage of this crisis. I'll just give two examples. In distribution, Colruyt, and in international giants, Amazon. That is why we are asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u114	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u115	Mrs Moscufo, you are asking for the urgency of Bill 1636/1 on the right to disconnect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u116	Madam President, it is also an urgent request to deal with the situation facing all workers who have been put on telework. The crisis has obviously increased their number. Many studies indicated that before the VOCID-19 already – and this is going to get worse now – there were many psychological concerns for these workers who are often faced with regular availability almost 24 hours a day for their employer. This request for urgency concerns a bill that will require the right to disconnect. Indeed, it is thought that it is really time to establish a legal framework to protect these workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u117	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u118	Mr. M. From Smet, you are asking for urgency for the bill to extend the possibilities of increase, social exemption and the challenge of voluntary overtime by healthcare professionals during the crisis of VOCID-19, No. 1645/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u119	Madam President, I think all our colleagues here are aware of the state of our hospitals and the nursing sector, exhausted by the first wave and victims of increased absenteeism: we are talking about 10 to 30% now, because of the coronavirus and the quarantines. Our proposal has a twofold objective, namely, to return to the system that existed during the first wave, which consists of increasing voluntary overtime and, on the other hand, to consider exemption from social security contributions and a challenge for these same overtime hours, for a limited period from October to December 2020. So this is our main motivation to ask for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u120	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u121	Mr Laaouej, you are asking for the urgency of Bill No. 1654/1 on specific measures for the selection of applicants for "military candidates" and specific measures relating to remote work in the context of the health crisis linked to the coronavirus VOCID-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u122	Madam Chair, I call for urgency in this bill because it will allow the recruitment of military candidates into our armed forces to continue despite the demanding conditions associated with VOCID.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u123	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u124	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[140]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (Mr Pieter De Spiegeleer, Mr Jean-Marc Delizée and Mrs Kattrin Jadin voted in favour of all votes as their group)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u125	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 119 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 141 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u126	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u127	Madam President, it is clear that, had the text consisted of a plea for the extension of nuclear power, we would of course never have been able to agree to it. It is not the substance of the text that is at issue. The aim of this text is, in the circumstances, to focus on the necessary organisation of security of supply. For the CDH, as we explained earlier, the question is not whether we're going out of nuclear power, or whether we're going out of nuclear power. We have already voted in favour of this exit. On the other hand, this must be done with order and method, not speedily, and not on ideological issues alone, without first ensuring that this security of supply is guaranteed, and that costs or CO2 emissions are controlled. My colleague Georges Dallemagne has already shown, at the beginning of the sitting, during his topical question, the dogma which, for some, the release of nuclear energy absolutely today could represent, despite a whole series of questions and unlit areas, even aberrations. For, indeed, doing nothing is a significant cost. It is also true that this exit had been announced for many years, but it was insufficiently prepared, including by the previous government, which did not allow us to be able to manage this 2025 approach properly. The response of the new minister and the current government is to postpone the decision of a possible extension to November of next year, which, de facto, forced ENGIE to make the decision it announced, namely to implement this exit without at the same time having to calm down on these issues of cost control and guaranteed supply. The risk of falling into a capacity compensation mechanism is therefore assumed, although it is known that uncertainties remain, in particular, as regards the position which the European Commission can adopt on the subject, or as regards the interests of tenderers. It's expensive, it's synonymous with CO2 emissions, and there's a risk of undermining our security of supply. That is why we believe it is legitimate for a resolution to call for the option of a nuclear exit to remain open and to be properly prepared. Jean-Pascal van Ypersele, a famous climatologist, spoke not later than yesterday on the radio RTBF by saying his doubts about the fact that Belgium is ready for the closure of nuclear power stations, and yet it cannot be taxed as an ayatollesque pro-nuclear. He's skeptical. According to him, we have not yet sufficiently prepared the substitution of nuclear energy, even though the law dates back to 2003, with renewable energies. If it is to replace it with gas plants, it is not a good direction for the climate. Nor have we invested enough in reducing energy consumption. There is still a lot of work to be done on energy efficiency. In short, he considered in his remarks that it was not certain that shutting down nuclear power plants in the immediate future was a good thing for climate protection. This is obviously a favourable position of principle on exit, but there are obviously still too many unknowns, of haste, without having correctly anticipated this in the years that have passed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u128	Is anyone still asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u129	Yes 97 Yes Non 47 No. Abstensions 0 Abstentions Total 144 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 836/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 836.1 was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u130	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u131	Yes 128 Yes Non 16 No. Abstensions 0 Abstentions Total 144 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 344/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 344/1 was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u132	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u133	Madam President, these measures, which are certainly very attractive at first glance, have a limited impact on the bill with, however, a very high collective cost. They do not concern people who heat up in fuel oil. They benefit larger consumers and, as a result, households that are often more affluent. They may encourage consumption rather than savings and, above all, delay wage indexation. In other words, what a household earns in the drop in its bill, it loses in pay with this mini index jump. Our group therefore believes that, if the principle is easily stated, its implementation is accompanied by many perverse effects. That's typically what we call a "false good idea."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u134	Madam President, Mr Houtmeyers made up for Mrs de Block's mistake in the third vote. As Mrs De Block has corrected hers, I would also like to correct Mrs Houtmeyers's.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u135	Madam President, my colleague Sophie Rohonyi points out that she was unable to log in for the last three votes, where she had voted like me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u136	Madam President, today is an epidemic of bad votes. Is it not best that after the plenary session, the group leaders send an e-mail to the services stating that for such a vote, a Member could not vote? One day or the other, we will have 30 or 40 items on the agenda and we will not get away with it. It would be better if the group leaders send an e-mail and report the problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u137	This seems to be a pragmatic proposal from Mr Laaouej, but I assume that it should be in the report if someone changes a vote so that we cannot say afterwards that a vote should have been different. That is for the Minutes and the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u138	You're right. Start of voting. Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u139	Yes 119 Yes Non 30 No. Abstensions 0 Abstentions Total 149 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 448/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 448/1 was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-19-55-plenair-ip071x.u140	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, November 26, 2020 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 26 November 2020 at 2.15 p.m.
