ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u1	Colleagues, Minister, I suggest that we begin with the topical debate on Syria and the 17 oral questions that have been added. You have a question, Mrs. Depoorter?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u2	Madam President, Minister, I would first like to refer to another topical debate, namely the one on the corona crisis and the negative travel advice until 3 April, which was delivered today. I was wondering why it would take until April 3, because then the Easter holiday begins. Many school trips take place during that period. In recent weeks local authorities have already had to make a number of decisions on snow classes, for which no negative advice has been given. What does the government intend to do with Easter holidays, school trips and other trips? The attention of local administrators goes to the schools and the planned school trips.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u3	That question is not on the agenda, Mrs. Depoorter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u4	No, but it's a pressing question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u5	It is indeed a pressing question. Are you prepared to answer that, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u6	We have adopted Italy's opinion and decision. In Italy it has been said that it will apply at least until 3 April. So our advice also applies until 3 April.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u7	I think that's a missed opportunity. Local authorities need to decide what they're going to do right now. After all, there are no insurers to fall back on. I invite the government to think about this and answer it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u8	I think my answer is adequate: we can only advise against it, we do not have the authority to do more. We say, on the basis of Italy's decision, that school trips are not recommended; no more and no less.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u9	We can come back to that in plenary. This question will certainly be raised again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u10	Ellen Samyn (VB): Minister, "However, the overall assessment of the implementation of the agreement is rather positive." That is the answer I received from former Foreign Minister Didier Reynders in October to my question about yet another violation of the Turkey deal. As early as 2019, illegal immigration from Turkey to the Greek islands increased impressively. In 2018, 50,508 illegal immigrants entered Greece via Turkey, representing an increase of 30% compared to 2017. In 2019, the counter stood at 74,613 illegal immigrants, an increase of as much as 50%. What did the European Union do? She looked the other way. Criminally, it was already allowed by Turkey to take lax action against illegal immigration into Greece. So we can certainly speak of negligence. Eventually, Erdogan rushed his tried and tested blackmail policy against Europe and sent as the ultimate weapon an army of illegal immigrants, who have been besieging our external borders for more than a week now. All this comes from a country which is still officially a candidate country for membership of the European Union. By the way, we pay some EUR 600 million from the European Union to Turkey every year. Colleagues, between 2002 and 2020, the European Union paid around EUR 10.6 billion in total. Within the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027, a further €6 billion commitment will be put on the table. The fact that Erdogan has no respect for the European Union is confirmed by his call to Greece on 8 March 2020 to open its borders to migrants. "Hey Greece, I appeal to you. Open the gates and free yourself from this burden. Let them go to other European countries." He made that statement one day before his meeting with Ursula von der Leyen and Charles Michel. While some of the leading people in the European Union, including the inevitable Angela Merkel, are calling for additional investment in the migration agreement, the Turkish President, Mr Erdogan, said he was proud to reject the extra billion euro offered by the European Union on Monday, 2 March 2020. Not only are some policy makers promising additional money for Turkey, but they are also circulating the offer of bringing more Syrians from Turkey to Europe, whether or not within the framework of a so-called coalition of willing people. Finally, Frontex would be planning to send additional troops to Greece in the middle of this week. However, it is not clear to me with what mandate and in what role that will be. In the past, Frontex played a weak role as a ferry service rather than as a guard of our external borders. Having said that, Minister, I would have liked to have received an answer from you to the following questions. What is the Belgian Government's position on the whole issue? What is the fate of the so-called Turkey deal/refugee deal? Turkey is economically heavily dependent on the European Union. Are economic sanctions against Turkey being considered at European level? What possible measures were discussed at the European Council on Friday 6 March 2020? I have already pointed out in my introduction that some EUR 600 million of pre-accession aid is being paid to Turkey every year, although there is no EU-future perspective and such a perspective should be absolutely indigestible in every respect after the latest blackmail policy. Are you prepared to argue at European level for the immediate removal of European pre-accession aid to Turkey? I have a few more questions about the extra money that was offered. Is Turkish President Erdogan's claim that extra money was offered to him? If so, how many? What financial cost does that mean or will that mean for Belgium? Or did Erdogan actually reject that offer? Have you heard of the offer made by a number of countries to fly migrants from Turkey or from Greece? Was that proposal discussed in the Council? Will Belgium cooperate if necessary? Has Frontex already requested that Belgium provide human assistance in response to the crisis at our external borders? Is the government prepared to send Frontex troops to Greece in response to the demand? Is the government also considering providing bilateral assistance?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u11	Minister, the humanitarian catastrophe in Idlib is, unfortunately, still topical. In north-western Syria, the large region around Idlib, we see a very cynical geopolitical game with the population as the main victim. There is clearly a chain reaction in which civilian targets in Idlib province are deliberately bombed. The presidents Assad and Putin are in the process of ethnic cleansing in that part of Syria, mainly pushing the Sunni population towards Turkey. Turkey feels pressured and opens the valve towards Europe, towards the European Union. Firstly, what can Belgium do in this incredibly complex situation? In any case, we can provide sufficient humanitarian assistance. If needs are to increase, our humanitarian assistance must increase accordingly. I would like to have that debate with you, Minister. Secondly, what is the European Union doing? It is cynical and sad to see that the European Union has not taken action until refugees were on the Turkish-Greek border. After all, it was only then that the European Union realized that it might have to act and have a role to play. It was only when some European directors flew over that zone by helicopter, which reminded me of Vietnamese war films. Until then, the European Union remained very detached from all that conflict. It may not be the most important thing, but it is essential that we in Europe bear in mind that war crimes are being committed by Presidents Assad and Putin. We must remember this, because it must be our objective to bring the perpetrators of war crimes to justice at some point. Discussions are taking place on the European Union's sanctions against Russia. Those sanctions do not concern this dossier, I know they do. It is relevant to remember what is happening in Syria and by whom. What is the status of the situation in Idlib? What is the status of refugees between the European Union and Turkey? What attitude does Belgium take towards Turkey? A meeting was held between Mr Michel and President Erdogan. Erdogan has pushed many people to the Turkish-Greek border through fake news. These people are primarily victims of what the Turkish President has done. Turkey's questions are now clear. Turkey is asking for more money and an extension of the European commitment. This is also contained in the philosophy of the refugee deal between Turkey and the European Union. What's the status here? Turkey has been waiting a long time for the extension of the European commitment. At the same time, there are a number of other questions from Turkey which, according to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, can only be answered with the utmost caution. Belgium must take a firm position on Erdogan's questions. Everything that Europe grants to Turkey must be done under conditions that must be respected. Turkey still does not comply with these conditions to this day. It is clear that Turkey expects a number of steps from the European Union on visa-free travel and the update of the Customs Union. In the current circumstances, this cannot be the case for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. For the Ecolo-Green Group, it is important that the right to asylum is still preserved, but this is linked to the way refugees develop. Refugees should be able to apply for asylum in the territory of the European Union. It will then be decided whether or not refugee status is recognised. If not, the refugee must return. There's no other way. When we talk about the problem of refugees on the Turkish-Greek border, we must also talk about a distribution plan between the European Member States. A country like Greece cannot do this alone. This is clear to anyone who looks at the situation with common sense. What is going on about a possible no-fly zone around a buffer area on the Turkish-Syrian border? A number of people argue for that. What is Belgium's position on this? The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance believes that all possible diplomatic means should be used to create a safe zone, a buffer zone on the Turkish-Syrian border where people can be protected on the run. It is also essential to keep a number of humanitarian corridors open and to create a number of additional ones. This is how the heavily affected Syrian people can be reached. Turkish President Erdogan and Russian President Putin have closed a ceasefire. Can you give us an update on that? Is the cease-fire holding?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u12	Minister, our first priority in this crisis between Turkey and Syria must be the humanitarian aspect. There are children who freeze to death in the border area between Turkey and Syria. We're in the UN Security Council holding the humanitarian record on Syria. So we should not hide behind the big countries. We have already shown initiative with the extension of our resolution 2165 on 10 January 2020, which will allow cross-border assistance to be extended for six months. However, we will have to show even more ambition. After all, I fear that this crisis will last even longer. As far as the humanitarian emergency plan on the ground is concerned, we still see that there is a funding gap. $500 million is needed. The figures say that there is a need for 371 million USD. The Belgian Government has provided an additional 14 million, but in fact these are not additional resources, but they were already foreseen. Germany has already come up with USD 125 million, the European Union with EUR 60 million. More resources will be needed in the future. Above this humanitarian crisis, there is, of course, also the migration crisis that Turkish President Erdogan has used conveniently to put pressure on Europe. He is using the refugees at his own border to get more support and resources from the European Union to tackle the migration crisis and the reception of refugees. The deal is called into question under the impetus of Mrs Merkel, but in the end he has proved his worth in recent years. The deal stopped the flow of refugees. We have to face that, too. A lasting dialogue is the only solution to find a lasting solution. It is good that President Erdogan is now in Brussels to engage in this dialogue. In addition to dialogue, there is also a need for solidarity with Greece and among the European Member States, in order to assume our responsibility for the distribution of refugees. That is what our group stands for. We also believe that more ambition is needed for the European Union. When it comes to the ceasefire, it is not negotiated by the European Union, but it is negotiated between President Erdogan and President Putin. However, we do have some resources in our hands. This is evident from the fact that Erdogan is putting pressure on our European borders. He needs our support. I therefore welcome the fact that Belgium, within the European Union and the UN, is calling for a structural solution. In this we must also remain a pioneer. I have a number of questions about that. My first question concerns the geopolitical situation. What are your views on maintaining the ceasefire today and the fact that it is only negotiated by Turkey and Russia? A Council of Foreign Ministers took place. What position did Belgium take in this regard? Are we going to come to a new plan together? Is that the ultimate objective? I believe that there is an opportunity, both in terms of a peace agreement and a humanitarian corridor. In every crisis there is also an opportunity. I hope that the European Union will also take advantage of this opportunity and will not act as an observer in this region, as has been shown quite clearly in recent months. I hope that the EU will use this crisis to secure a peace agreement or a better humanitarian corridor. Belgium also plays an important diplomatic role in the UN today. How are we going to further achieve this role in the UN Security Council in order to achieve a sustainable solution? Do you consider a new UN Security Council resolution imposing a ceasefire in Idlib as well as a humanitarian corridor, possibly in the near future, as this resolution will end at some point?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u13	Madam President, Minister, my question is very specific about the trial of the Syrians. It is very concrete and I hope that I will also have a very concrete answer later. First of all, let me get this off my chest. I was not good when I saw the footage of Erdogan's reception in Brussels this week. It was like the red carpet was rolled out. He was just not crowned in the Order of Leopold. This has already been done when he came here to conclude his first blackmail deal in 2016. I believe that any self-respecting government should not engage in the conversation until this dictatorship, Erdogan, has immediately and unconditionally stopped its openly and unseen blackmail and aggression towards Greece and the European Union. Only then can we, in my view, enter into the conversation. That should be the normal course of action, but unfortunately it was different. Then I come to my question about the trial of the Syrians. Meanwhile, almost a month ago, the Kurdish authorities in Syria announced their intention to try the imprisoned international IS terrorists themselves. The Home Office then stated that they would verify that news and take a stand only afterwards. Meanwhile, the Kurds announced that they also want to try the ISIS women. In the meantime, the Kurdish administration would have forwarded a proposal to the European Union. Minister, I have a whole series of specific questions on this subject. We have been one month further since the first announcement by the Kurdish authorities. In the meantime, has the Belgian Government effectively verified this case and taken a position on the matter? What's that point of view? Do we have any idea what this trial of IS terrorists will involve by the Kurdish authorities? Has the government taken note of the proposal on the trial of women sent to the European Union by the Kurds? In the press it was reported that ISIS women who had been guilty would be expelled without further proceedings, in consultation with their country. I would like to hear from you what we mean by 'their country'? Could that also be the country of which they have a different dual nationality? Those who would be convicted would also be expelled after serving their sentence to serve their sentence in "their own country." I have the same question on that too. Could that also be the country of which they have a different nationality? Is the government prepared to allow IS women to return to Belgium under these conditions or do you rule out a return in advance? Was this discussed at European level? What was the conclusion? What is the Belgian Government's position on this matter? How many Syrians who are still in Syria still have Belgian nationality and dual nationality respectively? In the meantime, how many of them were taken from Belgian nationality? Is the government prepared to allow Syrians whose Belgian nationality has already been withdrawn to the country under certain circumstances, or are you firmly excluding them from a return?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u14	Madam President, Minister, in recent years, the Turkish-Syrian conflict has often led to the need to walk on eggs in diplomatic and military matters in order to avoid an escalation. That's nothing new. When Turkey started its long-awaited offensive against Syrian government forces in Idlib at the end of February, the situation escalated completely. There was an offensive against Syria with tanks, artillery and elite troops. Russia, an ally of Syria, provided air support at that time. In the meantime, we know that both sides were killed and injured. In no time has the Turkish Government then made the few remaining doubts about any goodwill towards Europe disappear like snow before the sun. Erdogan threatened to blow up the EU migration deal if Turkish military avoturism did not receive NATO support. In the meantime, he has fulfilled his threats. The tens of thousands of illegal migrants on the Turkish-Greek and Turkish-Bulgarian borders are now the physical expression of this. Due to recent Turkish policy actions concerning Syria and NATO, we can no longer talk about a problem or an incident. We can rest assured that the confluence of events in recent weeks is an act of war by Erdogan towards Europe. In addition, our country is in danger of being dragged into it together with NATO. Turkey has asked the US to draw up rocket batteries at the Syrian border to neutralize Russian and Syrian air strikes. At the time when the Turkish army began its offensive, NATO published on its official twitter account: "We are united with our Allies for peace and stability," to which hashtag TurkeyIsNATO and hashtag WeAreNATO added. European President Charles Michel did not do much better with his weak "I just expressed my condolences to Erdogan and my deep concern about the situation in Idlib." Minister, while NATO and the EU are refusing a vigorous response, the Turkish Government is impertinently calling for the support of NATO Member States. To this end, Turkey refers to Article 4 of the NATO Treaty. This Article states that Member States may request consultations when they consider that the territorial integrity, political independence or security of one of the parties is under threat. I would like to point out once again that Turkey was indeed operating outside its own borders, which means that President Erdogan cannot invoke Article 4, since territorial integrity was not at all threatened, certainly not by a foreign power. Turkey itself has been in trouble because of its aggressive foreign policy. The official letter that we received yesterday through the committee secretariat of the head of the Turkish delegation to NATO therefore defies Parliamentary Assembly's imagination, since that letter concludes: "If the regime insists on its ongoing reckless behaviour, Turkey will keep acting on its own." I believe that this is a very precarious situation which requires vigorous action. Minister, consultations have begun within NATO to ask for allies' support. Was Belgium officially informed about a specific question? Turkey invokes Article 4 of the NATO Treaty. How did NATO react to this? How does NATO currently assess whether Turkey will possibly invoke Article 5 of the NATO Treaty? What position will the government take in current cases if Belgium is asked to assist an ally in collective defence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to respect the speaking time. Mrs Ponthier, you only had one question on the agenda. Speaking time only doubles for Members who have several questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u16	Madam President, Minister, in today's topical debate on tensions between Turkey and Syria and on the catastrophic, cataclysmic humanitarian situation of people living on the Greek border, there are obviously many questions about Western responsibility. On the one hand, Donald Trump gave up the Kurds, as we all know, and allowed Turkey to do a dirty job that repulsed us all and sparked a debate in committee and plenary. On the other hand, not only happy to have betrayed our own allies, we push hypocrisy to the point of doing the big back, and here I am no longer talking about the United States but about Europe. Indeed, four years ago, we decided on a deal on the human and the humanitarian. Keep your strangers! Keep these dirty people, these armies of migrants, as some groups call them in this room! Keep them! Here's some money, put them under the carpet, but above all, don't bring them home! It is not only cynical, but also totally ineffective, since for four years Europe has done nothing. It has not attempted to unravel the tangle and to bring about a lasting and consensual solution where everyone would take part in migration policy. Could you enlighten us? Firstly, what is the position of the European Union today, not on the situation we are experiencing today, but above all on the future of the European Union? What solutions will the European Union finally bring in times of crisis, but also for the future, in a sustainable way? Secondly, what is the situation and what is NATO's attitude, knowing that Turkey's provocations and military actions have led this country to come today to seek help when it has taken its own trap? I'd like your opinion and your feeling. What is the Belgian Government's position on this occasion? What is the position of the government defended in the UN Security Council? When I see all this and read my colleague's carte blanche or shocking article, here behind me, I think we'd all be better off reading the fables of the Fountain, especially The Wolf and the Lamb. "The reason for the strongest is always the best" is morality. But there is above all that of the sick animals of the plague, which illustrates how powerful can afford everything with the complicity of the power. "Depending on whether you are powerful or miserable, court judgments will make you white or black," the fable says. Unfortunately, this finding is still valid, a few centuries later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u17	Minister, the offensive by Russian and Syrian troops against the Idlib enclave in north-western Syria has forced nearly a million people to move further north towards the Turkish border. It should be noted that almost 80 per cent of these displaced persons were women and children. At the same time, Russian and Syrian aircraft deliberately target civilian targets such as hospitals, crèches and schools, thereby committing war crimes. Our mandate in the United Nations Security Council obliges us to remind ourselves that these war crimes must be pursued firmly and expeditiously in the context of international criminal justice. Moreover, the situation at the borders of the European Union is becoming alarming. Yesterday, again, I saw frightful images of a young Syrian, yet rescued from the Idlib enclave, shot by a rubber bullet fired by the Greek Coast Guard at the Greek-Turkish border. These images shame us and shame our values and the freedoms and rights that the European Union must defend. Minister, therefore, there are four questions. First, how Belgium has acted within the United Nations Security Council to allow unimpeded access to humanitarian organizations and to maintain humanitarian corridors. I know how difficult the situation around the Security Council table is, particularly because of Russia's threats to impose its veto. Secondly, I know that you were present at the Foreign Ministers' meeting last Friday in Zagreb, Croatia. What was the concrete outcome of the meeting to prevent any escalation of the conflict and to ensure that crimes did not go unpunished? This is important because as long as impunity continues, Russia and Syria will still allow themselves to bomb civilian targets. Thirdly, last year, a conference was held here in Brussels to help Syria and the countries of the region in the future. Do the European Union and the United Nations intend to co-chair the Brussels conference on aid to the region for a fourth time? Finally, in the face of the influx of refugees who are engulfed in dismal and deplorable conditions along the border with Turkey, how does the EU intend to protect these displaced populations at risk and guarantee them protection as refugees?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u18	Madam President, Minister, after all these years of misery in Syria and its surroundings, one would expect a real-politik awareness to begin to penetrate Parliament. I do not have the impression that this is the case if I listen to the questions asked. The fact that Europe is excluded from this issue is, of course, because all other 'participants' rely on their own interests. Europe seems to be paying too little attention to this. The Turkey deal was a realpolitik deal. This was a good deal at the time, given the situation at that time. The deal was obviously an opportunity to buy time to keep border control in its own hands in a more effective way. President Erdogan is portrayed here as the bearable devil. I can go along with this, but I am not of Turkish origin, so I do not have to judge it. Erdogan tries to defend Turkey's interests in his own way. Let us confront our own interests in a realistic and above all self-conscious way. How does Belgium respond to Erdogan's questions to defend his interests? That is not Belgium's problem, I think. However, Erdogan is asking this question within NATO. Article 4 was invoked. Article 5 may also be invoked. I have already asked a question about this in the past. In my view, Turkish interests cannot correspond to Belgian interests. What does the government think about this? Turkey is increasingly playing an active role outside the Turkish borders, as an aggressor and offender. Turkey does not respect international law when it acts in Syria. Moreover, they are doing so more and more actively, while they used to do so through proxies. I would like to ask a few questions, because it has recently been said in the media that people with Belgian nationality, perhaps even double nationality, are involved. The questions I would like to ask you are as follows. How many warriors of Belgian nationality, regardless of which organization they are associated with, are currently in Turkey-controlled areas in Syria, in particular but not exclusively in the province of Idlib, according to your information? How many of them were already convicted in Belgium, possibly by default, and are still the subject of persecution? How many of them took Belgian nationality? Is information exchanged with Turkey on fighters of Belgian nationality employed by groups with direct or indirect support from the Turkish army? Finally, were fighters of Belgian nationality also transferred by Turkey to Libya in support of the Government of National Accord? The bizarre fact may well be that Syrian warriors are now fighting side by side with a NATO ally, which is, of course, over with absolute madness.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u19	Mr Minister, although we have already been able to take stock of the situation on the Union's border with the Prime Minister last week in plenary, we need to look at what is behind this humanitarian disaster and the situation facing Europe. As Europeans, we have a heavy responsibility because we have left certain situations as they are, without really acting. That had already been the case when we had to deal with the consequences of our inaction in the Syrian conflict in 2015. With what is happening in Idlib, I fear that we will know the same situation and I hope that we can learn from what we have experienced in the past. There is currently a halt to the actions carried out by the Russian military and the Syrian army. Things seem to be calmed down, but the humanitarian situation on the ground is serious. Many Syrians have moved and are on the Greek-Turkish border. Turkey, our "alloy" – since it is a member of NATO – puts pressure on the entire European Union. The President of the European Council, Charles Michel, visited the country last week and in the meantime met Mr Erdogan. [[I'm]] Minister, what was our country's position on the Turkish demands? Will we provide humanitarian assistance as requested by the international community and the United Nations? What will be our position? If you cannot answer this question, it is not too serious because your colleague will certainly be able to answer it. Finally, how can we help to ensure that this new situation is dealt with in an integrated way within the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u20	Mr Minister, following the recent dramatic events in Syria, on which I do not come back because they have been extensively explained by my colleagues, the Russian and Turkish presidents met last Thursday in the Kremlin. At the end of this meeting, Vladimir Putin and Recep Tayyip Erdogan announced a provisional ceasefire in Idlib. This cease-fire came into effect on Friday. A 12-kilometre wide security corridor has been established, in which Russian and Turkish forces will patrol from 15 March 2020. In concrete terms, this agreement allows the Syrian forces to retain the territories acquired thanks to their offensive of the last three months on Idlib, one of the last strongholds of the rebels supported by Ankara. Minister, as you know, in 2018, an agreement on the provisional cessation of fighting had already been reached, and then violated many times. The agreement reached last week also seems particularly fragile, and in all cases it is a temporary freeze on the conflict. Minister, how do you analyze this agreement? You met your European counterparts at the end of the week. I imagine discussions have taken place around this ceasefire. What came out of it? What flexibility does the European Union have in order to influence compliance with this agreement? What mechanism exists to enforce compliance? Finally, do you have any information on the expected duration of this cease-fire?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u21	Madam President, Minister, in the introduction of my fellow Members, the question was clearly raised as to whether, and in what way, Europe is really trying to dive into the improbable humanitarian crisis and takes it sufficiently to heart. Given the scale of the humanitarian crisis, there is little evidence that Europe is inclined to provide real solutions. My questions are essentially about this, regardless of the difficulty of the conflicts and the role of individuals. What are the results of the consultations with Turkish President Erdogan, more specifically on the situation in North-West Syria and on the Greek-Turkish border? Have you been in contact with your Turkish counterpart as a result of this situation? If so, what is the result? What is your opinion on the evolution, in the short term, in the relationship with Turkey? In the introductions, we have been constantly hearing about tensions, but what do you expect from the evolution of the relationship with Turkey as regards possible solutions? What is your opinion on setting up a no-fly zone? How strongly should Belgium and Europe insist on this? What were the responses to this in the EU Foreign Affairs Council? What opportunities do you see for taking steps in this direction, whether within the EU or not? Were there other concrete conclusions in the Council that really require a very urgent improvement in the humanitarian situation in the area?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u22	Mr Minister, I really feel that Europe has abdicated its attempt to resolve this conflict that continues to ravage Syria. We have already talked about this in plenary. Today there is unnamed brutality against civilians in Idlib's pocket. War crimes are committed daily by Russian aviation and Bashar al-Assad. In the opposite direction, it is hardly better, since we find Islamist militias and the Turkish army which has plunged very strongly into Syrian territory. This is perhaps the reason why this does not give rise to much emotion in European public opinion. Indeed, we are in the presence of two camps in which no one can really recognize himself. Meanwhile, under the bombs, one million to one and a half million civilians endure these atrocities. Once again, I have the impression that Europe has, for a long time, hijacked the eyes of this conflict. We have never sent to this zone of conflict, in an attempt to resolve it, the three high figures who had been sent to the border between Greece and Turkey, for 15,000 migrants. As we have now been members of the Security Council for a number of months and as our presidency ends, I really ask you what efforts we are making there and what we have made to ensure that the precarious cease-fire in Idlib can be extended and that this conflict ends. This will not be the last battle, and we already know it. Turkey has not given up invading other cities in northern Syria, on the border with what the Syrian Kurds call Rojava. Bashar al-Assad himself has not given up conquering other territories. Finally, what substantial efforts can you make, Minister, to try to stop this bloodbath, which killed 400,000 people, who threw millions more on the roads? Also, because we have done nothing, this bloodbath weakens our European project. That seems to me to be the essential question today. In addition, we are faced with this totally scandalous instrumentalization of refugees and migrants by Turkey. This should not allow us to forget our values, our fundamental principles, the conventions that we have signed internationally. That seems essential to me. We are aware of this instrumentalization. In this pressure exerted by Turkey on Europe, is there this will to force our hand to relocate refugees in Turkey to the areas now occupied by Turkey in northern Syria? Is that what Turkey is seeking through this instrumentalization? I join those who believe that it is absolutely necessary to document and strongly condemn – which I have not heard from the Security Council – the war crimes committed today in Syria. I have no memory of a war that has, at this point, targeted hospitals, schools, civilians and NGOs, in such a way that closed doors are organised on what is happening in Syria today. There are very few journalists and very few NGOs who come to the aid of these people. These journalists and NGOs know that they themselves will be targeted by belligerents. As you know, I come back from north-eastern Syria, where the humanitarian situation is very worrying, since 350,000 people have been displaced. What do you and Europe intend to do to help these people? Some of them are in extremely precarious situations, living in winter conditions without tents, blankets or food. They have very little access to health care. There is also a request for assistance from the authorities and the few local NGOs that can help them. I will conclude by stressing that it would be time for Europe to assert itself as a pacifying power, a power of proposals for peace. It is extremely important to seek to stabilize this country and to be able to intervene both at the level of the Security Council and within the European Union, so that Europeans are present on the spot to ensure stability and security, to ensure humanitarian aid and to enable the reconstruction and return, where possible, of people who have already taken refuge elsewhere in the region where it is already possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u23	Madam President, for several months in Idlib, tensions have intensified as a result of military operations by the Syrian regime, which is trying to take over the latter stronghold from the Syrian opposition. These tensions culminated on 27 February, when the Syrian army launched an attack killing at least 36 Turkish soldiers. Damascus and Moscow claim to be part of the fight against terrorism. In particular, Turkey wished to avoid further migration to Turkish borders if the Syrian regime regained control of the territory. The humanitarian consequences of the recent escalation are obviously considerable. There have been nearly one million internally displaced persons since early December. There are frequent violations of international humanitarian law, including attacks by the Syrian regime and its allies on civilian infrastructure such as medical posts and schools. The fight against terrorism cannot justify that. Belgium strongly condemns these violations. Turkish President Erdogan and Russian President Putin met for six hours in Moscow on 5 March. This meeting resulted in an agreement. Mr De Vriendt, Mr De Maegd, this agreement is technically a complementary protocol to the pre-existing Sochi agreement. It includes various aspects: a ceasefire on Idlib, which took effect last Thursday at midnight for an indefinite period; the creation of a security corridor along the M4 highway strategy; the establishment of joint patrols from 15 March and a commitment to ensure that humanitarian assistance reaches the 1 million internally displaced persons in that province. The deal is fragile. Turkey and Russia do not have absolute control over militias and other parties to the conflict. Turkish checkpoints are vulnerable. Various violations had been reported, but it appeared that the ceasefire had been more or less respected to date. Mr De Maegd, you're asking me if there was any discussion about the ceasefire in Zagreb. It was concluded just before the extraordinary council. This is alluded to in the declaration, with an appeal to all parties to establish a durable ceasefire, to guarantee the protection of civilians and to enable the delivery of humanitarian assistance by the international community. Can we ensure that the agreement is respected? Do we have mechanisms to do this? Turkey and Russia do not subject their mutual commitments to the supervision of an external actor. My answer is therefore unfortunately negative. You know, however, that we have long advocated, both in New York and in Brussels, for a ceasefire and a de-escalation of the conflict. On 27 February, together with 13 of my EU colleagues, I wrote an opinion paper on the situation in Idlib, in which we called, among other things, for the Syrian regime and its allies to come to a ceasefire. In particular, Belgium presented an approach to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Guterres, together with eight other members of the Security Council. Mrs Van Hoof, we are continuing these efforts, which have so far been met with the Russian and Chinese vetoes. Mr Cogolati and Mr De Vriendt, it is true that a four-way summit had been discussed, including Mrs Merkel and Mr Macron. That was Mr Erdogan's wish to change the report of the meeting, but Mr Putin opposed it. It is difficult for the European Union to impose its presence at this summit. I would like to highlight the large number of contacts at the highest level between the European Union and Turkey and Russia. I am not going to list it for you, but both Charles Michel and Mr Borrell and Mrs von der Leyen have been very active on the phone and in the field. This continues since Mr Erdogan was in Brussels yesterday. Last week it was also decided to mobilise EUR 60 million extra for humanitarian aid to Northwest Syria. The Dutch proposal for a no-fly zone, to which Mr Crombez referred in his question, was ultimately not included in last week's Foreign Affairs Council conclusions. The possibility of obtaining a decision on such a no-fly zone by the UN Security Council seems rather limited, given Russia's position in the Security Council. Mr Cogolati, your question included a conference in Brussels on the future of Syria. As you probably know, High Representative Borrell confirmed the holding of the fourth edition of the Brussels Conference on Supporting the Future of Syria and the Region on 29 and 30 June. Belgium endorses the statement adopted by the extraordinary Foreign Affairs Council on 6 March. The EU expressed concern about the situation at the Greek-Turkish border, expressed solidarity with Greece and other EU Member States, and rejected Turkey's use of migratory pressure for political purposes. I would like to answer more specific questions about the humanitarian situation in and around Idlib, for example on the possibility of ensuring a humanitarian corridor. Or Belgium's specific efforts in this area. In reply to questions put by committee chairman Mrs Van Hoof, Mrs Liekens, Mr De Vriendt, Mr Crombez, Mr Lacroix, Mr Cogolati and Mr Dallemagne. The EU expects Turkey to comply with the commitments set out in the 2016 Joint Declaration. The EU takes note of the outcome of the talks between Russia and Turkey in Moscow and calls for a lasting ceasefire, the protection of the civilian population and unhindered humanitarian access. The European Union is already mobilising additional humanitarian aid and also stresses the importance of extending UN Security Council Resolution 2165 allowing cross-border access to humanitarian aid. In order to answer as fully as possible the many questions asked on this subject, let me make it clear that this fundamental resolution – No. 2165, carried out by Belgium and the German and Kuwaiti co-plumas – was initially to last six months, but was extended to a period of twelve months. As a humanitarian plum holder for Syria, with Germany and Kuwait, our country was responsible for the last extension on January 10. While the resolution previously enjoyed unanimous support in the Security Council, Russia and China have been abstaining since 2017. The argument is that the situation on the ground has changed and that the Syrian authorities have taken control of the majority of the territory. As a result, Russia in particular is increasingly reluctant to agree to extend the cross-border mechanism. Moscow believes that, in the current circumstances, the delivery of aid should go through Damascus. However, in practice, this is a major logistical challenge. Many implementing partners do not have, more or very few offices in Damascus planned for this purpose. Damascus is far from the most underprivileged areas, whose supply lines often cross the internal front lines and an inhospitable geography. Moreover, aid may be politicized by the Syrian regime and/or diverted by militias still active throughout the country. After weeks of negotiations with the parties concerned, the penholders finally decided to put a compromise text to the vote on 20 December 2019. This text was based on three posts for 12 months. The border crossing in Al-Ramtha at the border with Jordan was cancelled because this transition had not been active for a long time. However, Russia, followed by China, vetoed the compromise and put on the table an alternative text based on two transitions for a period of six months, in Bab Al-Salam and Bab Al-Hawa, both on the border with Turkey, near Idlib and Aleppo. This text contained a series of amended modalities which would further reduce aid. This Russian text was in turn blocked by the US, the UK and France. Negotiations were resumed after the turn of the year. In the end, the UN agreed to a compromise text which proposed a reverse of two posts for a period of six months. The text also includes the mandate to report within one month on possible alternatives to the Al-Ya'rubiyah border crossing at the Iraqi border so that it may be adopted during a subsequent extension, in July 2020. After all, Al-Ya'rubiyah was an important supply route for medical supplies. Resolution 2504 was finally adopted on 10 January 2020, a few hours before the expiry of the mandate of the cross-border resolution, with 11 votes and the abstention of Russia, China, the United States and the United Kingdom. Meanwhile, the Secretary-General of the United Nations has also indicated that, in the current circumstances, cross-border and cross-cutting humanitarian assistance remains necessary. As long as the Syrian authorities do not speed up and simplify their procedure for the admission of aid via Damascus, the Tal Abyad border post further east of the border with Turkey would be the most viable alternative to Al Yarubia. As July approaches, Belgium will continue its efforts to extend the resolution once again and to increase the number of border posts available. Mrs Liekens, Mr Dallemagne, Syria is a priority area for Belgian humanitarian aid, including in 2020. Substantial funding is therefore foreseen, including the significant contribution to the Syria Humanitarian Pooled Fund, i.e. €7 million via the Syria Cross-border Humanitarian Fund and €7 million via the Inside Syria Fund. It is true that since the renewal of the "Syria Cross-border" resolution I mentioned above, funding from the Syria Cross-border Humanitarian Fund has been allocated only to the north-west, a focus area of attention given the ongoing fighting. As far as the north-east is concerned, the Inside Syria Fund allows funding in this area. We still have three ongoing project funding: Unicef, UNRWA and WFP, in north-eastern Syria. My colleague Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Cooperation is studying with his services how to increase humanitarian aid specifically for this region. Mrs Van Hoof, you asked about our efforts at the UN and a possible new UN Security Council resolution. In my opinion, such a new UN resolution is highly unlikely. Belgium, together with Kuwait and Germany, has convened several UN Security Council meetings since April 2019 to address the escalation of violence in and around Idlib and to call on all parties, in particular Syria, to comply with international humanitarian law. Mr. Dallemagne, your question was also about our efforts in the Security Council. As you know, on 29 August 2019 Belgium, together with Kuwait and Germany, tabled a draft resolution calling for an immediate ceasefire in Idlib. Despite intense negotiations, Russia and China have chosen to veto. On 28 February, an emergency meeting of the United Nations Security Council was held, at which the Council called on all parties to de-escalate. The United Nations Secretary-General's Special Envoy for Syria also called for every effort to establish an immediate ceasefire. Russia requested a closed VNVR consultation on 6 March 2020 to explain the Russian-Turkish agreement for Idlib. The members of the NVR received the news of the ceasefire positive, but also expressed scepticism about its constancy, in view of past experience. A number of members of the United Nations, including Belgium, also stressed that the fight against terrorism cannot be an excuse to violate international humanitarian law. Mrs Samyn, in reply to your question about the role of NATO in general and NATO's tweet, I can tell you that this tweet was above all a sign of solidarity with our ally. The NATO North Atlantic Council was indeed called together on the basis of Turkey's call for Article 4 of the Washington Convention. Article 4 concerns political consultation within the Alliance and provides that the Parties shall consult each other whenever, in the opinion of one of them, the territorial integrity, political independence or security of one of the Parties is threatened. Mr De Roover, in reply to your question on Turkey's question to NATO and Article 5, I can tell you that Turkey has requested that measures be taken to ensure its security at the said meeting. These measures were currently decided in 2015 and included Patriot defence missiles and flights with AWACS aircraft. The countries will study this Turkish demand in more detail. The allies expressed their sympathy and solidarity with Turkey. Our NATO representative referred to the need for de-escalation and a ceasefire and also referred to the work of our country in the UN Security Council on humanitarian access in Syria. Note that Article 4 on consultation with NATO took place before the development of the tense situation at the Turkish-Greek border was fully clear. Mrs Ponthier, you had a question about the possibility that Turkey could also invoke Article 5 of the NATO Treaty. There is currently no question for Turkey of using Article 5. If that question arises, the federal government will take a position within NATO in consultation with our allies. Mrs Pas, I will try to answer your ten questions about the FTFs, albeit not in the same order, for which I apologise. With regard to the situation of the Foreign Terrorist Fighters, I have also taken note of the proposal by the Syrian-Kurdish authorities to bring the FTFs to justice in eastern Syria. As far as is known, it is the intention of the Syrian-Kurdish authorities to also try female FTFs. However, the possible return of mature FTFs is not at issue and the position of the Belgian Government has not changed in this respect. The details of this proposal, which were explained by the European Institute of Peace, need to be further developed. My services are in regular contact with the Syrian-Kurdish authorities to discuss this further and to better determine what legal support is expected and what the possibilities are for them to be met, taking into account, among other things, the legal and international implications that it would entail. In addition, what needs to be done about people with multiple nationalities alongside the Belgians must be examined. The Belgian Government has therefore not yet taken a formal position on the proposal of the Syrian-Kurdish authorities. Of the 37 adult Belgians who are in the camps in Northern Syria, 29 have a second nationality as well as the Belgian. From three of these, Belgian nationality was recently taken away by judicial means. Since the decision to lose Belgian nationality could not yet be formally served on the persons concerned, the parties concerned can still appeal against that decision and a return to Belgium cannot be excluded. Mr De Roover, for information on the warriors who are or are not in Turkey-controlled areas and whether they have already been convicted, I should refer you to the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice respectively. Only information about the possible arrests of Belgian nationals in Turkey is exchanged with Turkey. Mrs Jadin, your question was about the situation at European borders and following the Turkish decision on refugees. The Turkish authorities' announcements from 28 February that they would no longer retain migrants wishing to travel to Europe caused an influx of migrants to the Greek-Turkish border. The Greek authorities claim to have prevented 24,000 people from crossing the land border from Turkey between 29 February and 2 March. Since then, the number of irregular crossings of the land border has been more or less under control. However, between 7,000 and 20,000 potential migrants are still in the Turkish province of Edirne, along the Greek border, according to figures provided by Frontex. The Aegean islands, for their part, experienced a sharp increase in the number of arrivals following the declarations of the Turkish authorities: 1,700 migrants arrived in the islands between 29 February and 2 March. For several weeks now, riots have been shaking the islands because of the overpopulation of migrants and the negative consequences for the inhabitants. They were opposed to the construction of closed centres and demanded massive transfers of migrants to the continent. Mr De Vriendt, you had a question about the European level consultation on Turkey's decision on refugees in Syria. Indeed, several meetings have taken place over the last few days. An extraordinary Justice and Home Affairs Council was held on 4 March to discuss the situation at the external borders of the European Union with Turkey, with the Ministers of the Interior having adopted a declaration expressing their support for Greece, but also for Bulgaria, Cyprus and the other Member States which could be affected by recent events while emphasizing respect for international and European law within the framework of the external borders of the European Union. The declaration recognises the migration burden on Turkey but condemns the use of migrants for political purposes. It calls for Turkey to implement the 2016 EU-Turkey Declaration. At the operational level, it announces a range of measures for the benefit of Greece, including the strengthening of Frontex at the Greek-Turkish border, up to 700 million financial aid for the management of migration and borders in Greece, and the activation of the European Civil Protection Mechanism to provide assistance to migrants. Belgium has offered material assistance via B-FAST, which has already arrived. The implementation of the EU-Turkey declaration is not smooth, but its validity is not called into question. It is important to keep all channels open with Ankara in order to be able to remedy the shortcomings found. Belgium supports the continuation of aid to Turkey for the reception of the four million refugees in its territory. Mrs Jadin, you asked me how many Belgians are registered in Greece and Bulgaria. There are currently and officially 746 Belgians registered in Bulgaria and 2,563 Belgians registered in Greece.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u24	Madam President, Minister, whether we are talking about human rights violations in Turkey, war crimes against the Kurds, the many journalists and opponents of the Erdogan regime in prison in Turkey, the permanent occupation of part of Cyprus, illegal gas drilling in the territorial waters of an EU Member State or the outright blackmail policy at the European external borders: Belgium and the European Union continue to treat Turkey with velvet gloves. It is incomprehensible that the EU has not yet learned any lessons from it. Mrs Pas mentioned that Erdogan was received yesterday in Brussels with all due respect. With that he got the footage he needs for his home audience. At the same time, the opportunity was lost to make it clear in clear terms that there are limits to everything, literally and figuratively. Erdogan didn't hear that message yesterday. On the contrary, the ruling on the extension of the existing debt instrument or, more precisely, the no longer existing debt instrument deal raises the fear that there will be a further discussion on the visa waiver and the extension of the existing customs union. Those are all Turkish demands which should simply be unspeakable for Europe, especially in the circumstances. The EU must finally stop spawning politics towards Ankara. She must use her economic power as a matter of urgency. Instead of new sweets, tough sanctions must be put in place. Cease the existing customs union, impose sanctions on imports of Turkish products, suspend the issuing of visas for travel from Turkey, cancel all financial support and privileged relations: it is time for Europe to speak with Erdogan the language in which he has been speaking with us for years. Apparently, that's the only language he understands.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u25	Colleagues, some of them, including Mr De Roover, mentioned realpolitik. I would like to tell them that, at the end of 2015, early 2016 here in Parliament, I regularly debated the refugee deal between the European Union and Turkey. We were very sceptical about that. We were afraid of blackmail and we felt that the European Union should still be able to develop a policy of refugees itself. The member of the government I was debating this with was not convinced of that. He thought the refugee deal was a good thing. In the end, that same member of the government also approved the refugee deal. That member of the government was Theo Francken. So if I now hear the N-VA fulminating against the refugee deal, I think that is totally hypocritical. The N-VA in the government co-approved the refugee deal. Mr De Roover, we really have no lessons to learn about realpolitik. You were very naive at the time. We still believe that the European Union itself should be able to develop a refugee policy rather than outsource refugee policy to someone like President Erdogan. We can't figure out how to get rid of war fugitives. Some Members have not even mentioned in their question the fact that there are war refugees and what we really need to do with them. That's amazing, isn't it? Minister, on humanitarian assistance, we reiterate our call for new resources for 2020. These new resources have been promised, but, of course, an additional effort is needed compared to last year. We will continue to monitor this. The European Union is once again remarkably absent, as Mr Dallemagne said and I have already noted in my question. I hear new humanitarian assistance is being announced. So once again we confine ourselves to the role of an ambulancer instead of a geopolitical player. If it is not possible with the EU-27, it must only be with fewer Member States, but we must become a diplomatic tiger. You yourself admitted it when you spoke about the role of Russia in this matter. Russia is not only bombing innocent civilians, with civilian infrastructure being deliberately hit in order to trigger a migration of the population and apply the scorched earth's tactics. Russia is also obstructing additional humanitarian corridors, humanitarian aid, at UN level. What are we waiting for to criticise and reject that position of Russia? What are we waiting for to establish a gradual sanction regime, to tell Russia to respect international law and human rights? Europe can play a role in this. If that is not possible with the 27 Member States, then it must be done with a front line of fewer European Member States. Minister, I would like to ask you to be there with Belgium and to be forerunner. You really need to think about that. The European Union cannot continue to deposit money to compensate for the damage caused by Russia and do nothing against that Russian action. We're really bumping into the limits of what's feasible. Mr De Roover, what I am saying now is pure realpolitik, with which you will undoubtedly agree. Maybe we can even become allies in that. At UN level, we are a penholder for the humanitarian situation in Syria, so we have a forum there. We absolutely must remain active in this area. Minister, I hear you saying that a new resolution in the UN Security Council is very unlikely. Even if that is very unlikely, it is desirable that new UN resolutions should be adopted. Since we are a penholder, we can take initiatives in many areas, humanitarian but certainly also diplomatic, especially when it comes to the buffer zone. At the Turkish-Syrian border, there must be a guaranteed safe zone where refugees can end up, even temporarily. That is what we must aim for, and I do not know whether we should make the result depend on diplomatic meetings between Erdogan, Putin and Syria. We must demand stronger guarantees. Then this can be done through the UN Security Council or the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we have made a great deal of effort in the framework of the UN Security Council and the two resolutions. The one resolution was about a ceasefire and its renewal has come up against the vetos of China and Russia. It is worrying that Russia is putting Assad's position at the centre, so as not to create a transition process. Russia seems to want to keep a grip on the situation and come to a solution unilaterally with Erodgan and Syria. It is worrying that this is no longer possible in a multilateral context. As far as humanitarian aid is concerned, there has been a good negotiation from Belgium to extend the corridor until July, but then we will have to ensure that there is a renewal for the subsequent period. There is work to be done within the UN to reach agreement on this. I have not yet mentioned the European Union. We have always limited ourselves to the Turkey deal. We supported that, but it is dangerous to limit ourselves to that. The crises lead to more crises. What is happening behind Syrian borders has an impact on Europe. We have an interest in a stable Syria and, as a result of enlargement, the Middle East. We have discussed the Middle East many times in this committee. This was not just about Syria, Iran and Iraq. The European Union must be able to shake geopolitically more than the refugee deal. This time we must use a lever for a peace agreement that is not limited to Turkey and Syria. We must be able to pursue a Middle East policy at our borders in the geopolitical field. I hope that you will make the necessary efforts and continue to press for them, including in the Council and with our European President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. It is clear that the current situation requires a strong policy, perhaps also on behalf of the Belgian Government, but above all on behalf of the EU and NATO. They must absolutely demonstrate that they are not served by the blackmail practices we face today and must make a fist. Turkey is heavily dependent on the EU and Europe has a number of means to counter this. It must therefore dare to use its power and perhaps, in turn, threaten to terminate a number of privileges such as the customs union, a permanent cessation of accession negotiations or additional trade sanctions. In the meantime, we ask that Belgium call on the Turkish ambassador. We should evaluate diplomatic relations with Ankara. Finally, Minister, I would like to talk about the communication that NATO and the EU are sending to the world. After all, it is far from forceful. The way we're communicating now is a real joke. By the way, with his condolences to Erdogan for the death of some Turkish soldiers in Syria, Charles Michel legitimized Turkey's presence in Syria. So he's out of his jurisdiction. Instead of calling for solidarity with Turkey, NATO and the EU would better express their condolences to Greece and Bulgaria. After all, it is those Member States that are currently under enormous pressure and are urgently requesting assistance from the other Member States. They're really counting on that assistance. Please don't let them down.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answers. You have announced positive things. Indeed, when Belgium is manoeuvring, it takes on its responsibilities and does it well. You have acted with some efficiency in the United Nations Security Council. In any case, the government has taken proactive steps. It is true that resolutions are jeopardized by vetoes or abstentions. I was very surprised because I had escaped, to learn that even the United Kingdom, together with the United States, had abstained on a resolution. In any case, I note that with Kuwait and Germany, you did the job and even more, because you did what was necessary. I have to report it. On the other hand, where I see less of Belgium's action, it is within the European Union. I do not see how we weigh on its decisions and on how the Zagreb conclusions have been reached. Three decisions had been taken: a call for a lasting ceasefire, as you recalled; the security and protection of civilians; and the delivery of humanitarian aid. This remains in the state of statements, perhaps not vague, but very general. I appreciate the idea put forward by our colleague Wouter De Vriendt: on such topics, whether urgent or not, we could, together with other countries, become the driving force behind a significant change in European policy. In this way, it would be much more proactive, diplomatic and military, resist blackmail and indicate a path that can be followed. In fact, Turkey wants Europe when it comes to billions, but it refuses it under other circumstances. You said it yourself: "We are not invited to meetings between this country and Russia." It is a very bitter observation that we form. Much work still needs to be done. I will not go back to everything that concerns the humanitarian aspect and the protection of civilians, because my colleagues have done so with great talent and much better than I have. In any case, this is an essential aspect for my group and myself. Beyond the diplomatic, military and economic stakes, there are people who are alien to all this and who suffer long-term in their flesh.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u29	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your long answer. I would like to return to two points in particular. The first on violations of international humanitarian law, and therefore the war crimes that are committed by both Bashar al-Assad's troops and his Russian ally in the Idlib enclave. I have heard you have very clear words: "Belgium strongly condemns violations of international humanitarian law." I want to say: this is a good first step in the right direction. But I must tell you that I agree here with my colleagues, Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mr Christophe Lacroix, when they say that it is important, today, that the European nations draw the conclusions of war crimes, of violations of international humanitarian law committed on the Syrian battlefield. It is important, at some point, to take the next step and to say that these violations of international humanitarian law cannot go unpunished and that they must be prosecuted. The framework for international criminal justice clearly exists for this. We could even go further. My College, Mr Wouter De Vriendt, said that we could imagine sanctions against Russia as a result of the very serious violations of international law that were committed on the spot. Today, in the European Union, we must dare to talk about it. It is important that the European Union truly resumes its place as a major, geopolitical player on the world stage. Certainly, when you see the butcher shop that is happening in Idlib. The second part of my reply concerns the situation at the borders of the European Union. I heard you, she'd be under control. You regret the negative consequences for the inhabitants, but you are announcing an additional 700 million help to strengthen Frontex on the spot. On the other hand, I didn't hear you on the shelters burned down. I did not hear you about these migrants, these refugees, these men completely naked, forcibly stripped by coast guards, by European border guards. I didn't hear you either about these migrants, these women, these children being robbed by customs officers just to be able to strengthen the push back. I think it is important, on the part of our Belgian diplomacy too, to really hear very firm, very clear statements about the situation on the Greek-Turkish border and to be able to also assert, since Belgian diplomacy, that these push backs are in violation of the European Convention on Human Rights, are in violation of our most important values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u30	Minister, although Mr De Vriendt says that I am fully in favour of the refugee deal, he will be able to read in the report that is coming that I have just done the opposite. I'm assuming he was inconspicuous for a moment. But I felt a certain rapprochement, perhaps for the first time in history, when I heard someone from the Green Group say the word realpolitik. But when it comes to tabling resolutions, our interpretation of the concept of realpolitik is something else. I have also heard that we must do something about the Russian actions. You mean sanctions, I suppose. I do not want to change the regime, nor do I want to change Russia here, but I would like to point out that Turkey is active in the territory of another country against all international rules of law. We can see that today. Minister, when you say that Turkey asked for help to ensure its own security and that there is a need for de-escalation, I think that Turkey could make a major contribution to this by not engaging itself as actively as it is today outside the port. If the question arises for support under Article 5 of the NATO Treaty, you say that the government will decide at that time. That answer makes me a little suspicious. This gives the impression that you might be inclined to accept it. I hope I misunderstand your answer in that case. You have said that I should address colleagues of yours, Minister Geens and De Crem. In my opinion, three of the four questions I was able to put to you. I can imagine that my second question would rather fall within the competence of Minister None. However, I would have liked to have had an answer from you on the other questions. I hope that I can reach an agreement with our green friends on the concept of realpolitik and that this may go a little further than the submission of paper resolutions, here or in some UN organisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u31	Minister, thank you for your very detailed answers. I'd like to go back to two things. First, I would like to welcome the fact that, when we were called upon to play the role of "penholder" in international forums such as the United Nations, we had the opportunity to take on our responsibilities and some initiatives, even though the international community did not follow us on certain considerations. I believe that our country has demonstrated responsibility and has always distinguished itself by its commitment to the defence of human rights and international law. I would add that Turkey has also committed violations of international law in the course of its actions on Syrian territory. I think it is useful to recall this, even if it will not facilitate the search for solutions to the problems facing the international community. At European level, you participated last week in the Zagreb conference in an attempt to find solutions to what is already set to be a new migration crisis. I can only urge once again all the Member States of the European Union to try to speak one language and find integrated solutions for the whole Union. The future of our democracy in Europe is also at stake.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u32	Madam President, I will be brief. I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for his detailed response and to bounce back on his analysis of the ceasefire agreement, stressing the mutual commitment of Russia and Turkey to ensure that humanitarian aid reaches the hundreds of thousands of people affected by the fighting in Syria. I urge you, Minister, to press constantly in every room possible for this to be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. If I want to say one thing in my reply, it seems that Europe is no longer trying to stop or even reduce the very serious violations of human rights and crimes against humanity. In fact, we are going to let this get to us diplomatically. Now there is a veto by Russia, then again by the United States and the United Kingdom, and everything goes on and on. I agree with what has been said here before, and I do not know by whom: if nothing can be done in a substantial humanitarian context, Europe must no longer decide with all 27 countries if necessary. Europe will have to react someday, won't it? The humanitarian tragedy is so great that Europe has been trying and searching for far too long. The focus should not be on the story of whether Erdogan is a good or a bad person. I don't know that either. I know that in December he received more than 3.5 million refugees from Syria in his country. I know. Whether that was realpolitik interests me less. It is true that Europe must develop a migration policy, but that has not been the case all along. If there hadn't been a Turkey deal, there wouldn't have been anything. Those refugees are there by now. Minister, because of the humanitarian crisis and the crimes against the people there, my only appeal is: be firmer, and tell Europe on behalf of Belgium that we have lost enough time now. Europe is indeed toothless. All the other countries concerned take their own stand, and we undergo it. I think we should stop going down. The human drama is too great.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u34	Madam President, Minister, I would like first of all to welcome the sincere efforts you are making on some of the issues. But you will agree with me that, fundamentally, Europe is still facing this crisis, which has enormous consequences for our European project, beyond the fact that this conflict is eradicating an entire country, a whole people, from the map. We are subjected to the ukases and vetoes of each other. We are not indeed a major political player. We made this choice, from the beginning of this conflict. We did it knowingly. Europe did not get involved in this conflict by thinking that it would be too complicated, that it would cause a war that could be regionalised and that there might be tensions. However, we have had all this and more, since we have had the Islamic State. But we continue not to really want to weigh, raise the voice or punch on the table as Khrushchev once did at the General Assembly of the Security Council. We continue to opt for a discreet, kind diplomacy that tries to find, when possible, a little bit of oxygen, air or humanitarian aid for the population, when Russia or China will. We're even closing doors to humanitarian aid. I have witnessed there that Damascus's aid never arrives in the north of the country. It's obvious. These are not logistical issues. There is indeed no question for Damascus to go and rescue these people. I honestly believe that it is time to see that what has already happened could continue for a long time to come, could continue to grow and have extremely serious consequences for our own security. Europeans really need to get together. I have not heard anyone really propose that a European Union force, under the guise of a Security Council resolution, take the place of the Americans in north-eastern Syria. I've never heard it. This has never been proposed or mentioned. Why would we not be able to do so? We do not have Russian, Turkish, Iranian, American or Saudi agendas. Our agenda could reassure some of the Syrians who are there and probably a majority of the Syrian population. I'm not saying it's feasible or that it's easy. I'm not saying it's going to happen tomorrow, either, but why haven't we ever proposed it? Why didn't we say to Russia, "You will be accountable for your crimes against humanity"? Instead, we strongly condemn. In Moscow, one obviously died of laughing when one hears this. In Damascus too. What is this firm conviction? What does it change at the end of the war? Nothing! And we know that. We know this knowingly when we write this kind of statement. What we must say is that they will be held accountable for their crimes and that we will prosecute them, in our courts or elsewhere, for the crimes they commit, for the schools and hospitals they target, for the torture they inflict. That would already be much better, without going to sanctions that are quite unlikely! At least they would be at least accountable for the crimes committed. The same applies to Turkey. When we say we are in solidarity with Turkey, what are we, in fact? What threat? From the war they're waging in Syria, from the bombings she's carrying out there? The invasion of Syrian Kurdistan, against our own allies there? War crimes that the Turks commit with their Islamist militias? Is that what we stand in solidarity with? But to declare solidarity with Turkey is an absolutely hallucinating cynicism! Especially when we see what war criminals the Turks have been and are still in Syria and what a threat Turkey poses to our own security! Frankly, I think it is time to adopt attitudes that make us something other than a dwarf or a ghost politically. I think it is time for us to see how much this conflict affects international security and our own security. The Syrians and their Russian and Iranian allies will not stop there. What they want is to win back Syria as a whole, then Iraq will change. There will be a whole geopolitical whole, made up of Syria, Iraq and Iran, with their powerful Russian ally, which will weigh on our own security. That's what's happening there. Are we going to let that happen? Are we going to say again that there has been such a veto, such a constraint, and that we have not been able to do so? It is time to avoid further disasters. I find that the language used and the actions carried out do not match the situation there and the dangers that this population and our own security are facing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u35	Madam President, Minister, the political impasse in Venezuela continues to drag on. At the beginning of January, Luis Parra, a supporter of President Maduro, declared himself President of Parliament during a special session. Normally, opposition leader Juan Guaidó had to be re-elected President of Parliament on that day, but the army denied Guaidó and a hundred other opposition MPs access to the building. This was yet another sabotage attempt and conscious rotting strategy by President Maduro's extreme left-wing regime. At the time of Parra's appointment, Guidó and his supporters voted in the offices of the newspaper El Nacional on his re-election. The Venezuelan parliament proclaimed opposition leader Guaidó as President of Parliament. Minister, what is the Belgian Government's position on this dossier? Will the Belgian Government give its full support to Juan Guaidó as President of Parliament? Or have you already done that? Will the Belgian Government condemn these violations of democracy in Venezuela, such as attempts at sabotage, intimidation and violence by the Maduro regime? Have you expressed your concern with the Venezuelan ambassador in Brussels? If so, did you insist on the organisation of democratic presidential elections in Venezuela? If not, why not? Is consideration being given to linking trade relations between Belgium and Venezuela to conditions if certain international agreements by Venezuela are not respected?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u36	Madam President, Mrs Samyn, the statement by the High Representative for Foreign Policy of the European Union, Josep Borrell, on 9 January 2020 on behalf of the EU and the EU Member States, including Belgium, states that the events you mention are completely unacceptable. The European Union believes that the so-called election of Luis Parra is illegal. She also expressed her full support for Juan Guidó as President of the National Assembly. The EU says it is ready to take additional targeted and limited measures. At the same time, the Union will continue its efforts to facilitate an inclusive process leading to the restoration of democracy and the rule of law through free and fair presidential elections. It also continues to provide assistance to alleviate the humanitarian needs of the Venezuelan people. That is also the message that Belgium sends to its interlocutors. Belgium's policy towards Venezuela is in line with the European vision. Non-respect of democracy, the rule of law and human rights can lead to targeted restrictive measures against individuals involved in the violations of these rights and principles. The measures in this respect consist of a freezing of assets and a travel ban. By taking targeted measures, the European Union will ensure that the Venezuelan population, already severely affected by the crisis in the country, is not harmed further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u37	Madam President, Minister, I welcome the support, both at Belgian and European level. The situation in Venezuela is and remains dramatic. The main victim of the conflict is the Venezuelan people. Last year Guaidó brought hope for change, but unfortunately he has not yet succeeded in setting aside President Maduro's authoritarian-left regime. The population lives in fear and is afraid of further repression by the regime. Hopefully, therefore, some movement can take place at international level, sanctions can be imposed and democratic presidential elections can be called for in Venezuela.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u38	Mrs Van Hoof, Belgium is a great advocate of a rules-based multilateral trading system. In order to keep the World Trade Organisation relevant and bring it to the 21st century, it is necessary to provide for other rules to remove e-commerce barriers to trade, to provide legal certainty for businesses, to create a safe online environment for consumers and to give developing countries access to the world trade system. This has been one of the main priorities of the EU and Belgium within the WHO in recent years. In May 2019, the multilateral negotiations on the trade-related aspects of e-commerce within the framework of the WHO were launched in Geneva. Six rounds have already taken place and 83 WTO members, including the 27 EU Member States, have already joined the initiative, including a growing number of developing countries. This is just over half of WTO membership, but together it represents more than 70% of world digital trade. The talks are technical, but so far they have been constructive. Nevertheless, the level of difficulty of the discussion under discussion should not be underestimated. The establishment of a concrete deadline for the final conclusion of the negotiations is still premature. It is only after a negotiated final result, when there is more clarity about the concrete commitments, that the need for an impact assessment can be assessed by the European Commission, as argued in the public recommendation for the Council Decision of 2 April 2019. Belgium welcomes the WTO negotiations and underlines its horizontal interests regarding SMEs, dialogue with civil society and outreach to developing countries that have not yet joined the initiative, in particular with regard to African countries. In substance, the maintenance of sufficient policy space, including for the protection of personal data or the exclusion of audiovisual services, is absolutely essential for Belgium. At the same time, a homogeneous set of basic rules seems appropriate in order to be able to act against digital protectionism. With regard to the valuation of digital commerce and services, Belgium wants to give every opportunity to the multilateral negotiations under way within the OECD. In this context, Belgium wants to create a fair tax system to which all companies contribute.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. My main concern is indeed the protection of consumers in the context of e-commerce and the maintenance of a point of contact in the various countries. Nor should this negotiated agreement increase the power of multinational technology companies with regard to data. Developing countries must also be given a role in this agreement. I hope that Belgium will continue to take this position. I am also pleased to hear that you are working on a fair tax system.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u40	As Mrs Kitir is not present, she can put her question No. 55003079C not set.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u41	Madam President, Minister, this Tuesday the European Union condemned the US President's decision to allow the use of anti-personnel mines by US military forces outside the Korean peninsula. The High Representative of the European Union rightly pointed out that "their use in any place, at any time and by any actor remains totally unacceptable to the European Union". This decision runs counter to the global norm against anti-personnel mines that has saved tens of thousands of people over the past 20 years. Those weapons were incompatible with international humanitarian law and Belgium had made the situation of children in armed conflict a priority during the presidency of the United Nations Security Council. Minister, could you please indicate whether Belgium intends to put this issue on the agenda of the UN in order to denounce this decision of the Trump administration? At the bilateral level, are contacts also made in order to denounce this decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u42	Madam President, Mr Lacroix, we regret the decision of the United States to allow once again the use of anti-personnel mines by US military forces outside the Korean peninsula. In this sense, we strongly support the statement by the Spokesman for the European External Action Service of 4 February 2020. The tweet message sent by the SPF Foreign Affairs is also clear: the US decision does not contribute to security and is anachronistic in relation to the progress made over the past twenty years on the road to a world without anti-personnel mines. Other partners, including Germany, also expressed regret at this development of the US position. Possible bilateral consultations in the appropriate fora are currently under consideration by my services. The United States, for its part, justifies the change of course in the evolution of the geostrategic environment, which would force American forces to regain their competitive advantage by becoming "more lethal, resilient, agile and prepared for a wide spectrum of contingencies and geographies". The main challenge for the United States is to be able to use landmines as a system of denial of access and exclusion of areas. The Ottawa Convention of 164 States Parties has established a strong international standard against anti-personnel mines. However, it does not enjoy universal coverage. From a legal point of view, it only obliges those States that have acceded, among which the United States is not. Belgium is strongly engaged in the process of universalizing the Convention, a process in which her Royal Highness, Princess Astrid, plays a leading role as a special envoy for the Ottawa Convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u43	Minister, thank you for your answers, which do not satisfy me entirely. You have not told me anything about your intention or not to put this issue on the agenda of the United Nations Security Council and to denounce the Trump administration's decision. Apparently, that's not the case. I have heard that bilateral contacts are under way in the appropriate rooms. I would, however, like what has been done for the previous dossier in the current debate, have liked to have such a pugnacious Belgium on a subject which is, for it, essential. Indeed, this is one of its priorities, which includes the situation of children in armed conflict. It is known that they are often victims of these anti-personnel mines.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u44	Minister, the corona virus is not blocked by borders, not even between Taiwan and China. So there is the plea to make the island an observer in the World Health Organisation. Welfare and health must be above political interests for the protection of the population. Japan, among others, is conducting this discourse, and also within the European Union and the United States, several officials opened the talks to allow Taiwan to participate in the talks. As of 2009, Taiwan was invited as an observer to the World Health Council, the WHO Board. However, with increasing tensions with China, this was stopped in 2016, following the election of President Tsai. There is currently no formal mechanism for dialogue between China and Taiwan. The spread of the corona virus raises the question of whether Taiwan should not be allowed. More than 1 million Taiwanese live or work in China. With the Chinese New Year many of them travel home. Several infections have also appeared in Taiwan. Good health coordination in the region therefore seems crucial. Minister, what is your position on Taiwanese membership of the WHO? Will you make that statement to the WHO?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u45	Mrs Van Hoof, the WHO is a body of the United Nations. Resolution 2758 of the UN General Assembly of 1971 states that only the People's Republic of China is recognised as a legitimate representative of China in the United Nations. From a legal point of view, it is therefore not possible at the moment for Taiwan to become a full member of the WHO. Belgium's China policy follows the same logic and implies that Belgium does not recognise Taiwan as an independent state. However, it also stipulates that our country, in a multilateral framework, is in favour of Taiwan's participation in technical meetings of specialised international organisations, if it promotes their operation. That's the concept of meaningful participation. The detailed arrangements for Taiwanese participation should be discussed by the People's Republic of China and Taiwan. Our country calls on both sides to find a pragmatic solution. In the interests of international public health, it is essential that technical cooperation on the corona virus under the auspices of the WHO should be as smooth and transparent as possible. At the latest session of the WHO Executive Committee, Belgium called for an inclusive approach, which no one leaves behind. I understand that the WHO is doing its utmost both in its coordinating tasks and in its technical exchanges to involve Taiwan as much as possible, albeit within the lines of Resolution 2758. I can only encourage that approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which I welcome. It is important that we invite Taiwan to that technical meeting. This significant participation is needed in the interests of the people of both the People's Republic of China and Taiwan, between which much travel is being done. I hope that the decision to admit Taiwan to the World Health Organisation as an observer will be given a real one in the future, something that Japan also insists on.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u47	Minister, this February was marked by the Belgian presidency of the UN Security Council. On that occasion, you visited New York, where you chaired a debate on transitional justice. You also spoke at the rostrum alongside King Philip on the occasion of the International Day Against the Use of Child Soldiers. Mr Minister, you announced three main priorities for this presidency: children in armed conflict, transitional justice and cooperation between the UN and the European Union. What is your assessment of this month's presidency of our country? More specifically, with regard to the three priorities, are you satisfied with the meetings that took place? Have any progress been made on these themes? More broadly, what should be learned from this Belgian presidency? Finally, Minister, this month of February was also marked by the first meetings of the UN post-Brexit. Do you believe that it has had or will have consequences at the level of the United Nations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u48	Mr De Maegd, Belgium chaired the United Nations Security Council in February. We have a positive overall assessment of this. On the one hand, we announced the priorities you mentioned: children in armed conflict, transitional justice and cooperation between the UN and the EU. On the other hand, the Council's agenda has been strongly determined by current events. We have thus succeeded in building a momentum for the integration of child protection into peace processes. To this end, a practical guide was developed with the support of Belgium. Not only did King Philip speak on this subject, but we have also obtained a statement from the President of the Security Council endorsing this practical document. Their Majesties also visited an exhibition at the UN dedicated to child soldiers, initiated by our country in collaboration with the Antwerp Museum of Photography, for awareness-raising purposes. On 13 February, I chaired a debate on the topic of transitional justice, which we wish to highlight and which we will work on in the coming months to achieve a Council product (resolution or other). Moreover, the European dimension has strongly marked our presidency: no less than six take-out in the EU4 format plus Poland, whose mandate in the Council ended at the end of December, were organised only one month after Brexit. Unfortunately, the EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Mr Borrelr, had to cancel his planned trip to New York at the end of February. Our relations with the United Kingdom within the framework of the Security Council remain constructive. For most files, we are on the same page, but it will take us a few more months to find a new way of working. On topical issues, at the beginning of our presidency we managed to put the Rohingya theme on the agenda, which was far from easy in recent times. In addition, I personally led the topical debate on the Israeli-Palestinian peace process, in the presence of Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas. Throughout our Presidency, the Council has adopted press elements on this subject. This is a real success because the Council had not given its opinion on this subject since 2016. On 12 February, the Council adopted Resolution No. 2510, by which it adopted the outcome of the Berlin Conference on Libya. For the first time since the beginning of Marshal Haftar's offensive, the Council reached agreement on this matter. In a predictable way, the conflict in Syria has mobilized much of our attention during this month of February. My colleague Deputy Prime Minister Alexander De Croo travelled to New York to chair the debate on the humanitarian crisis in Syria, in the presence of German minister Heike Maas, Belgium and Germany both having participated in the drafting of this dossier. In the area of disarmament, we have put the biennial report on small arms and light weapons on the agenda. In addition, a briefing on the non-proliferation treaty was held on 26 February, two months before the Review Conference. On that occasion, the Council adopted a press statement. During our presidency, we have allowed as many as six speakers from civil society to speak in the work of the Council. These speakers were able to bear witness to the situation in Haiti and to topics such as terrorism, small arms, children in armed conflict, the link between climate and security and transitional justice. The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet, briefed the Council only for the second time since she took office. In conclusion, I would like to mention other results from this month of February. On a proposal from Niger and Belgium, a statement by the President of the Security Council was adopted. The mission's mandate in Guinea-Bissau has been renewed, as have the sanctions regimes in Yemen, the Sudan and Libya. For Yemen, we have succeeded in including a clause that qualifies the use and recruitment of children as a criterion for being subject to punishment. Our presidency of the United Nations Security Council went very well. I was able to thank the entire Belgian diplomatic network that contributed to this success, a diplomatic network that is widely recognized across our borders.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u49	Mr Minister, thank you for this review of the Belgian Presidency. Children soldiers, Rohingyas, Palestine, Libya, Syria, disarmament, Haiti or even climate or Yemen: the files obviously did not miss. The balance sheet seems to be complete. I thank you, on behalf of Parliament, for these actions as President of the Security Council; to you, but also to all your teams and diplomats in your country. Of course, I invite you to remain vigilant about the potential impact Brexit could have on our relationship with the United Nations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u50	Minister, a survey by Colette Braeckman, published on 4 February 2020 in the newspaper Le Soir, highlighted violations of fundamental rights, social rights and health and environmental standards in cobalt mines in the former Katanga. Environmental pollution and human rights violations by mining companies in the region have already been highlighted by a report by SOMO, a Dutch research centre on multinational enterprises, local NGOs and researchers from the University of Lubumbashi. In concrete terms, we are talking about forced displacement of populations, serious air and water pollution, contaminating the population and leading to congenital malformations, and unworthy working conditions in mines (working with bare hands, without masks, without mutual health care, without medical checks, etc.).). Mr Minister, this human, ecological and health disaster is a tragic setback to the current technological revolution, which we enjoy every day. Are you able to assess whether cobalt extracted from Katanga mines is present in consumer goods produced and/or consumed in Belgium? What is the status of the UN negotiations on a binding treaty on human and environmental rights for business? Is Belgium adopting an ambitious position on this matter? For its next economic mission to the DRC, which will take place at the end of March 2020, is it possible for the Belgian delegation to incorporate into its future collaborations the Due Diligence mechanisms and to include ethical, environmental, social rights and the right to dignity of cobalt mine workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u51	Madame de Laveleye, cobalt extracted from the DRC, including the Katanga region, is mainly transformed in Belgium by the company Umicore. The latter acts in accordance with its sustainable supply framework for cobalt – a framework also in line with OECD guidelines. The company also has strict environmental, health and safety standards for minors. It excluded cobalt from its supply chain from artisanal mines. In addition, it was the first and only independent third-party control company to be included in the Responsible Ores Initiative's list of compliant cobalt refiners. With regard to the timetable for the United Nations negotiations, suggestions for text on the draft revised binding instrument could be submitted until the end of February. A revised text is expected in June. In-depth informal consultations with all parties will precede the sixth session of the working group in October. Our country is one of the strongest advocates of a strong commitment by the European Union to this process. The April interregional economic mission to Kinshasa and Lubumbashi will be chaired by a member of a regional government. Its organisation, as well as the policy on markets and exports, is a matter of regional competence. Of course, it takes place in coordination with the national policy and the political line Belgium continues to advocate internationally – particularly in terms of human rights, environmental protection and the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u52	Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand that mines are inspected and must meet various standards and labels. However, observers note that it is still difficult to enforce them. For this reason, it can still be considered that a binding treaty is one of the most useful ways of exercising cross-cutting control over all companies located in the most fragile countries. We are pleased to hear that Belgium is a strong supporter of this process. We will continue to follow up on this. As far as the economic mission is concerned, my Walloon and Brussels counterparts pay close attention to the Due Diligence of Belgian companies for the contracts they can conclude on the spot. Whether we like it or not, we are responsible for what happens in mines and for exploiting the wealth in fragile countries. That is why, Minister, your role is essential to ensure that these issues are monitored and monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u53	Minister, we are changing continents. Haiti was hit by a serious social and political crisis. Services to the population are almost non-existent. We are talking about corruption, violence and massacres against the population. In this context, the Europe-Haiti coordination, which is a group of organizations working with other partner organizations in Haiti, has undertaken a consultation with Haitian civil society organizations, in order to obtain their views on the presence and mandate of the United Nations integrated office in Haiti, known as UNIH. As a reminder, on October 15, 2019, the United Nations Security Council formally ended fifteen years of peace operations in Haiti. The results of these operations are described by local organizations. The UN presence will now be reduced to UNIH, which took office on October 16, 2019, and which has two areas of action as its mandate: advising the Government of Haiti to promote and strengthen political stability and good governance on the one hand, and on the other hand, helping the Government of Haiti by exercising an advisory role with it to assist it in its efforts in various sectors, including the protection of human rights, the fight against impunity, dialogue, constitutional reforms, elections etc. Minister, after reading the analyses provided by Haitian civil society, have you been able to take advantage of your presidency of the Security Council at the United Nations to launch an evaluation of UNIH? Following the question by Mr. De Maegd, I heard you've been working on the issues in Haiti. My question specifically concerns the place of the United Nations in Haiti today. If so, have you been able to work towards adapting it to better meet the needs of the population?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u54	Madam President, Madame de Laveleye, the UN Security Council is meeting this Thursday to discuss the situation in Haiti. The topic of this meeting is the Secretary-General's first quadrennial report on the functioning of UNIH. This is the first time that the Security Council has met since UNIH began its work on 16 October 2019. Thursday's session is therefore a first opportunity to assess the start of the mission. Since the Mission has only been active for four months, it is probably still a little early to change its mandate. A full operational evaluation will be conducted in October, when the mandate of UNIH is to be extended. At that time and if necessary, the mandate of the mission may then be changed. Belgium is very sensitive to the remarks made by Haitian civil society, notably through the Europe-Haiti coordination platform with which my department is in regular contact. At the express request of Belgium, which assumed the presidency of the Security Council a few days ago, and in order to have a better assessment of the situation on the ground as well as of the action of the United Nations, a member of Haitian civil society was invited to participate in the Council session on Thursday. The aim is to raise the voice of civil society in this multilateral forum of the United Nations that is decisive for Haiti. The Haitian people must indeed be the priority of our collective action. We are currently in the first few months of the existence of UNIH. This office is not an end in itself but a means that must first improve the daily lives of Haitians. As we have done in the past, we will not fail to take into account all the information in our possession in order to achieve this objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u55	Minister, thank you for your answer. We can only rejoice to see that this Thursday, the Haitian question will be on the table of the Security Council. I think that's a very good thing. I am pleased to hear that Haitian civil society is involved, at various levels, in the work of this meeting. This is all the more important given the clear orientation of the mandate of UNIH to support a Haitian government that is clearly in a situation of complete illegitimacy. It is well known that corruption and violence have been demonstrated. As you have said, you are aware, the people on the ground can no longer do so and need to feel heard, especially about the United Nations mission. I think it will still be very interesting to be able to reorient, if necessary, the mandate of UNIH so that civil society can feel reassured that we are not there just to strengthen the role of a government that is not legitimate in the eyes of the local population. It will therefore be necessary to make progress on this subject, but this item seems to be on the agenda this Thursday. We will not fail to follow up on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u56	Minister, on 12 February 2020, the United Nations published a list of 112 companies active in illegal Israeli settlements. Most of these companies are Israeli, but there are also a number of international companies on the list, such as Booking.com, Airbnb, Motorola, Tripadvisor and Alstom. Of course, a company doesn't just come on that list. According to the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, the companies concerned have done business that raises particular concerns about human rights. For example, they have contributed to the construction and expansion of settlements or the destruction of Palestinian homes or property. Countries have an international duty not to contribute to the preservation of an illegal situation, such as the settlements in the West Bank or the Golan Heights. That is why the UN and the EU have long argued for a policy of differentiation between Israel itself and Israeli settlements. Are you satisfied with the publication of the list, which has had many feet in the earth? How can the list contribute to a better development of a Belgian and/or European differentiation policy? How do you think Belgium and the EU should handle this published list? What will be the consequences for the companies that are on it? Can they be excluded from public procurement? Can their products or services be banned in Belgium and the EU? My second question concerns our country's invitation to the Palestinian NGO Defence for Children International (DCI) Palestine. We have already debated this in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. During the Belgian Presidency of the UN Security Council, we invited that NGO to come and speak. It is an organisation working on children's rights, an important issue for our country too, an important pillar of our foreign policy. Apparently under Israeli pressure the invitation to DCI Palestine was withdrawn. Israel gave one of the key figures of the organization extreme views on Israel and reportedly made two démarches to the Belgian embassy in Tel Aviv. We withdrew that invitation. I ask you a number of questions, Minister, because you said something quite different here in the Committee on External Relations just a few days before your decision. You replied to a number of colleagues' questions that you did not understand the problem with this NGO, that it was an important issue and that it was important for our country to hear the NGO in the UN Security Council. Why the decision to withdraw that invitation? Was our country, possibly via the embassy, contacted by Israel about this? Was our country under pressure?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u57	Madam President, Minister, as President of the UN Security Council, Belgium invited Brad Parker of Defence for Children International - Palestine as speaker to speak on the theme "Children and armed conflict". As I understand it, this theme is a priority of our mandate in the Security Council. Brad Parker was to address the treatment of the 500 to 700 Palestinian children detained and imprisoned annually by Israel, the only country in the world where children are tried by military courts if they are Palestinian. Between 2000 and 2020, 2,114 children were also murdered by the Israeli army. This invitation was obviously highly criticized by the Israeli regime, from the very beginning. The Belgian Deputy Ambassador was summoned twice by the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Israel's ambassador to Belgium and Israel's ambassador to the UN tweeted blatant threats against us. Initially, you had not succumbed to these pressures. But you finally made a 180-degree turn and withdrew the invitation. Minister, the Palestinian people, the many NGOs and ordinary people in Europe and around the world who are fighting for the rights of the Palestinian people, see this decision as a terrible capitulation, facing a apartheid regime that violates human rights and international law on a daily basis. And they're right. Minister, why did you finally give in to the pressure when, as a first step, you had resisted it? What additional pressure has been put on our government? What consequences will this capitulation have for the credibility of our diplomacy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u58	My question goes in the same direction. DCI Palestine's invitation has been withdrawn under pressure from Israel. The number two of our Israeli embassy has been called twice and was told that this organisation should not be invited to a Security Council debate on children in armed conflicts in the Middle East. It is bizarre that our country succumbed to this diplomatic pressure because it is about the defence of children's rights. The decision was a direct result of disinformation by the Israeli authorities, thus giving civil society organisations less and less room for manoeuvre and intimidation. For example, the Israeli Ministry of Strategic Affairs has published several reports in the last year and a half to discredit Israeli, Palestinian and European civil society organisations. The European Union has already accused the Israeli Ministry of Disinformation campaigns. Hence my questions. Can you explain why the invitation was withdrawn? Do you confirm that there is less room for civil society organisations in Israel? Do you share the European Union's view that Israeli Ministry of Strategic Affairs is guilty of disinformation campaigns? Are you prepared to explore, together with the other countries of the European Union, the possibility of a follow-up mechanism for international Human Rights and Humanitarian Law Secretary, in order to support the work of local human rights organisations in Israel and Palestine?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u59	Madam President, Minister, I am not going to repeat what has already been discussed and move on to my question concerning the ban on the export of Palestinian agricultural products via Jordan decided by Israel on 9 February. There is no need to demonstrate to you the disastrous economic situation in the West Bank, particularly because of the control of the Jordan Valley, nor to remind you of the number of violent attacks by settlers against Palestinian farmers and their crops. This decision further illustrates the fact that since the 1993 Oslo Accords, which were to last five years, Israel has controlled the entire border of the West Bank. What is Belgium's official reaction to this export ban? While Palestinian products are no longer available in Belgium because of this Israeli ban, Israeli settlement products continue to be marketed in our country. With regard to a possible retaliatory measure, do you envisage a Belgian reaction and possibly a ban on the products of Israeli settlements in the West Bank? On the other hand, what progress has been made in promoting clear labelling of these colony products? Minister, I come to another question. On March 3, a third Israeli legislative election was held. I wanted to warn you first of the climate that prevailed after this election with death threats against the main centrist candidate Benny Gantz, who unfortunately recalls a sad episode of Israel. Despite the difficulty of forming a government, a majority in the Knesset was found to annex a large part of the West Bank. Minister, what would be your reaction to the unilateral annexation of a large part of the West Bank? What retaliatory measures could be taken? They could possibly be similar to those taken during the invasion of Crimea. Finally, my last question concerns the DCI file at the United Nations. What were the reasons for the cancellation of this hearing? King Philippe, representing Belgium at the time, insisted on the right of children in conflict. Beyond this cancellation, Belgium will set up to protect the many children who are suffering from the blockade of Gaza, the violent Israeli occupation, the violence of settlers, etc.- Is that what you're saying? A few weeks ago, in committee, we discussed the danger of shrinking space, the narrowing of the freedom of expression of associations. The clumsy decision taken in relation to DCI contributes to this perception that international law may be subject to pressure from any authority. What remedial measures will be put in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, Belgium is a strong leader of corporate social responsibility. Belgium, like the European Union, believes that the UN Guidelines on Enterprise and Human Rights, adopted by consensus in the Human Rights Council, should be applied at global level. All companies, including European companies, should apply them in all circumstances, including in Israel and the occupied Palestinian territories. Although Belgium abstained in the vote on the resolution, in line with the position of the European Union, our country has always publicly and publicly advocated that the High Commissioner for Human Rights should be able to exercise its mandate in full independence, as reflected in the publication of the database. The report by the High Commissioner for Human Rights makes it clear that the reference to these companies is not a judicial or quasi-judicial procedure and that this is not the intention of its publication. Although the business entities are thus considered unlawful under international law, the High Commissioner for Human Rights underlines that the report is not a legal qualification of the activities in question or of their involvement in those activities. The High Commissioner for Human Rights also referred to the fact that further steps regarding the continuation of the mandate fall within the competence of the members of the Human Rights Council. The report was discussed by the Member States at the Council meeting on 24 February. The present report is an important information tool, which should also encourage companies to comply with international law. For a possible regular review of the list, the High Commissioner for Human Rights refers to the Member States and states that any further steps regarding the continuation of the mandate are a matter for the members of the Human Rights Council. I would like to remind you that the European Union has exclusive competence over the common commercial policy. As a customs union, the European Union applies uniform common rules for imports of goods from third countries throughout the Union. In principle, only the European Union can decide to prohibit imports of goods and services, not individual Member States. I would like to thank you for the questions relating to my decision to cancel our country's planned briefing with Mr Brad Parker of Defense for Children International in the Security Council. I think it is important to put that decision in the right context. The situation of children in armed conflict is a priority of Belgium and will remain so. As chair of the working group on children in armed conflict, our country is committed to improving the plight of children and highlighting their situation when specific conflicts, such as the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, are on the agenda of the Security Council. The situation of children in Israel and Palestine remains an underexposed subject. That explains my initiative to invite Mr Brad Parker. The invitation had two clear objectives: firstly, to highlight the importance of the theme 'children in armed conflict' and, secondly, to provide civil society with a forum in the UN Security Council as proof of our support for the important work done by these organisations in such very sensitive dossiers. I noted that during the Belgian Presidency alone, our country had invited six civil society speakers to testify in the UN Security Council on the situation in Haiti and Somalia, as well as on issues such as terrorism, small arms, children, armed conflicts and transitional justice. To safeguard these two objectives, it was important that the discussions take place in a calm and constructive atmosphere. We met with all parties in order to create the best conditions for this debate. We have done so discreetly, without using the diplomacy of the megaphone, because we are convinced that the defence of the interests of children and of civil society in the long term cannot be instrumentalized, and that it cannot accommodate counterproductive polemics. Unfortunately, we have found that these conditions for a serene and constructive debate have not been met. Belgium was ambitious in its commitment to place the situation of children in armed conflicts on the UN Security Council's agenda. We therefore deeply regret that this ambition was used for different partners to pursue their own objectives and agenda. We understand that the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is generating strong positions on the part of those involved in this issue on a daily basis. We commend the work of these NGOs, which have been making significant efforts for years to improve the plight of children hostage to this conflict. As a member of the Security Council, however, Belgium must ensure that the right conditions are created to safeguard the very essence of its project: to speak about children in armed conflict, including in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and to provide a forum for civil society in this context. However, we continue to work together with civil society to enable a constructive debate on the situation of children in Israel and Palestine. Therefore, on 27 April 2020 in New York, in the margins of the regular open debate in the UN Security Council on the Middle East, I decided to organise a high-level briefing on the situation of children in Israel and Palestine with the members of the UN Security Council and the various civil society actors. Those intentions were combined with the decision to cancel the briefing on 24 February 2020, also communicated to DCI, with whom we wish to continue our cooperation in mutual respect. I should like to note here that the decision to cancel Mr. Parker's briefing and to hold closed consultations in the Security Council on 24 February was also a very clear advantage. Through this decision and our many behind-the-scenes efforts, our country has succeeded in reaching an agreement among the members of the Council on press elements, in which the Council affirms its commitment to a two-State negotiated solution in accordance with international law. This is the first time since 2017 that the Security Council has reached agreement on press elements related to the Middle East peace process. Like you, I am concerned about the ever shrinking area in which civil society operates in Israel and Palestine. Our country has already made a public statement on this matter, including in the Security Council, and it is also directly addressing this problem with the Israeli authorities through our contacts in Tel Aviv and the Israeli ambassador in Brussels. During these contacts we also explained that we do not share the Israeli position on the NGO DCI Palestine. We thank Mr Parker for his willingness to brief the UN Security Council and reaffirm our support for DCI Palestine, whose work is necessary and important. We consider that the allegations made against this NGO, as against other Palestinian or international NGOs, whether by the Israeli authorities or by NGOs Monitor-type organizations, are not reliable or credible as long as they are not confirmed by evidence or through judicial proceedings. We are aware that these allegations are aimed at discouraging NGOs critical of Israeli policy in the Palestinian territories and that this contributes greatly to the shrinking space. The International Human Rights Secretariat was established in 2013 and consisted of similar donors: the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden and Switzerland. Through this MRS, projects of human rights organisations were collectively funded. However, the Belgian law on development cooperation does not allow participation in such a joint NGO fund. DGD finances only Belgian NGOs that in turn cooperate with local organisations, including human rights organisations. This funding of local NGOs is no longer allowed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. The publication of the UN list is a major victory for international law. We have to be happy about that. Companies that participate in the illegal occupation are guilty of crimes. It makes sense that we are now looking for ways to be consistent. You say that the EU is exclusively responsible for import policy, but as far as public procurement is concerned, perhaps you can tell us what the possibilities are for Belgium to effectively link the necessary consequences to the publication of that list. With regard to the Palestinian NGO Defence For Children International, I can understand why you want a serene debate in all circumstances. However, irrational Israeli pressure has made the serene debate impossible. I believe that we have made the wrong decision on this point, because at least we have given the impression of giving in to the pressure from Israel. I think that's a dangerous precedent. We must not let anything talk to ourselves, we are right in our shoes. You were right in your shoes with your invitation to that Palestinian NGO. We have always based ourselves on international law and human rights. Others do not respect international law, but our attitude has always been correct. Four days before you withdrew the invitation to that Palestinian NGO, you said so yourself. In fact, this can be read in the public record of that meeting. You said you didn't see why there would be a problem with that Belgian invitation. It is good that a new initiative will be launched in April. I insist that we have hesitated and, in my opinion, have shown too little perseverance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u62	Minister, thank you for your answers, although unfortunately they are not convincing. I still do not understand the reasons for the cancellation of this mission. I still believe it's a capitulation because your arguments are really not convincing. One of the reasons you call for is that we must have a constructive debate. But to have a constructive debate, Israel must be constructive. This is a State that violates international law and does not respect any international decision in this conflict. How can we have a constructive debate with a non-State that violates the international debate? You said, on the other hand, that you cancelled this mission in the respect of DCI, but Mr. Brad Parker is a little less consensual than you. Since he has been prevented from speaking in the United Nations, I will give him the floor in this Parliament by quoting him. Following your decision, he says: "In view of the attacks and campaigns against Palestinian human rights defenders and civil society, Belgium's actions are completely irresponsible. When a supposed champion of these values highlights you knowing very well that it might be worth being targeted, it is discouraging to see him give in to such pressures. This lack of political will only ensures that systemic impunity remains the norm for Palestinian children. (...) Thus, if Belgium had not given in to pressure, what the Israeli government did not want me to entrust today to the UN Security Council." It is Mr Parker's words that amaze your position and emphasize something important. It is that, as long as there is impunity for Israel, Israel will have no problem in flouting international law. This capitulation, which has recently occurred, is an element that reinforces international impunity for Israel. In this case, there was no reference to any position or action taken against the State of Israel. It was just a testimony. Israel could not hear a mere testimony. It is Israel that makes the law with regard to international law. That's a shame, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u63	Minister, I agree with colleagues that it is disappointing that we have admitted to Israel's pressure not to invite this organisation to the UN Security Council. I think it is clear that the position of civil society organisations in Jerusalem and by enlargement in Israel is under pressure and that we must not give in to it. Freedom of association and expression is an important principle internationally. It has been incorporated into several treaties. You're going to organise a new meeting on April 27th. I wonder if this will be at the same level as the UN Security Council meeting on 24 February. I think it is best that we do not give in to this in the future and give civil society organisations the opportunity to come to Parliament and personally to testify to how difficult it is to work today in Israel if there is a different opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u64	Thank you, Madam President. I'm going to start with the very good news, it's to have heard you officially decredivize NGO Monitor. For having suffered it myself in my previous work, I can tell you that this organization is very aggressive and works only in allegations. Thank you and encourage you to share this point of view with your European colleagues. On the other hand, you did not answer my questions, either on annexation or on the export of Palestinian goods. Perhaps you have the answers in writing. For lack of time, you may not have had the opportunity to give them to me. I would be happy to receive them in writing. Otherwise, I'll reposition them for the next time. For the rest, I agree with my colleagues, the decision was regrettable. On the one hand, I am pleased that you are doing an appropriate analysis of NGO Monitor to give some air to NGOs and human rights organisations in Europe too, which are working on assessing compliance with international law in Palestine. But on the other hand, taking this decision is a way of supporting the work of NGO Monitor or some members of the Israeli government. I still have a specific question to ask, minister. You're talking about a briefing on the kids on April 27th. Will DCI be invited again? [[Oui]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic129x.u65	Thank you.
