ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u1	Madam Minister, the future pact agreed with the mutualities that the National Intermutualist College would draw up a cartography of the a-priority and a-posteriori checks, which would give RIZIV basic data on existing internal checks and audits within the sickness funds. Following a report by the Court of Auditors on these checks by the sickness funds, the Court of Auditors reported that the cartography of these checks would not be sufficiently detailed. According to the Court of Auditors, the report contains no detailed information on how one checks, the motives behind it, how many controls were carried out effectively, etc. The RIZIV considered that this cartography is in no way useful to steer its control activities. On behalf of the National Intermutualist College, Mr Hermes stated at the hearings in the Health Committee that providing an exhaustive overview of all the checks carried out by the insurance institutions is a titanic exercise. The insurance institutions are willing to cooperate, but Mr Hermes considers it desirable to establish a working method for this approach. Otherwise, delivery times could be very long and the control system would offer little added value. Madam Secretary, can I hear from you what your reaction is to Mr Hermes' statement? Since the publication of the Court of Auditors' report, have any initiatives been taken to develop a method of obtaining a cartography with sufficient content, so that the RIZIV can work with it? If so, what are these initiatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u2	Thank you very much for your question, Mr De Caluwe. It is good that insurance institutions will cooperate and report on their control systems. The previous submission of the reporting provided by the pact with the insurance institutions contained completely unusable information for the RIZIV, which was also established by the Court of Auditors. The delivery period has been out for a long time anyway. If a method of reporting has to be established, I invite the insurance institutions to do so quickly. Not being able to communicate and explain what their control activities are, can fuel the suspicion that they are not working in the most efficient way. What's happened? Since the Court of Auditors' report of 12 September 2018 on the control of sickness funds, the RIZIV has taken various actions in consultation with the insurance institutions to respond to the comments of the Court of Auditors. To that end, the Administrative Control Office, or DAC, of the RIZIV organised several bilateral contacts with all insurance institutions in 2019. The aim is to enable each insurance institution to draw up a state of play regarding internal controls on the regulation, both a priori and a posteriori, in the first line of the medical care and benefit sector, as well as to analyse the practical arrangements for the exchange and the way in which these data can subsequently be integrated into the technical and control methodology of the Administrative Control Office. In addition, a cooperation was developed between the insurance institutions and the Medical Evaluation and Control Service of the RIZIV, as provided for in our Action Plan Enforcement in health care, with regard to a uniform and efficient approach to controls, recovery and sanctions and systematic communication between the two actors through the National Intermutualist College on the planned risk analyses, post-controls and national actions. There are also discussions on a-priority and a-posteriori checks in the first line by the insurance institutions that have also taken place within the anti-fraud committee set up within the RIZIV and in which the representatives of the various relevant services of the RIZIV, the Medical Care Service, the Medical Evaluation Service and the Administrative Control Service and the insurance institutions are present. All this work contributes to the achievement of greater transparency and cooperation between the insurance institutions and the RIZIV.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u3	Madam Minister, I am very pleased with the initiatives you have taken in the meantime. It is indeed important that we have a proper control mechanism. The measures taken will undoubtedly contribute to this. Thank you for the work you have done on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u4	Madam Secretary, according to VASO, the Association of Doctors-Specialists in Training, legal protection for doctors-specialists in training, in short, is still inadequate. Too often the law on working time is not complied with; the remuneration is not properly regulated by law; watchkeeping fees are sometimes very low; overtime is often not paid and the list can be completed infinitely. It also differs from hospital to hospital. Recently, an aso was given right by the judge when he filed a complaint against the UZ in Liège for non-payment of his overtime. The VASO therefore advocates a legally anchored, uniform contract with the same minimum conditions in all hospitals. Will you ask the National Joint Committee on Medicine-Hospitals for advice on minimum conditions for a contract between medical specialists in training and hospitals? How are the intentions of your Green Paper translated into policy? Will VASO be involved in the establishment of a better statute for asovants? If so in what sense? How do you feel about the criticism that the savings in the healthcare budget make it difficult to roll out the status of asos? Are there any statistics that show that over-tired asophysics cause more medical errors? If so, what is the result?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u5	Mrs Sneppe, I do indeed intend to put a question to the National Joint Committee on Medicine and Hospitals at the Public Health Office on the problem of the training agreements of medical specialists in training. There are close contacts between my employees and the Flemish Association of Doctors Specialists in Training on the training conditions during the professional training courses required for recognition. VASO has also previously addressed the Minister for Employment with specific questions on part-time benefits and remuneration, including allowances for additional benefits and waiting services. I will essentially question the committee on two issues. The first concerns a model of generic agreement between the aso and the internship master or a provision designated by the internship master which contains the training and performance conditions, i.e. a kind of contract. The second question concerns a basic hourly allowance for additional benefits, with the application of the Law of 12 December 2010 determining the working time of the doctors, dentists, veterinarians, candidate doctors in training, candidate dental practitioners in training and student tagaires preparing for the pursuit of those professions. This question of advice, which is still under discussion, will be submitted shortly. It will not deal with the social status in any way. My policy cell will work to ensure that the advisory procedure is carried out properly by maintaining the necessary contacts with those involved and, in particular, with the asos themselves. The Social Inspection of the FOD WASO is exclusively competent for the application of the cited law. The principles of the Green Paper, namely the financing of the educational components of the professional internship, its linking to the quality of the internship service and the training by the internship masters and an ombud function for problematic training situations, require an adaptation of the WUG of 10 May 2015 and the implementing decisions. The FOD also makes the necessary preparations for this. You understand that it will be up to the next government to set priorities, including in terms of budgeting, because of course there is a cost factor. VASO is currently with the Cabinet for consultation on 4 February. The policy cell and VASO together define the route which will then be transferred to the next policy team. There is a need for the development of a quality system and for the recording of data relating to the internship and audit of the internship services and internship masters. The discussions on a social status for the asos are part of the joint consultation model of health insurance, i.e. in the Medicomut. I respect that consultation model and my staff are available for further information and the conceptualisation of a statute. You also asked for statistics. As far as I'm aware, there aren't any known names yet. The internships, especially the coordinating internships, are often linked to a university faculty and bear a responsibility there. Students sometimes inform us about distressing situations and we try to play a role in them. In summary, with the introduction of the Green Paper and the budgetary measures for training, important steps have been taken in the dossier. That was really high time, because my predecessors never paid any attention to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u6	Madam Minister, I am pleased that a path is being drawn up, but I hope that it can be speeded up. After all, we are aware of distressing situations and it is very unfortunate that they still need to be dealt with ad hocly. I therefore hope that there will be a real statute for the doctors-specialists in training so that they are better protected in the event of illness, unemployment and accidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u7	Madam Secretary, after a slight decrease in 2017, Medex's investigation shows that absenteeism among federal officials has increased again in 2018. Psychiatric disorders are the main causes of absenteeism. Depression and burn-out are the greatest culprits. You mentioned that you want to treat burnouts as a work-related condition. Fedris, the Federal Agency for Occupational Risks, has therefore launched a project to provide tailor-made guidance to workers with burn-out or burn-out risks. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. What do you think are the causes of this increase? Is it clear why there was a decrease in absenteeism in 2017? What exactly does this tailor-made guidance course mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u8	Mrs. Sneppe, the absenteeism of federal officials is a recurring heading. It is true that the figures published by Medex at the end of last year showed an increase again. The default rate of 2018 is 6,48 %, an increase of 0,43 % compared to 2017. In both the private and public sectors, absenteeism has increased in recent years. This trend is also being followed by officials. Only in 2017 was there a temporary decrease in federal absenteeism. Medex has a pretty detailed view of the disease rates. I'm gonna explain this a little bit more. The increase in the absenteeism rate is mainly due to the increase in absence time. Officials who are absent in 2018 are sick for an average of 22.8 days. In 2017, that figure was still 21.2 days. So no more civil servants are sick, but they are ill longer. Officials are on average more frequent but less long absent than employees in the private sector. According to Securex, the average duration of an absence in the private sector is 16 working days and an average of 7.6 days for a federal official. As an official is absent on average 2.1 times a year, the average duration of absence of an official is 15.2 days. For employees in the private sector this is less frequent: 1.1 times a year according to Securex or 1.2 times a year according to SD Worx. On the other hand, they are longer absent: the average duration of absence for workers is 12.6 days according to SD Worx or 17.6 days according to Securex, while for officials it is 15 days. Indeed, mental illness is the main medical cause of absenteeism. This is also the case in the public federal sector for 2018. From the age of 30, at least one official in ten is absent due to mental illness. Depression and burn-out account for one third of the disease days. The figures for mental illness confirm the rising trend in recent years. Indeed, we have already worked a lot on tackling burn-out as a work-related disease. Many actions have been undertaken for employees, civil servants and self-employed persons, including the project to which you refer. Together with Fedris, the Federal Agency for Occupational Risks, a project was also launched to provide tailor-made guidance to employees with burn-out or risk of burn-out. Some 300 to 1,000 hospital and banking workers can participate in the pilot project. These are people who, as a result of burn-out work, interrupt briefly or are disabled for at least two months. Both sectors were selected first because scientific research shows that employees are at greater risk of developing a burn-out. There are also specially developed guidance and care pathways to help workers stay at work or resume their work more quickly. This process lasts up to nine months and consists of different sessions: stress management, life hygiene, occupational planning, relaxation techniques, kinesitherapy, etc. These routes are very flexible and can be adapted to the individual needs of the employee. Everything will be refunded, including the sessions and the associated travel costs. An evaluation of this pilot project is planned in 2021. We have also campaigned to prevent, detect and cure burn-out in the general public and in healthcare professions. Information and awareness are very important. You can find all this on the website www.stressburnout.belgie.be. The increasing number of sick remains an important focus. There, the focus was on tailor-made measures for the patient. My prevention policy was an important pillar here, but we do not want to give up disabled people either. People must be given every opportunity and guidance to resume their work. A new government must build on these pillars. This could include specific guidance tailored to the needs of the civil servants.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u9	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I am glad that some things have already come out of the bus in the area of guidance and care. I hope that is the way forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u10	As I was unable to do at the beginning of the meeting, I would like to remind you that we now have the pleasure of operating with a chronometer. The deadline for a member of Parliament to ask his or her question is two thirty minutes, as is the time for the minister's answer. As for the replica, it is limited to one minute. I know the exercise isn't easy. We can therefore sometimes be broad, but we commit ourselves, if possible, to respecting this timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u11	Madam President, Minister, Solidaris provides worrying information in a survey published by the Sudpress group, according to which young parents feel anxious and in poor health. To the question "Globally, what do you think about your physical health?", 57.6% say they are in fairly good health. That's 6.5 points lower than in 2015. At that time, 64.1% of young parents responded positively. More worrying: only 16.2% say they are very healthy, compared to 23.3% in 2015. The number of individuals interviewed did not fully believe that they were in good health increased by 11.4 percentage points, from 10.9% to 22.3%. Finally, the number of people who do not feel that they are healthy has also increased from 1.7% to 3.9%. Many say they are also anxious. The stress-related evolution affects both sexes, but there is still a higher level of anxiety in mothers. The ratio to the time available is, in fact, very unequal between men and women, as they face a greater mental burden than their spouses. The European Institute for Gender Equality (EIGE) notes that Belgian women spend more time daily than men caring for children, grandchildren, the elderly or those with disabilities. The gap is even greater in household chores and meal preparation: 81.2 per cent of women do so on a daily basis, compared with 32.5 per cent of men. Moreover, the "time" category is the one that has fallen the most in terms of gender equality in Belgium. Minister, why do women bear most of this mental burden? What collective solutions can be found to solve this problem? What are the ways in which women can better reconcile their private and professional lives? Many women, for the reasons mentioned above, are forced to reduce their working time. We consider it mandatory to take better account of the years of part-time work in calculating the pension. Are you considering thinking about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u12	Madam President, Mrs Thémont, I am laughing, because I have never heard anything else, namely that women take care of their children far more than their spouses do. However, the situation is changing. Indeed, we find that the number of psychosocial conditions among young parents is increasing. Different international studies point to a correlation between the tasks performed in the private sphere and the appearance of syndromes such as burn-out. At my initiative, the SPF Social Affairs commissioned a study to provide clarity in the knowledge of the pressure associated with the work-life mix. This study was made in early 2019. She notes that exhaustion, stress and sleep problems are the most common conditions. The study shows that psychosocial risks are primarily work-related, but that a good balance between work and family life is essential. The researchers made seven recommendations: to continue supporting feasible work; to develop a single definition and criteria for burn-out; to continue to encourage prevention policy at the enterprise level; to continue to promote other measures at the enterprise level such as the promotion of a business culture conducive to a balanced family life; to continue developing measures to counter the pressure resulting from the combination of private and professional life; to simplify and harmonise systems of time credit, career interruption, birth leave, parental leave, such as the extension of birth leave; and to strengthen the quality of management and work organisation. Management support is a powerful resource. Incentives should stimulate companies to invest in this area and continue to encourage the reintegration of workers with disabilities. During the previous legislature, the government undertook a number of steps that were in line with the recommendations. I am thinking here of the law on feasible and manageable work, the launch of pilot projects on integrated prevention of work-related diseases, and the introduction of the reintegration route. Given that the final report of the study was delivered in December 2018 and that at the time the government was already in day-to-day business, we have not yet been able to take any further initiatives. But it is clear that the next government will have to get to work on the basis of these recommendations. I come to your question about taking periods into account when calculating the pension. This is a matter for my colleague, the Minister of Pensions, Mr Bacquelaine.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u13	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. As you said, there is a need to develop measures to better articulate work-life balance, as this is essential, especially for women's empowerment. They also need equal access to the labour market and better sharing of household responsibilities and the mental burden they represent. But other steps have yet to be taken. I am thinking in particular of paternity leave for the self-employed and a series of recommendations from this study. I will therefore pay attention to the follow-up that will be given to this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u14	Minister, I come back to a subject that I have been on for a long time and on which I will never stop putting pressure on it to materialize. The Caregiver Act was implemented on 17 May 2019 and was expected to come into force for a number of months. You have logically submitted it to the Data Protection Authority (PAD) but since then we have had no news. We recently learned in plenary that ODA had delivered its opinion at the end of November. What is the content of this opinion? Have you sent the draft royal decrees to the Council of State? If so, what is the position of the Council of State on these draft royal decrees? Do you plan to include them quickly in the second reading of the Council of Ministers? Minister, you have regularly communicated on this matter, including officially. In a press release in April 2019, you made it clear that the official status would come into force on October 1, 2019. You also said that this would apply only to people who are highly dependent and that it would be medical assistance leave (12 to 18 months). I would like to remind you that medical leave concerns one person in the family. On the other hand, you announced that the coming into force would take place gradually, per month added each year. The content of this press release does not correspond to the law that was passed. In addition to my questions about the lack of implementation for too long and the non-compliance with the law passed, I wonder about your communication and the content of the royal decrees. Minister, will the royal orders comply with the law passed or will they correspond to your press release? As a reminder, this law does not concern only the great dependence and it is not simply an extension of medical assistance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u15	Madam President, Minister, I have asked a number of questions about family leave, both in committee and in plenary. The last time was January 16th. The law with which we give carers a month full-time or two months half-time family leave should have entered into force effectively from 1 October 2019. That was not possible because the royal decision to recognize carers was not yet ready. You have taken a number of steps in the meantime. I have the following questions. One of the things you had to do was ask for the advice of the Data Protection Authority. Apparently, that advice came in on 29 November. The next step that should have been taken was to go to the government and then send the decision to recognise carers to the Council of State. Was that indeed already forwarded to the Council of State? Did you get that advice yet? If so, what does it say? What further steps do you need to take to ensure that carers can be recognised by a royal decree? When will this royal decree be published and when will people finally be able to apply for family leave? It seems essential to me to do so and to do everything possible. That one royal decision, which recognises carers, is indeed a basis for everyone, both for private and civil servants. There too your colleague is waiting for you so that the recognition would be in order. This recognition must be made through the sickness funds, but you must first include these criteria in the Royal Decree. What remains to be done to ensure that people can take family leave? When will they be able to record that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, it was very ambitious to have the law of 17 May adopted by October. It has already been said at the outset that this was not very realistic, but we have tried to do it as quickly as possible. The fundamental breakthrough in the Chamber was a good thing, although many KBs were referred to which had yet to be signed by myself and Minister Muylle. Everyone knew that the timing was very ambitious. Since it was a completely new statute, the timing was very tight. The sickness funds will grant recognition to the caregiver. There has been a lot of consultation with them to implement the recognition in practical, technical and legal terms in their systems. In addition to the elaboration of the Royal Decree, communication flows and databases should also be developed. We also received the opinion of the Data Protection Authority on 29 November. The draft had to be adapted to the opinion, otherwise it could simply be ignored. It was thus adapted by the administration and also a number of technical changes requested by the sickness fund at the end of last year, was included. The draft is now before the Council of State and we are waiting for the opinion. As far as entry into force is concerned, the 30-day consultation period is open to the Council of State. Then we can proceed with the signature and publication of the Royal Decree. I want the recognition to be there as soon as possible, just like you. As far as Mrs Fonck's questions about the content of the press release are concerned, I would like to point out that everyone – whether they are wage-earners or self-employed – can ask for recognition as a close supporter. On the other hand, the Government binds certain rights to this recognition and is competent for setting additional sub-conditions. For example, leave for close caregivers applies to employed and non-self-employed persons since it is a period of suspension of an employment contract for which the ONEM provides compensation. In fact, the leave for close care is a new thematic leave. The period during which the worker may suspend the performance of his contract shall be set at one full-time month per assisted person. This period may be extended up to a maximum of six months by means of a royal decree. Medical leave, which has a maximum duration of 12 months in the event of a complete interruption, remains. It will therefore be possible to take both types of leave if the criteria for both leave are met. The confusion you are referring to as to the degree of dependence could arise from the fact that the legislator introduced two types of recognition: general recognition and specific recognition for the granting of social rights. The assisted person must be in a situation of vulnerability or dependence due to age, health or disability. This should not be a situation of great dependence. As for the specific recognition for the granting of social rights, the conditions of application are stricter. This recognition is linked to the media situation or the degree of autonomy of the assisted person and thus indirectly targets those with a higher degree of dependence. Mrs Willaert is not here, but I would like to mention that, following the opinion of the Data Protection Authority, a passage was included on the establishment of a central register for caregivers. A number of clarifications were also included in the draft. This was slightly modified in legal-technical and linguistic terms. The model of the Honorary Certificate and the Certificate of Recognition were also adapted at the request of the sickness funds. Budgetary costs are borne by public authorities which will link a social benefit to recognition. For example, the family leave allowance will be borne by the RVA. For the purposes of recognition itself, the legislator has not provided for a financing mechanism. It is very difficult to estimate at this stage how many people will receive general recognition or recognition for the granting of social rights. The figures in the Health Survey show that 9% of Belgians offer care in one way or another. The recognition will enable us to better determine how many carers there are. This will provide guidance to the various policy-makers in the further development of measures in favour of the carers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u17	Madam Minister, the least we can say is that this issue has been dealt with in a way that is nothing but a long, quiet river. It has really been the subject of a combatant's journey, with so many pitfalls that I cannot help but think that some have been organized. The entry into force was scheduled for October 1, 2019, as you yourself said in all languages before the elections. We are already on February 4, 2020! I expect you to respect the law as a minimum and implement it as soon as possible. On the other hand, as far as the content is concerned, the government does not, in my opinion, have to transform the law by royal decrees that would make it a mere extension of medical assistance, as your statement suggests. I will, of course, be extremely attentive to the content of these royal decrees, and I hope that, for your part, you will respect both the commitments made and the law passed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u18	It's good that the end is finally in sight. This law should indeed have been in force on 1 October 2019. It didn't work because things had to be done. In the meantime, we're six months away. Now, with the methods of recognition, the KB is finally in the hands of the Council of State. You said that the deadline is up and that it will be published afterwards. That's good because then people can record it. Can you tell me how long that term is going to run? I have not had an answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u19	I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u20	Normally, that's 30 days. Is that true in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u21	I asked for that advice and signed it, but I didn't tattoo it on my arm. It's gone to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u22	Perhaps it is a good thing that you give this information to the secretariat afterwards so that it can be included in the report. For example, we know when an answer will come and when the KB will be able to enter approximately. I assume it'll be next month. After all, it's getting urgent. I assume it won't take months if it's already with the Council of State. I'm just asking for an approximate timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u23	Madam Minister, family leave should have taken effect on 1 October 2019. I hope, together with my colleagues, that the end will be in sight, as the drafts of the RBs are now with the Council of State. For example, carers are likely to be able to take their family leave within a few months. I will also make sure that these KBs are consistent with the law that has been passed. We need to work within this legal framework. There can't suddenly be another way in KB's interpretation of something that is legally regulated. I also note that there has been consultation with the sickness funds and that the latest technical problems have been solved. Something must also be done about the exchange of information. Is this expected to be postponed? Or is this settled by now?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u24	Madam President, I have nothing more to add. We must now wait for the opinion and then look at the adjustments to be made. The less, the better, but we cannot anticipate the opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u25	You said that a number of things still have to be done. A number of technical matters have been raised by the sickness funds which have since been adapted. I was wondering whether the exchange of information has already taken place, but perhaps I did not understand it correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u26	When I say that a database and data flows need to be developed, that is precisely for the exchange of data, but it has a cost and needs to be technically installed. That is what we are doing from the beginning, and that is one of the reasons why not everything is there. I've already installed enough links between data streams in eight years. All this seems easy, but it needs to be tested and installed, and one must also have money for it. So that's not gonna be ready in a minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u27	It is therefore just that I am asking the question, because I realize that setting up data flows did not happen in one-two-three. So I was just wondering whether we would be further on with that and whether this would delay the entry into force.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u28	No, we are working on this with all insurance institutions, but one insurance institution is already more computerized than the other, and we need to get the slowest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u29	Mr. Van der Donckt is not here to ask his question no. 55002191C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u30	Madam Minister, a few years ago, Parliament adopted the Law of 18 April 2017 reforming the financing of social security. It stipulated that a number of factors of response should be taken into account in the allocation and determination of the equilibrium dose. One of these factors, as set out in Article 23 of the Act cited, is to respect the budgetary neutrality or not of the agreements concluded between the social partners. The concept of agreements may be interpreted in a broad sense. The social partners will have to propose corrective measures. The Government shall then decide whether to implement the agreement in whole or in part and shall also decide on the compensatory measures. A balance of just over 3 billion would have been allocated for 2019, which would have to compensate for the full deficit in social security. I have a few questions concerning the decision-making process. Firstly, have you effectively asked the social partners to develop corrective measures to compensate for the high social security expenditure, as provided for in the Law of 18 April 2017? If no, why didn't you? If so, what specific budgetary measures are we talking about? What specific expenditure was compensated for? What proposed remedies have you or have you not implemented? My second question is one for clarification. Article 21 of the Act refers to an adjustment of the annual national allowance to an ageing coefficient. The State allowance would be increased if there was a significant increase in the effective age of exit from the labour market and if real GDP growth reached at least 1,5%. How is the significant increase in effective retirement age defined today? The law itself does not specify it in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u31	Mr Anseeeuw, the text does not say that the social partners should propose corrective measures to compensate for high social security expenditure, as you think you can derive from the text of the Law of 18 April 2017. He talked about whether or not to respect the budgetary neutrality of the agreements concluded between the social partners as a response factor. The only interprofessional agreement concluded since the entry into force of the law is the agreement for 2019-2020. The government has agreed with IPA for 2019-2020 and is of the opinion that it can be considered budget neutral for social security as a whole. Therefore, no countervailing measures are requested. As far as the ageing factor is concerned, the term "a significant increase in the effective age of retirement" has not been used to date. This requires a royal decision, for which we need a new government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u32	Madam Minister, thank you for the clear answer. I'm a little disappointed, though. You say that budgetary neutrality is not really necessary here. However, fiscal neutrality is determined by both income and expenditure, and we note that the social security deficit has risen to just over EUR 3 billion in 2019, while more than twice as much is expected this year. At the hearings in our committee, the social partners also made it very clear that their social security is theirs, thus effectively highlighting the very great importance of ownership. It is therefore only natural that ownership should be accompanied by a number of responsibilities. As far as I am concerned, the government has really missed an opportunity in current cases to allow them to take that responsibility effectively. After all, they call themselves the owner of social security and the concept of agreements can also be interpreted widely. As far as the term "significant increase" is concerned, that there is a need for a KB, I was already there. But the law dates back to 2017 and it's now 2020 and the government hasn't been in business for three years. I have to say that there is still no KB and that the flou artistique around Article 21 of the law is still a reality. Let us hope that the problem can be resolved quickly, because the financing of social security is precarious. So we certainly do not need any ambiguity or flou artistique here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u33	Madam President, Minister, prostitution is a complex, sensitive and multi-faceted issue. This activity carries with it many problems of our society, in particular poverty and inequalities between women and men. Valuable judgment and morality often prevail over the serenity of debates. Political measures are affected by this, whether they concern voluntary prostitution or networks of trafficking in human beings. In all cases, the words of the persons concerned are often evaded, de facto undermining the legitimacy of the statements made and the measures taken. On 17 December, the International Day to Combat Violence against Sex Workers was held. This day was an opportunity to recall not only the acts of violence against them, but above all to hear the demands of the sector. One of these concerns the legal uncertainty surrounding their social rights. While self-employed status is perfectly legal with regard to prostitution activities, they are denied the right to wage-earning. The state, however, tolerates on the ground a whole series of establishments that use false labour contracts and disguise prostitution behind masseuse or barmaid activities. The State then receives, as with any worker, occupational allowances and social contributions, which are supposed to open rights for workers: pension, maternity protection, unemployment, protection of remuneration, protection against unfair dismissals. When they are brought before the courts, these contracts are often broken and rendered null and void. The consequences are terrible for injured workers who lose all the rights attached to the contributions paid. Madam Minister, since prostitution exists, that it is perfectly legal when it is carried out under the independent status, the Belgian State has a duty to protect the workers who perform it. Do you consider it necessary to strengthen the protection and social rights of individuals working in a voluntary manner in prostitution? What concrete measures do you envisage?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u34	Madam President, Mrs Thémont, I think it is very important that all those who work and therefore also those who work in the sphere of prostitution receive social protection. You point out that the status of salaried worker is denied to persons active in prostitution. They would lose all their social rights if it were found that their employment contract was invalid because it was contrary to the Criminal Code, such as the exploitation of the debauchery or prostitution of others, a provision found in article 380. The fact that the contract of employment is considered null and void because contrary to the Criminal Code does not mean, however, that the person concerned must not be declared to social security. The social security system is in fact of public policy and the mere fact that the employer employs the employee in violation of the Penal Code does not constitute a sufficient reason not to apply the social security legislation. As regards the obligation to contribute, the nullity of the employment contract on the basis of a breach has no direct effect on whether or not a person must be declared to social security by the employer. In this case, the only valid criterion is whether or not the employer has authority over the worker. If it appears that there is no link of authority, an abolition may take place, but it is the application of the general rule which has nothing to do with prostitution in particular. On the other hand, if there is a link of authority, the worker must be declared and contributions must be paid. If this were not the case, the employer would benefit from its offending behaviour, namely, non-payment of contributions. As you know, when a person is declared to the ONSS, his salary and benefits are communicated, through the Social Security Carrefour Bank, to various social security agencies. As a result, wages and benefits are taken into account for the granting of social rights. It is only when the paying agency is informed of the nullity of the contract of employment, through another channel, that the question of whether or not to grant rights may arise. As far as my powers are concerned, the following are applicable in this context. In the case of accidents at work, there is no problem in terms of rights. By imagining that persons are working under a contract of employment, if an accident occurs, that there is a dispute and that the question of the validity of the contract arises in the court, the Workers' Compensation Act provides that the nullity of the contract of employment may not be opposed to the application of this Act. There is no such provision for occupational diseases. However, as in the case of an accident which would have occurred before the discovery of the invalidity of the contract, if an exposure to an occupational disease occurred during the years preceding the discovery of the invalidity of the contract, there is no obstacle to the person being compensated if the disease is recognized as an occupational disease. It also does not exist in sickness and disability insurance. The situation has never been met, even by the INAMI Administrative Control Service. This means that the contribution vouchers are not cancelled and that the insured person's insurability is not called into question. In doing so, the benefits remain in effect since both administrative and medical conditions are still present in the insured person's head. In my view, it would be useful to strengthen the protection and social rights of individuals who work in a voluntary manner in prostitution. However, within the framework of my powers, without amending articles 380 et seq. of the Criminal Code, it is absolutely impossible for me to provide specific protection in the system of wage-earning workers for persons who engage in prostitution. As you know, as a general rule, I am not in favour of creating additional statutes within social security. On the other hand, I am in favour of a single statute, so that self-employed workers have the same level of protection as wage-earners. In this case, a person active in prostitution who registers as an independent worker will benefit from better social protection without a relationship of authority being required. In such cases, a separate status is therefore superfluous.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for this very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u36	Madam Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer. I am glad to hear you say that we need to strengthen the protection of social rights for this type of activity. It is known that it is legal and that there is no indication of a political will to abolish it. It is therefore appropriate to protect the persons who practise this profession. A comprehensive framework must now be proposed, which not only aims at strengthening and protecting the social rights of persons who work voluntarily in the prostitution environment, but also at combating sexual exploitation and pimps. It is necessary to foster a logic of accompaniment and to oppose any repressive vision of people who are, today, in a situation of marginality or precariousness. It is also these situations that lead to prostitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u37	Madam President, first of all I would like to say that I would have preferred to have put this oral question in the Committee on the Interior. I now accept that my question is on the agenda of this committee. Madam Minister, in the context of the structural coordination between the federal and regional consultation councils, the social partners have worked together on the issue of the single permit, the so-called single permit. Indeed, as from 1 January 2019, when transposing Directive 2011/98, the procedure for obtaining a work permit and work permit for employment for more than 90 days was amended. There is now one application procedure leading to a combined title, which includes both a residence permit and a work permit. The opinion therefore underlines that until recently Belgium was a world leader in the smooth and fast delivery of work cards to foreign workers. Since the transposition of the Single Authorisation Directive, Belgium has lost that lead position. In the new procedure, it has become impossible to play briefly on the ball. Where work permits for visa-free persons could previously be delivered within three weeks, it is established that these days, at best, this lasts two months, with extremes of four to five months. In order to significantly reduce the lead time of the new application procedure, in which different public authorities need to intervene, the social partners see an indispensable lever, in particular the digitisation of the procedure in a common electronic platform, as provided for in Article 40 of the Cooperation Agreement of 2 February 2018. The opinion focuses on the functions that this electronic platform should have. It should also be linked to the existing Limosa database. Finally, in their opinion, the social partners ask for the necessary budget to be released as soon as possible in order to get that platform operational in the short term. In doing so, the social partners underline the importance of a single electronic platform to which the federal government and all regions are connected. Madam Secretary, what is the state of play on this central electronic platform? How do you view such a central electronic platform and the different functions as described in the opinion? What is the current treatment period? Why was this platform not immediately implemented? Were the problems not foreseeable? What is your estimate of the cost of that platform? I understand, but you will confirm, if necessary, that the costs may amount to EUR 1.5 million. Wasn't it worth investing that amount earlier?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u38	Madam President, Mr Segers, if you had asked this question in the Committee on the Interior, it would not have made much difference, because it would have been addressed to me just as much. Mr Segers, the application for a single permit appears to be complex because there are several actors involved, namely the Foreign Affairs Office, the four regions, the municipalities and the Foreign Affairs Office. As you know, the cooperation protocol of 2 February 2018 came under threat of a European penalty payment due to the non-timely implementation of the Directive. At that time, the priority objective was actually to prevent this penalty payment. During the discussion of the cooperation agreement, the issue of the common platform was also raised, but there was neither time nor money to deal with it. Apparently, there wasn't enough time to work out all the details and modalities of that platform. A few months later, I took over the powers for Asylum and Migration. At that time, I had to conclude that there were actually a lot of problems. The application procedure was a very complicated system which did not work properly for the processing of applications. This led to both the lead time and the delay in the application procedures. So I immediately asked my services to investigate how to optimize this process. Improving the workflow and eliminating the longer lead times are the absolute priorities. I believe that an electronic flow and a shared electronic platform can be good levers. However, this electronic platform does not replace the workflow of the application procedure. It is, after all, very complicated. It is actually about the transposition of the single permit directive, which is very complicated in our country because of the complex division of powers. The electronic platform would be a good gateway to the application procedure. From this application through the electronic platform, all communication between the different actors in the workflow can then be done digitally. This makes the process more efficient, faster and transparent. The number of steps to be taken remains the same, but if this can be done digitally, while sending the files from here to there, it would be much easier. We have already consulted extensively with all the relevant administrations. The creation of a solid platform must be done in accordance with all actors. This also requires a clear definition of needs. This analysis is currently under way. If we have that analysis, we will also be able to calculate the budgetary cost. To determine who will bear what part of these costs will, as you know, also be a complicated affair. If we have to take that decision with so many people, there may be an opportunity to share the costs as well. You know that this could soon be the nice sum of around EUR 2 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u39	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister, and for the steps that have already been taken. We are convinced, together with you, that this structural step is necessary, namely the creation of the common forum. All in all, that can come with limited costs. For sp.a it is absolutely necessary to get rid of the paper mill and thus to avoid shopping as much as possible via the common forum. There is also the assurance of the identification of applicants and the proper follow-up of the applications. Central security will also improve considerably so that the problem of forged documents can be addressed. At DVZ there is also a lot of time lost due to the many manual filework. It is true that this in itself will not replace the workflow, but now a lot of time is lost due to that manual treatment. If we do not do this and the common forum does not exist, we fear that there will always be a push-through policy, which will ultimately affect the cities and municipalities or which will reduce other tasks within the DVZ. That is why we want to relieve DVZ as much as possible by opting for a strong government and thus a digital DVZ, also to make the RSZ more powerful and to make social dumping better addressed. In this sense, we believe that opportunities have been missed, because we had in the previous legislature a Secretary of State responsible for both administrative simplification and migration. This problem had actually long been announced by the social partners and others. By the time the cooperation agreement entered into force, that common forum should have been completed. This would undoubtedly have brought with it an initial cost, but it would certainly have been earned back by now. Finally, I also hear the stories in which more and more third-country nationals now apply for a single permit in the Netherlands and then come to work via posting in Flanders, and possibly in other regions. Of course, for this reason, too, it is necessary to arrive quickly at the common forum.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u40	Question No 55002708C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question. Questions Nos 55002733C and 55002734C by Mrs Kathleen Depoorter are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u41	Madam Minister, halfway through January, Het Belang van Limburg reported on a case of large-scale fraud involving sickness benefits in Limburg. Between January 2013 and March 2017, some EUR 13 million of unjustified social benefits would have been paid out to at least 257 persons. The media also reported that the pivotal figures would be at least two doctors and some intermediaries of Turkish origin. I have a lot of questions about this, Madam Secretary. First of all, we can see from the coverage.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Did some of the 257 persons concerned end up in the basket at a later check by the medical adviser of the sickness fund or by the doctors of the Office for Benefits of the RIZIV? If so, can you indicate how many of the 257 persons concerned were stopped following a check by the RIZIV or the sickness fund? If not, how do you explain that? Can you also rule out the fact that there was no counseling physician involved in the fraud? Secondly, it is striking that a number of intermediaries were involved. Can you give us more information on how these people worked? Among other things, the intermediaries would have gone with them to the mutuality. Were there any counsellors involved in the fraud? Thirdly, was the fraud co-discovered by the control services, either the DGEC or the DAC of the RIZIV? If so, which of the two inspection services detected the fraud and on what basis? If not, how do you explain that the RIZIV did not notice the fraud? Fourthly, what dates and means does the DGEC have to detect such cases of large-scale fraud by doctors? Do you think these resources are adequate? Fifthly, on the basis of what alleged diseases or medical conditions have these 257 persons wrongly applied for ZIV benefits? Sixthly, is it already known how many of these persons will be recovered from the RIZIV? Will the ZIV benefit of the concerned Tyrol B. and any other intermediaries be recovered with a benefit? Finally, are people who have only recently lived in Belgium and who may have settled here because of the prospect of the benefit, or are they mainly Turkish nationals who have been staying here for a long time and who have already been Belgian nationals?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u42	Mr Anseeeuw, the research to which you refer was not conducted by a service of the RIZIV but by the Antwerp Labour Auditorate, Hasselt department. Therefore, the RIZIV does not have a complete view of the 257 persons to whom you refer. You're gonna have to check with the Justice Department. The Department of Medical Evaluation and Control of the RIZIV examined a total of 103 persons for invalidity, i.e. more than 12 months of incapacity for work, in the context of this study and on the declaration of the employment auditorate. Of those 103 persons, 48 of them, on the basis of this investigation, decided to terminate their incapacity for work. So that's almost one in two. Of these 48, 15 persons appealed against this decision. These 15 professions were dealt with by the RIZIV Benefits Office. One insured person died during the proceedings before the labour court. That appeal was therefore terminated. In the case of four insured persons, the decision of the end of incapacity for work was definitively confirmed, without the possibility of appeal. In the case of one insured person, the decision to terminate was not confirmed. The RIZIV did not appeal. In the case of five insured persons, an expert was appointed by the labour court. That investigation is still ongoing, and no final decision has yet been taken. In the case of four insured persons, the contested decision was confirmed, but they also brought an appeal. A final decision is still to be taken. The Medical Evaluation and Control Service has no information that would indicate that advisory doctors were involved in the aforementioned fraud. The RIZIV has six services including the Department of Medical Evaluation and Control, the Department of Administrative Control and the Department of Benefits. The RIZIV has only assisted the federal police and the labour auditorate in this judicial investigation and has therefore summoned and investigated 103 insured persons. Control and follow-up in the event of incapacity for work shall be carried out by the medical advisers of the insurance institution and by the Benefits Department. The Medical Evaluation and Control Service does not carry out systematic checks in the event of incapacity for work and has only a limited number of doctors-inspectors to investigate such large-scale frauds at the same time as two or three doctors-inspectors. The RIZIV, together with the insurance institutions, is considering improving the quality of the decisions taken by the advisory doctors. There has been progress in recent years. On average, the RIZIV reviews 7% of the decisions submitted to it. Overall, therefore, the quality is high. It is therefore a case of fraud. Our people did the investigation at the request of the labour inspector. It was a really crooked case that is now being dealt with as a court case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u43	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, although there are still a lot of questions. It's not just about one fraud. There are dozens and perhaps hundreds of cases of fraud. You have not clarified how many cases of fraud they are. Also on the question of what role counseling doctors and doctors of the RIZIV have played in the case and above all could have played, I remain hungry. They have a huge responsibility in this area, including in the final assessment of the right to an invalidity allowance. I note that the fraud has been allowed to continue for five years in a row, which, of course, is not a bad thing. That's not a small thing that just slipped through the meshes of the net. The net itself must therefore also be considered. I have asked questions about the ZIV payments that would or will be recovered. I did not get an answer to that either. I have also asked for the assessment of prosperity tourism. I read in the news that these are mainly people of Turkish origin. I do not want to stigmatize anyone, but if that is true, then that is a fact that needs to be examined further. I have asked very specific questions about this, and I have again received no reply. If the quality of your answer is proportionate to the quality of the fineness of the network that should prevent such frauds and large-scale frauds, then I hold my heart for the future. After all, the question is how this fraud could have gone on for five years in a row. You have not been able to give a good answer to that question. So I'm holding my heart for the next five years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u44	Let me remind you that the time allowed is 2 minutes 30 for the question, 2 minutes 30 for the answer and 1 minute for the reply. I know the exercise is complicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u45	Madam President, Madam Minister, following the terrorist attacks of 22 March, federal police officers and psychologists contacted the V-Europe victims' association to seek solutions for police officers affected by the attacks. V-Europe then contacted Israeli experts from the NATAL project, who have specific expertise in this field. Together, they have prepared a train the trainer project to make use of this expertise in Belgium. The project would be in two phases: firstly, the mapping of all Belgian speakers, and secondly, the contribution of the know-how of these Israeli experts in Belgium so that our country has expertise in trauma and support for victims and first responders. The project would last two to three years. The estimated cost is between EUR 300 000 and EUR 330 000. Since CAAMI has a surplus budget of 2019 for assistance to victims of terrorism, the amount of which would cover the project as a whole, V-Europe suggested using this surplus to finance the project. But in order for CAAMI to use this surplus budget 2019 for indirect assistance to victims instead of direct aid, you need to give your consent. On 13 November, in the Justice Committee, you said: "On 5 December, the V-Europe association will present a draft list of experts in post-traumatic care and collaboration with countries with wider expertise. We can learn from it about training." I recall that all parties present at this meeting on 5 December were very optimistic and expressed their support for the project. Unfortunately, since then, you have not yet made the necessary decision to allocate the surplus of the CAAMI budget to the financing of this project. Minister, why didn't you make the decision to allocate the surplus of the 2019 CAAMI budget to fund this project, which was supported by the people involved? Do you confirm that the absence of such a decision on your part means that this 2019 budget can no longer be used to finance this project? Do you support this project and will you make the necessary decisions for its implementation, the need for which is no longer to be demonstrated? When can this project finally be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u46	Mr Dallemagne, an email with a request for funding for the NATAL project was introduced by the ASBL V-Europe in December 2019. I thank them for the draft submitted. This request concerns psychological assistance and the training of experts in post-traumatic stress. I do not object to this proposal, provided that it is properly analysed, in accordance with the procedures prescribed by law. First, the demand for subsidies must be thoroughly analysed by the competent administrations on the basis of their tasks. These include the Public Health FPS, CAAMI, but also the federated entities responsible for, among other things, training and post-acute psychological follow-up. The competencies involved must be respected. In addition, a legal analysis is required in view of the high level of requests, i.e. more than 200 000 euros, in compliance with the law on public procurement. A more concrete and precise specification must be drawn up and the rules for granting subsidies must be respected. Finally, I believe that other associations for victims of terrorist acts must also have the chance to introduce projects in the interests of fairness. I have instructed my services to analyse the content of the project from these different perspectives and to coordinate a detailed opinion as soon as possible. Laws and rules apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u47	Minister, I understand that the rules must be respected. What worries me is that for weeks or even months we have been watching a ping-pong game, when this help is felt to be urgent. I am surprised that with your administration, which has been in contact with V-Europe for a long time, these issues have not been resolved for a very long time. It seems to be a game in which you don't really make a decision. Administrative issues are being raised, while substantive progress could be made much faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u48	Mr.Dallemagne, the application was made at the end of December 2019. We are only at the beginning of February 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u49	No! The request is from...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u50	An email was introduced in December 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u51	You yourself mentioned this project on November 13, 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u52	I know. But we had to make a proposal. This was done orally at that time. I agreed, but we have to follow the rules. Do you think that, on the basis of an email, I can grant 200,000 euros? It doesn't work like that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u53	I understand very well. I regret that it was necessary today to remind the young association, which is probably not yet familiar with the administrative rules, of the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u54	It's better to take the time to stick to the rules so that it goes as fast as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u55	I would simply point out that it has been three years since this association has been trying to obtain support and assistance from the government and that it is extremely complicated for it. To date, she has not obtained anything. That is the reality of things! Madam Minister, it would be helpful if you could help her formulate this according to the administrative rules so that she can finally get support from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u56	I heard about this case through Belga. I'd like to hear from you what's going on. At the end of January, Belga announced that our country had been informed of a network of illegal immigration and that it would have done nothing against it. It was a case in which at least 15,000 Brazilians had wrongly obtained the right of residence here. The network would still be active even now. Through Portuguese and Belgian companies, social dumping in the construction and service sectors was committed. The network would also be active in other countries. Throughout Europe it would even be about tens of thousands of Brazilians. Is it true that our services were informed more than a year ago? When exactly did that happen? Is it true that nothing has been done since then? Why didn't anything happen? If anything were done, you might be able to correct that information. Then what was being done? When? Is the network that we are talking about still active or has it been shut down? How many people are we talking about? If action has already been taken in the meantime, is it about reducing the right of residence? If so, how many persons? Which companies are involved? Are they still active? Were any steps taken against these companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u57	Thank you for your question, Mrs Van Camp. The Belgian authorities have started working on the information provided by Portugal. The phenomenon and this dossier have been on the agenda of the Justice Platform for some time, which also includes various social and labour inspectorates. That platform was established pursuant to the cooperation protocol of late 2017 between Justice, the police and the inspection services. It was legally enshrined in Article 15/2 of the Social Criminal Code. Several investigations have already been carried out under the guidance of several labour auditors which have led to projusti cies. More enquiries are ongoing both in the Justice Department and in the inspection services in order to be able to take further steps, with the aim of stopping the phenomenon. At the RSZ, employees are also currently conducting analyses to provide a network overview to the members of the Justice platform, which should allow them to decide which further investigations are still needed or possible. As long as that process is ongoing, we cannot provide further details on the investigations that have been carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u58	I understand that, too, if the investigation is still ongoing. I am reassured by the fact that we have started working on the information provided and that we are trying to tackle and roll up this network through all possible channels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u59	Debates of the European Parliament 55002925C by Mrs Van Hoof is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u60	Madam President, Madam Minister, during the social negotiations last year, at the request of the trade unions, employers allowed an increase in mobility allowances for the electrical engineering sector. The related condition was an increase in the exempt RSZ amount. At the end of December 2018, a draft agreement was reached on the increase of the mobility allowance ceiling from 0.1316 euros to 0.1569 euros. The lifting of this ceiling gives the electrical engineering sector breathing space. For this sector alone, it concerns 30,000 workers who receive a higher mobility allowance and also for the 4,600 employers it is fiscally beneficial. In the meantime, I heard that the increase in the travel allowance was approved by the Council of Ministers last Friday, but I still have a number of questions. Why did it take so long before the royal decree was signed? When will the Royal Decree be published in the Belgian Official Journal? The amount indicated in the Royal Decree is 0.1579 euros, whereas the national agreement agreed on 0.1569 euros. Is there a reason for changing that amount? What other sectors have asked for an increase in the mobility allowance ceiling? Finally, with a view to the future, the sector is already asking for the current amount to be raised. A possible solution would be to provide an indexing mechanism in the Royal Decree so that one does not have to pass past you all the time. Can this be adapted if necessary? If social negotiations are to be resumed, the mobility indexing will not be implemented by February 2021 with this Royal Decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u61	Madam President, Mrs Samyn, this was discussed at the Council of Ministers, so it will be submitted to the Council of State. The time limit for publication of the Royal Decree and adoption by the Council of State is always the same. If you are still asking for adjustments, then the whole process starts again. Then a new element will be added and the decision of the Council of Ministers will no longer be valid and the whole process of consulting the Finance Inspectorate and so on will have to go through again. That can't be the intention. The flat-rate reimbursement of transfer costs for the electrical engineering sector shall be exempt from social security contributions provided that they do not exceed a certain maximum amount, as provided for in Article 19 (2), (4) of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969 on social security for workers. It is an agreement of the social partners that is being implemented. They had asked for an increase of 20%, while now more than 19% was promised. The Royal Decree should be adopted after consultation in the Council of Ministers; that is what has been done. As the government is in current cases, we are showing greater caution in regard to such adjustments. In addition, several successive steps need to be taken, such as an agreement by the Finance Inspector, a request for advice from the social partners on the draft decision, the obtaining of an agreement from the Minister for the Budget, the validation of the draft decision by the Council of Ministers, which has now taken place, and finally the opinion of the Council of State. After that, the King still has to sign it, after which publication will follow in the Belgian Official Journal. That whole procedure has gone through. For example, on 29 November 2019, the Management Committee of the National Social Security Office gave a positive opinion on the initiative of the social partners in the Joint Committee for the Construction Company to adjust the maximum amount for the relocation fee. We have calculated a number of examples, one of which I will mention for practical purposes. If you travel 2,000 kilometres, you will receive around 500 euros net per year. Therefore, that adjustment corresponds to a normal adjustment of the amount to the lifetime increase for the period 2009-2019. The text is now before the Council of State and is then submitted to the Head of State for signature. If the King has signed, the date of entry into force is foreseen on the first day of the month following the publication of this royal decree in the Belgian Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u62	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. As far as the adjustment is concerned, I have heard you say that this requires a new procedure. Of course, for the sector, I hope that measures can be taken to give the sector breathing space and not always feel bound by an undrawn or unindexed amount. For the workers without a fixed workplace, your answer is positive, because for them a transfer fee is motivating. After all, every penny counts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u63	Question No 55003032C by Mrs Nawal Farih is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u64	Minister, there are about 250 doctors-controllers in the mutual societies. Their role is essential for the 800,000 sick or disabled citizens receiving an INAMI allowance. Already in 2017, shortly after your reforms aimed at the reintegration of long-term patients, there were signs that there was a lack of doctors-control in mutuals to properly implement the new policy. At that time, because of the irresponsible workload of Christian mutuality, one in five doctors working there was suffering himself. In 2018, after conducting an internal investigation, Solidaris concluded that the stress on doctors' work-control had increased significantly since the reform came into force. As we all know, being able to treat people requires a great deal of motivation. However, the obligation to carry out more and more control tasks and to carry out more administrative tasks can undermine this essential professional motivation. Only doctors in excellent health can apply a good policy of reintegration. Minister, have you consulted with the mutual societies and/or their control physicians over the past year? In the meantime, have you taken initiatives to increase their numbers and reduce their workload? Finally, do mutual societies with the largest number of long-term patients who are in charge of most reintegration routes receive additional support?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u65	Mrs Moscufo, I will answer you in Dutch, since the text of your question has been written in that language.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u66	I confirm it. Mrs Moscufo, is it appropriate for you to listen to the minister's answer with the translation? Thank you. It's perfect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u67	I will also give the answer in Dutch. Apparently there is still some confusion because you have used the term control doctor, which is not the same as an advisory doctor. I believe that you are talking about advisory doctors, because control doctors are those who check the incapacity for work on behalf of the employer. At the end of 2017, the advisory doctors of the health insurance funds raised the alarm. They have written a manifesto in which they stressed that they could not fully fulfil their role in social security. You mentioned the reintegration pathways, but this is actually about the period before. The consultative doctors outlined a much broader context. They highlighted, among other things, a lack of support, ICT problems, unfilled vacancies and a real avalanche of administrative tasks. These problems concern me because they jeopardise the guidance of the social security system. As a result of this manifesto, we have not only been together with the medical doctors, but also with the medical boards, the sickness funds and, of course, the RIZIV. That consultation confirmed my idea that the governance of disability insurance needs to be thoroughly reviewed. Structures must not stand in the way of the protection of the social security system. The disability insurance sector is therefore facing major challenges. Many policy initiatives have been taken in recent years, but there is also a need to take steps in the area of governance. A number of initiatives have already taken place. The pact with the sickness funds included a number of commitments on the status of the medical consultant and his core tasks. This is a much wider initiative and the health sector is the starting point. In parallel, a working group was set up in the autumn of last year within the RIZIV which makes proposals on the governance of the disability insurance sector. This can be both quick wins and the development of a long-term vision. This is a working group in which both the social partners and the sickness funds are represented. The results are expected in the course of this year. You also had a question about the budgetary picture. Part of the budget for the administrative costs of the sickness funds is linked to their efforts to reintegrate. This amounts to EUR 25 million. The distribution between sickness funds shall take account of a number of parameters, in particular the number of reintegration routes submitted, the number of new authorisations granted by the counsellors for the exercise of a part-time activity and the number of medical examinations carried out by the insurance institutions. It is therefore a question of financial incentives.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u68	You can reply in French.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u69	Of course, we look forward to the outcome of this consultation with the social partners and mutuals. We still have an important reflection to make on this policy of incentives for mutual societies. We are really not convinced of this policy which puts the carrot in front of the donkey, aimed at making certain results mandatory to have budgets. But we will have the opportunity to come back to this debate over the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u70	Madam Chair, there has been little confusion between the terminology of physician-counsel and physician-control in the questions I have tabled. Minister, the issues of the reintegration of long-term patients have an obvious medical aspect. The follow-up is carried out in consultation with different types of doctors: the general practitioner, the occupational doctor, and the medical consultant, as we will say here. On the other hand, there is clearly a need for support on the labour market, to get as many people back to work as possible. Occupational doctors are, in principle, the ones who know the best about the situation in the workplace. But we cannot expect from them all the expertise in accompaniment. At a conference on long-term diseases and reintegration in November, the Director General of GTB called for better collaboration between the various doctors concerned and those responsible for this support. We question the issue of privacy and the integrity of long-term patients if such collaboration should go as far as sharing the medical records of all patients. Minister, do you already require or encourage mutual health care practitioners to share medical information with attendants, or do you intend to do so? What is your vision about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u71	Ms Moscufo, the RIZIV, the sickness funds and the regional employment services have concluded cooperation agreements for the training and supervision of long-term sick. In the context of socio-professional reintegration measures, an disabled person may receive training through, for example, the VDAB or GTB. The route will be started together with the medical practitioner of the sickness fund. The consulting doctor may also refer the person concerned to the regional partner to identify his/her competences and skills. A project is being developed together with this regional partner and is then approved by the medical consultant. The journey must not jeopardise the health of the person concerned. The application is therefore made in consultation with an advisory doctor and is completed on a specific form by the consultant. The social insured person also agrees to share the strictly necessary data, with respect for his private life. The written consent of the social insured person is therefore expressly requested and included as part of the application form. The starting point of the reintegration paths is to provide guidance tailored to the disabled person. A tailor-made solution can only be obtained if the various professionals go in consultation with the person concerned. It is therefore a multidisciplinary process and communication is by definition important. We have therefore developed a tool: the RIDO application. In the first instance, this tool facilitates the identification of the treating physician, the consulting physician and the occupational physician. Secondly, the tool also provides digital communication channels for a more efficient flow of data and collaboration between doctors. An extension of the application to additional actors can certainly be considered, but we must not forget that this is a transfer of medical data and therefore the consent and protection of the data is extremely important. The tool has been developed that was already difficult enough to allow the exchange of data on a patient between three doctors. In other words, it is three doctors who have a relationship with the patient and therefore professional secrecy must be safeguarded at all times, especially with regard to the employer. That is, of course, important. The patient's consent must also be sought for each decision: no decisions may be taken by the three doctors over the patient's head. If we want to extend this, we must always ensure privacy and professional secrecy. It has already been a very difficult exercise and the multidisciplinary work between the different doctors is yet to grow. There are a lot of formations about it, so I think it's an opportunity for many.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic101x.u72	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is not easy because to be able to get back on the road to work, the attendants and the person concerned must make the right decision. We will remain attentive to respect for the privacy and medical integrity of the persons concerned.
