ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u1	Madam President, Minister, if the question is at the end of October, it is still relevant. I had been particularly shocked to hear the words of Mr Luc Hennart (former president of the Brussels court of first instance and judge at the Brussels criminal court on LN24, on 20 October last in the show "The Evening Visitors". I repeat here his comments on the call for rebellion of the professionals of the Horeca since, at the time, among the health measures enacted, there was "only the Horeca which had to close: "Do not we have to do the opposite, ("accept and be creative")?" It is to say that now we stop and react to these kinds of measures that we do not understand, which are not consistent. Wouldn't it finally be better if the restaurant owners, the bar owners, the carers, whatever the field, could say, "Well, now NO, our restaurants, at all costs, we open them (.........) we no longer accept decisions, we go against these decisions. Perhaps we have to rebel (....)?" How can a high magistrate, who is also a magistrate of the correctional court, leave his reserve and his duty of discretion by making remarks calling for rebellion, while the crisis of the VOCID is more important than ever and the stakes of this period are to reap as much as possible the public's support for the measures taken by the authorities? Mr. Honorary President of the Brussels Court of First Instance is also a magistrate who is often present in the media to show the action of the courts on the correctional level. Of course, the legislator did not leave you with the right of a positive injunction to prosecute this magistrate before the disciplinary court, but the Judicial Code allows you this positive injunction for a measure of order if the person is prosecuted. It seems unacceptable to us to leave these words unanswered. Minister, what is your response to this? Do you think, like me, this is disciplinary misconduct? Are you aware of the intentions of the President of the Brussels Court of First Instance or the Prosecutor's Office to refer the matter to the disciplinary court? Would it not be appropriate for you to ask the Public Prosecutor's Office for a measure of order to be requested from the superior authority of the magistrate?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u2	The question is already a bit out of date. We had to establish how Judge Hennart judged that statements by a police officer who was threatened with a knife to be cut his throat, that she feared for her life, could not be. He believes that agents are professionals who should not be involved in such matters. By the way, he repeated that on Canvas. He said that agents should be better trained and that such statements will not happen again. In addition, he doubted, among other things, whether the police should be involved and whether there should be prosecution in the event of violence on police services. According to him, that depends on the elements available. Mr. Secretary, do you agree with Judge Hennart's rulings?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u3	I thank colleagues for their questions. The advantage of two questions is the following. There were two statements. Either way, I may disappoint you, because I will answer what I have to answer as Minister of Justice. I have also said it to Limburg's interest: I will never blame judges for making foreign statements, nor will I do so in relation to Mr Hennart's statements. I will therefore abstain from commenting on statements by magistrates, because I do not want to serve as a megaphone for this. With regard to Mrs Matz's questions on the advisability of possible disciplinary measures, you know that, as Minister of Justice, I cannot speak on this subject (Trias Politica de Montesquieu). Such incidents must be properly assessed within the organs of the judiciary. With regard to the President's intentions and possible measures of order, I refer to Article 412, § 1 of the Judicial Code, which stipulates that the President or the President of the French-speaking Court of First Instance in Brussels is the natural authority and competent to initiate, where appropriate, a disciplinary procedure in question by a member of his court. I do not know at this stage what his intentions are. I prefer to let the judiciary do its job and not interfere with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u4	Minister, you announced that we would be disappointed by your brief response. Of course, we are particularly concerned with the regime of separation of powers, but, on the other hand, when we see the functions of authority multiplying the calls for rebellion in this way and making such statements, of which the person concerned is customary, this poses a real problem. We know the difficulty for the government to have a series of measures accepted, and necessarily discrimination, people will always find it. If tomorrow we call for the rebellion of hairdressers, aestheticists and institutes of aesthetics, it is not optimal, even if, on the merits, we may not agree with the measures that are taken. Yesterday, he was a mayor. The day before yesterday, he was a magistrate and even politicians who challenged the decisions themselves. All of this is a very difficult task and I regret that we cannot speak on this kind of statement which does not give rise to support but rather to the misunderstanding of a series of sectors in the face of the inconsistency of the messages which are delivered by the functions of authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u5	Minister, that is a sad answer. You don't want to be a megaphone. You're the Minister of Justice. When judges make such statements, it hurts deeply. We see that with the cops, with the police union. They say Mr Hennart's statements are hallucinating. That's a deep rift. We also see in research that police confidence in the courts is extremely low. Those jobs have to keep getting filled out. Such statements do not do any good. I saw a new campaign on Facebook to find new policemen. There we read hundreds of reactions like who wants to do that, or still, who wants to be pissed off or there is no respect yet. The police do not want to take over the task of the court, but they do want justice and protection. We're missing that today. That's what the citizens miss. That's what all the cops are missing out on, which we're definitely gonna need.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u6	Madam President, I would like to respond briefly. I understand what Mrs Bury is saying, but look at the actions we have made. The letter has been adapted to record time. For the previous circular COL 10/2017 it took three years to make it. We've adjusted that COL in three weeks to protect our police. Magistrates can say whatever they want. That is the separation of powers. What is important is the action that politics is taking and that I have taken. Everyone has to stick to that. That's very clear. That is also the thrust of the circular. Acts are sometimes more important than words.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u7	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 55010520C, No. 55010521C and No. Mr Pivin's 55010606C has been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u8	Madam President, Minister, my first question was about what we have just discussed. I have received the answer that the letter has been amended and that actions rather than words are needed. We'll see about that. I will not put these questions in detail anymore. My second question concerns the bourgeois election by the Minister for the Interior. She has announced that she will complain herself, every time violence against the police is used. What kind of signal is that? Does she want to point out that otherwise nothing happens and that someone has to do it? If a bourgeois party complaint is made, it is certain that it will not be referred to the wastebasket. Then there must be an investigation. In itself, that is not the best possible investigation that can happen. It is a very long and lengthy procedure, but the signal itself is not correct. I would also like to mention the overloading of the investigators. What is your position on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u9	Madam President, Minister, last week the Public Prosecutor announced that, after each case of violence against the police, a criminal investigation would continue. The existing circular, COL10/017, will be applied even more sharply and to violence against the police will follow a stricter judicial response. However, aid workers are also confronted with violence and the government agreement mentions violence against aid workers, such as ambulances and firefighters, as well as violence against the police as a priority. It is not clear whether the measures contained in the letter also apply to those aid workers. I therefore have the following specific questions for you, Minister. Is it true that the debrief only applies to violence against the police? If so, what is the reason for this? If no, do the same directives apply to the other categories of aid workers or in what areas are there differences? Would you also like to issue such a letter for violence against the emergency services? If so, by when? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u10	Madam President, Minister, I do not have to explain that there have been many incidents in recent weeks involving violence against police officers and other emergency services. We can only welcome the fact that you want to step up your efforts. There followed a whole wave of communication from different ministers. You said earlier that actions are more important than words, and in this case I think that is important, because we have heard a cacophony of statements. Minister Verlinden said she would from now on become a bourgeois party to violent crimes against cops. Symbolically, that is worth something, but her words were not yet cold or the first experts pointed out that a bourgeois-party stand for the investigating judge would result in a slower and more complex process, which in turn would not be consistent with the speedy right you announced. You also announced that a more stringent letter would be sent. You communicated to the public prosecutor on this matter that the amendments had been made. So there is that communication, but one day later an interview with the highly esteemed Attorney General Delmulle was read in which it was a bit more nuanced: there are still exceptions possible, everyone will not always be prosecuted and convicted, there still needs to be tailor-made work. You should certainly read that interview, because that is, of course, somewhat in contrast to the harsher statements a day earlier. It was also agreed that the suspected offenders would always be arraigned in person at the prosecution. The state's attorney's office is fine with that. The Public Prosecutor of Vilvoorde welcomes this, but immediately adds that his infrastructure is not provided for it. Those were the words, but it is indeed time for action. It has been a turbulent week, which has been well concluded by Mr Renard's statements. However, I will not go back to that, as you have just dealt with it. It will indeed come to the action, because the words alone would create a cacophony. Will any violent person against the police be effectively prosecuted or are there still any exceptions possible? Doesn't the bourgeois-party stand that Mrs Verlinden suggested so much in your plans to punish the perpetrators by means of swift law, unless it's just a bourgeois-party stand at the hearing at the time of the trial? If it has to go through the investigating judge, the case will only be delayed. What influence does the mandatory pre-treatment or personal appearance have on the deployment of personnel, transport by police forces? Are all the parquets infrastructureally equipped for that? If not, will you take care of that? Mr Van Hecke said just now that it is a good thing that this solution should be found for attacks on police officers, but there have also been attacks on firefighters and other emergency services. Will you also apply the measure to the other emergency services? Don't you fear unequal treatment between victims? The opportunity depot for violence against police forces will quite rightly disappear. There's too much dismissal. However, what happens to victims of, for example, familial violence? We don't want to create A and B victims, do we? In every solution offered, there is also a pitfall for another problem. I will not talk about Mr Hennart's statements, but that was the icing on the cake after a turbulent week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the new COL 10/2017 has been in force since Wednesday 25 November 2020. The President of the College of Attorneys-General has informed Parliament of this through the President of the Chamber. You can also find this text on the website of the Public Prosecutor's Office, on which the COLs are published. Apparently that was different in the past, but now there is much more transparency about that. I also hope that you have seen the press conference of the five attorney general on Tuesday 24 November. It is quite unique that the five attorney generals are speaking out publicly about violence against the police. The size is full, as the chairman said. I think it is important to see that the public prosecutor in our country, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, firmly supports this government's ambition for zero tolerance when it comes to serious physical violence against the police. This is a clear, powerful and very clear signal. What does this new COL 10/2017 mean? Firstly, serious physical violence against the police cannot be the subject of a dismissal because of other priorities or lack of capacity. That is what the coalition agreement says, and it is only a few weeks after the coalition agreement has been concluded that we are doing so. This is evidence of vigorous action and action. Secondly, if there is serious physical violence, the suspects must be arrested and the prosecutor will conduct the investigation as fully as possible by exploiting camera footage and hearing the witnesses and the suspects. We'll have every possible investigation done by the police and the police. The parquet has 48 hours to do this. The prosecutor will not make his or her decision until after the suspects have appeared before him or her personally. That too is quite unique, I do not think that it is explicitly expressed in many COLs. The defendant comes face to face with the prosecutor and this is no longer dealt with by telephone unless the prosecutor immediately requests the arrest of the investigating judge. In that case one goes directly to the investigating judge and is then arrested. If the defendant is effectively brought before the court, then it is preferable to opt for quick-track law. This can be done in uncontested cases where the offender is known, in other cases one cannot do so. I will ensure that this is possible by providing sufficient capacity for the public prosecutors and the courts. So we are going to use part of the resources provided for in the policy statement for more rapid courtrooms and better capacity. I was in Limburg yesterday where people are working on a lick-on-piece policy. The fast courts are working well, but more magistrates are being asked to deal with the influx of cases. That's not unimportant. For facts of serious physical violence against the police there must always be an appropriate response from the police. Besides, it does not always have to be about prison because justice is custom-made. Sometimes an alternative apprenticeship may be appropriate, for example through VIAS, which offers programmes on reducing violence. Everything also depends on the perp's personality, the suspect. Customization is always appropriate. With regard to Mr. De Maegd and Mrs Bury concerning the acts of violence against police officers in Ixelles on 14 November, an investigation is under way at the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office, which I obviously cannot rule on. I can only refer to the communication that was made about these facts by the Brussels parish. I know my authority, colleagues. Article 151 of the Constitution states that the Minister of Justice determines the general policy of prosecution. I did, with the College of Attorney General. Mr Van Hecke and Mrs De Wit, we initially focused on the violence against the police in the COL 10/2017. The circular COL 10/2017 was the result of repeated claims made by the police unions and their numerous contacts with the judicial authorities. The trade unions wanted the worrying problem of persistent violence against police officers to be addressed by means of a specific instrument that would ensure a rapid, effective, dissuasive and uniform judicial response to such unacceptable facts. The special feature of the circular COL 10/2017 is that it consists of two separate shutters. The first part is devoted to the use of acts of violence against the police, and the second part, which is less attention to but also applicable, is about the violence used by police officers in the performance of their duties. You will see that, in my policy paper, I have dealt with both of them. Sooner or later there will be an incident with violence by the police, colleagues. I hope you'll be as mundane as you are. As regards violence against other aid workers, I refer to Article 410a of the Criminal Code, which has been amended several times in recent years. We are talking about emergency services, ambulances and firefighters, but also about guards, bus drivers, OCMW employees, and so on. There is a separate COL 3/2008. I have asked the College of Attorneys General to consider how we can adapt this COL in accordance with the government agreement. That's work for the next few weeks. Finally, the question of the bourgeois-party status has been raised by a number of colleagues. Minister Verlinden's ruling dates from before the amendment of COL. I spoke to her about that, of course. It had the justified fear that if the COL was not adjusted, it would still be possible to dismiss it for opportunity reasons, insufficient capacity or other priorities. Since then, the COL has been modified. I've just explained that to you. There is therefore no longer any possibility for the reasons I have listed. In short, I believe that we can do this perfectly in concordance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u12	Thank you, Minister. It was a good answer. I'm very curious about the COL10/017. We see more resources. I would like to ask a question about the current state of affairs. I am very curious to see whether this will be resolved in the short term with speed rooms, more capacity, more judges and the alignment that has now taken place with the bourgeois-partying of the Minister of the Interior, which is no longer necessary and will not unduly slow things down. So I'm curious. I am very curious about how all this will work in practice, how quickly the jobs can be filled out and how quickly the courtrooms can be put into effect. I'm very curious.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. First of all, I agree with where you say that if one no longer applies opportunities, this means tailor-made work. This does not automatically mean that everyone has to appear before a criminal court, but that there is a wider range of possibilities and there can be a reaction. That could be mediation, but it could also be a service, community service or whatever. This customization is very important: taking into account the profile of the perpetrator, backgrounds and the like, one must proceed to the appropriate response. That's what this is about. That is very important, I would like to emphasise. Secondly, it is also very important. You point out that the COL 10/2017 is not only about violence against the police, but also about violence by the police. You challenge us a little bit, but I guarantee and promise that when it comes to police violence, we will also ask questions about this. We will therefore point out that what we have agreed in the coalition agreement must also be implemented. The coalition agreement made a very clear decision to take violence for and against together. One is unacceptable, but so is the other. You have once again emphasised this very strongly in your policy paper: we must also expect police services to act correctly. The two shutters are important. Thirdly, you refer to COL 3/2008 as regards the other aid workers. It is important that this exercise is made and that we pay due attention to it. I remember the periods, often around New Year, where in some cities the police are called up, pounded and attacked. These things are not acceptable either. Appropriate action in this area is always necessary. We are therefore also looking forward to the amendment of that COL by the College of Attorneys General.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u14	Minister, it is true that COL is there very quickly, which is very good, but in itself it is still words that will have to be applied in practice. I saw the press conference. I'm happy with those decisions. I would advise you to read the interview with Mr Delmulle, which is a little more nuanced than the more punitive statements made before. I agree that tailor-made work must be done, but say that immediately in your communications instead of using punitive language: they are punished, zero tolerance. Customization is never in communication when something like this is announced. That's how people get off on the wrong foot. Minister, you said that the personal appearance is in the COL and that there are not many COLs in which that is stated. I can refer you to the Code of Criminal Procedure. It doesn't always have to be in COL. In some cases, the law simply states that the person concerned must be arraigned, even for the prosecution in heavier cases, but that does not happen either. Why doesn't that happen and it's handled with a phone call? This has to do with the time frame and the infrastructure to be able to do so safely. Investigators often have an office building where it can be done safely. It's not like that everywhere. I don't know if you've come to visit Mechelen yet. Investigator Van Linthout will probably have pointed this out to you. Some modern courts are provided for this, others are not. There will indeed be a need for resources. That brings me to my last point, Minister, because there too it will come to actions instead of words. Today they are mere words, because the extra resources are not yet in your expenditure budget. We will only know in March whether it has not just been words but whether there will be action.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u15	Minister, the Royal Decree of 15 March 2017 contains a list of acts recognised as terrorism. On the basis of this list of 18 acts, victims can apply for financial support. The current list includes only terrorist attacks involving victims of our nationality or residence in our country. For terrorist attacks in our country, the victims are of course known, which is less evident for victims of attacks abroad. For this group of victims, it was checked before the list was drawn up whether any of the victims had already registered with the committee. Mr Minister, why has the list of recognised terrorist attacks not been updated since the attack in Liège on 29 May, two years ago? Are you planning an adjustment to that list? What arguments do you make for your answer? When is the adjustment planned for? Has any advice been obtained in the context of a possible update of the list of recognised terrorist attacks? If so, at which agencies? What is the meaning of these opinions? If that hasn't happened yet, what's the reason for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u16	Mr Creyelman, the decision to recognise is a policy decision taken at government level. In the case of an act of terrorism committed abroad, the victim must have Belgian nationality at the time of the act of terrorism or have his habitual residence in our country. That is what Article 4 of the Law of 16 July 2004 on the Code of Private International Law states. In other words, such recognition makes no sense if there are no victims of Belgian nationality or residing in Belgium. A recognition by Belgium of such acts of terrorism is made only in order to provide financial assistance to the victims of terrorism and has no intention whatsoever of interfering as a country in the policy of the country where the terrorist act took place. To date, I have not received any knowledge of victims who would benefit from the recognition of new acts of terrorism. If I have to deal with it, I will, of course, investigate this thoroughly. As I have not yet received any requests to amend the list, no advice has yet been obtained.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have to admit, I expected more of it anyway. You are never too shy to make a harsh statement or make a spectacular announcement, and certainly not in your barely disguised fight against my party, a battle for which you dare to confuse Islam criticism with Islamophobia, and uncomfortable news with what you call online then hate speech. In such cases, you show your willingness to work proactively. But that same zeal, that same eagerness, I can't find now. It seems to be missing when it comes to effectively supporting victims of terrorism, including by adapting this list and proactively looking for victims. Then, Minister, we hardly hear you or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u18	Mr Creyelman, what acts of terror are you talking about? Can I know that one? What acts of terror after May 29, 2018 are you talking about? Tell me about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u19	After May 29, 2018, you say? July 17, July 30, August 31. You can just look up those data on Wikipedia. That's all I had to do. If I can, you can. I'd like to give you the list between pot and pint when the catering industry is open again in this country. Deal?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u20	No, I didn't. I would like to ask you the list of terrorist acts involving Belgian victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u21	My comment was that you can proactively look for it. Every victim is not necessarily aware of the fact that he has to make that application. That is what I have said, nothing else, you must not put words in my mouth that I have not spoken. In the meantime, I'd like to send you that list of attacks by e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u22	The next question is: 55010907C by Mr Rigot, who is not present for the time being. Mr Verduyckt is not yet present for his question No. 55010954C. Mrs. Bury is here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u23	Minister, I have the following very important question for you. During the first lockdown we saw an increase in intrafamily violence. There are still a number of questions on the agenda for this afternoon from colleagues. If the victims have already gone to the police several times and the violence continues to drag and gets worse, then the victim can file a criminal complaint with bourgeois parties. A number of people have informed me that they have made such an attempt during the corona crisis. In Brussels it is usually possible to lodge a complaint at the Registry of the Office every Tuesday and Thursday. For French-speaking complaints, this is on Tuesday and Thursday mornings and for Dutch-speaking complaints on Tuesday and Thursday afternoons. One goes to the Registry with a deposit of EUR 500 and waits his turn. But during the corona crisis, we can't do that anymore, as we are now working by appointment. One has to call, which is very difficult. After all, the general number is usually unreachable. If you get a direct number from an investigating judge, the Registrar will tell you whether or not that investigating judge is being forwarded to you, because the next day it will be someone else. If we finally get a hearing there, it will be for those who are on call. There is absolutely no time to answer the phone because one interview is taken after another. That person of guard will then ask to call back the next day, but they will call another investigating judge, and they will find another guard. Either it is asked whether the urgency can be demonstrated and perhaps an appointment is made to file a complaint. The person who told me didn't file a complaint and went to the police again, but that's not how those cases should go. The service, especially in corona times, must be guaranteed. I understand, of course, that safety is paramount and that the waiting room should not be full, but I still have the following questions. Why can such a complaint not be filed digitally and a deposit lodged in an account? In this way, the victims can be helped in an easy way and do not have to go to Brussels. Probably a lot of victims haven't called at all and they're standing there and they can't get in because they don't have an appointment. How will you ensure that these matters can be submitted digitally and how will you guarantee the service?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u24	Thank you for your question, Mrs Bury. It is, of course, important that the victims of domestic violence can find easy access to the investigators in order to always be able to lodge their complaints with bourgeois parties. The law today provides for "a declaration of civil parties to the investigating judge." This means that the digitisation of the complaint requires a legislative change. I take your suggestion to heart. It seems to me to be a good idea that I will have the feasibility checked, because I notice that cities and municipalities and more and more police zones allow agreements. Sometimes they work only by appointment. The appointment can be made not only by phone, but also by digital means. At least in my city this runs very smoothly, to the satisfaction of the staff and the service. In the case of the Justice Department, things are slower; I do not need to remind you of that. By the way, I've noticed that in the meantime. In anticipation of the digital appointment, which seems primordial to me, we are still working with the phone. The phone was invented so many decades ago. With the carrier pigeon you can no longer do anything at Justice, unless in certain other procedures. A telephone number is on the court's website, I am told, but apparently most people still come to the window physically in person, given the gravity of the facts. In this way an appointment is made according to the urgency. The assessment of the urgency, as I am told, is marginal. This means that most complaints are accepted. However, if there is a discussion about urgency, the file will be submitted to the investigators' blanket. The intention of working by appointment is, as you yourself say, to limit the number of people in the corridors and to spread over time, given the corona times. We have no knowledge of complaints about this method. The complaint shall then be lodged in person by the person concerned or by his lawyer and the consignment shall be made in advance at the Registry. The conclusion is that we need to make this possible digitally, so that distance agreements can also be regulated and recorded and access to justice made easier.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u25	That's a hopeful answer, all the more so because you think an improvement is primordial. The service is really hard to reach. Possibly they could be reached with smoke plumes of a high enough fire, but that is not really of this time either. You're talking about digitalization for appointment management. I would like to go further into that. It should be possible to lodge the complaint, not only with police forces, but also with public prosecutors. E-mail addresses should be available so that the complaint can be submitted by e-mail. After that, it is still up to the investigating judge to verify that the complaint is complete. The complaint must also be signed, so a digital signature must be added. All this must be possible by 2020. In 20 years' time, a complaint must not continue to be filed physically, with signature. We have to go with our time. We really need to be there for the victim. The victim arrives at the window, but is not allowed to enter the day itself. It is not even clear whether the urgency is accepted or not. Many victims, for example, are also very difficult to spot because of the lack of a car. They may have to travel half a day. A number of actions and not just the making of an appointment should be digital. It also seems very simple to me that the deposit will be deposited in an account. It is also not very safe to walk around with a deposit of 500 euros in Brussels or in another city. It's not like this time of year to walk around with those amounts in their pockets. Payment must also be digitally possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u26	Minister, 'Field Code' is a very old word. Parliament has indeed made an adjustment this year. I do not go into details, but the most important thing is that something has happened with this adjustment, which no longer makes an exception for trees in the public domain, when it comes to the rules for neighbors. That's how we made those trees much more vulnerable. From a number of contacts I have understood that this was not really the intention of the legislator, although it is now in it. As a result, a number of nature associations have applied to the court. What do you intend to do with that? Are you waiting for the legal battle, or do you think it's okay to change the rules now?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u27	Mr Verduyckt, thank you for your pertinent question. However, as you yourself say, this question is currently pending, as it is well known, at the Constitutional Court. There is a direct link to the questions you are asking, so I think it would be good to wait first for the analysis and, above all, for the Court's ruling before considering any change. I can assure you that if the Court gives a ruling on this matter, we will comply with it and, if necessary, amend the legislation. That goes without saying
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u28	That is, of course, a logical answer from you, Mr Minister, because you yourself are mayor and you know how difficult these discussions are. Putting a tree next to a road makes sense only if it can happen at regular distances. I myself once experienced these discussions with neighborhood residents and wouldn't want to make it any harder on our local mandatars than it already is. I think the action of nature associations is quite logical in itself. We will await the Court's ruling, but if it says that we need to amend the legislation, I hope that we will do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u29	Madam President, Minister, in this dossier concerning this Basque woman, there was the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which considered that Belgium had not done enough research into the real risk of violating its human rights. The ECHR also explicitly stated that Belgium should not extradite. Justice refused extradition twice, but in the end Mrs Jauregui was extradited to Spain on 22 November. The Spanish court would have assured that the person concerned would not be subjected to inhuman or degrading treatment, but added that she would be imprisoned in a prison on the other side of Spain, far from the Basque Country. The situation of Basque political prisoners and their families in Spain is well known. The country is not a frontrunner in terms of respect for human rights, as it appears in Catalonia. Mr Minister, why did the Justice Department suddenly act on this matter and was Mrs Jauregui extradited? What guarantees has Belgium obtained from Spain regarding the further treatment of this lady?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u30	Madam President, Minister, on Sunday 22 November, Mrs Jauregui Espina was handed over to Spain. In Ghent, where she lived for 17 years, she is known as 'Jaione'. Her counsel, Paul Bekaert, sees political motives behind that. He has also explicitly said this in the press. He fears a life sentence. That is also why many people in Ghent are very worried about the fate of Jaione. In 2013 and 2016, requests for surrender were rejected by the Ghent Chamber of Inclamation, as the Spanish anti-terrorism law undermines human rights, in particular the right to a fair trial. The Board of Appeal then referred to a report of the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman Treatment or Punishment of the Council of Europe, which looked with particular attention at the separate procedures and detention conditions for persons suspected of being associated with the ETA in Spain. Belgium's sentence of 2 July 2019 by the European Court of Human Rights paved the way for surrender. Belgium has not appealed against this decision. In the meantime, I have seen the footage of Mrs Jauregui's tradition at the Madrid airport. These are made, distributed and still available on the Spanish national police website. They were also shown on numerous media. She's locked up in Sato del Real's prison near Madrid. This is a prison other than the prison that was declared by the Spanish investigating judge on 8 January to the court of appeal and the Board of Appeal. So she is not locked up in the prison which the Spanish court had informed us of. In the meantime, I have also been able to look at a report from the Spanish authorities on how she is locked up there. She's in solitary isolation in a cell, 21 hours a day, all alone. She can spend three hours a day on a covered courtyard. For the rest, there are no activities or anything. That is the typical regime used for people suspected of terrorist activity and, in particular, for links with the former ETA. That is a special way of holding someone who has simply lived in public over the past few years and was not a fugitive. She has also always offered herself, together with her lawyer, to the judicial authorities when she was requested to do so. Mr Minister, why did Belgium not appeal against the ECHR's conviction in the Jauregui case? Why did they decide this time to hand her over? Do you agree with me that the arrival of Mrs Jauregui, mediated by the Spanish Policia Nacional, raises questions? This course of action is in any case contrary to Article 35 of our law on the police office, which is based on the right not to be exposed to public curiosity. How do you respond to the fact that Mrs. is locked up elsewhere than was communicated by the Spanish investigating judge? Has the Belgian justice system been informed of this in advance? Do you have any guarantees that will remove the doubts about the right to a fair trial, which were at the root of the refusal to deliver Mrs in 2013 and 2016? Finally, is there any possibility of following up on the proper treatment of Mrs and the course of her process?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u31	Mr Minister, the facts have already been outlined by colleagues. Until recently, Maria Jauregui Espina was a native of Ghent with Basque roots, who was known for her cuisine talent. Today she was imprisoned in a Spanish cell after she was handed over on suspicion of the murder of Lieutenant Colonel Ramón Romeo as a member of the ETA. The Court of Cassation ruled that the woman had to be handed over to Spain no less than 39 years after the facts to bring her to justice. In itself, the above facts should not form a basis for questions, since one EU state transfers a suspect to another, but all too often legal questions can be raised in cases of surrender to Spain, especially when it comes to opponents of the unitary Spain. I think everyone knows the examples, such as the Basque couple Moreno-Garcia or the Catalan President Puigdemont. Again and again the question arises as to whether the human rights of suspects can be guaranteed as a political minority in their own country. Apart from the specific facts in this case and from whether or not the woman is responsible for the murder, the same question has been asked here for years. The doubts surrounding the Spanish rule of law are based on concrete facts, as shown by numerous Amnesty International reports. In 2019, after two previous attempts, the Spanish court tried to obtain the surrender a third time. This time, the counsellors of the KI decided to contact the Spanish authorities to what extent they would follow the strict law on the treatment of terrorist suspects. The answer was that the law does not apply in this case, inter alia, because the facts have been so long ago and there is no danger that the evidence provided will disappear. On this basis, the Ghent KI decided that the person concerned would not be subjected to detention conditions that would lead to inhuman and degrading treatment and that the surrender could continue. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. How will you ensure from Belgium that the detention of Maria Jauregui Espina is protected from inhuman or degrading treatment? How will you occur when it appears that the treatment on which this surrender is based is not guaranteed? As has already been said, international reports state that Spain does not recognise the principles of the rule of law with regard to minorities with a political view that goes against Spanish nationalism. Can we count on you to raise this misconception with your Spanish fellow Justice Minister and with the European Commissioner for Justice? What commitments are you willing to take to ensure this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when a European arrest warrant is issued for a person on Belgian territory, Justice will act. The first arrest warrants of the Spanish authorities, dated 9 July 2004 and 1 December 2005, were declared enforceable by the Council Chamber of Ghent by order of 16 October 2013. However, Ghent's KI refused to implement it and the appeal brought by the federal prosecutor was rejected on 19 November 2013. On 8 May 2015, the Spanish judicial authorities issued a new European arrest warrant. Both the council chamber and the AI rejected its implementation. The appeal was dismissed again on 27 July 2016. On 9 July 2019, Belgium was convicted by the European Court of Human Rights in the proceedings initiated by deterring the victims' survivors from the facts in the European arrest warrants because the investigation of the Belgian courts was not complete in order to assess a real and concrete risk of breach of the ECHR in the case of the surrender of the person concerned to Spain. The cooperation obligation was therefore not complied with and the procedural aspect of Article 2 of the ECHR was therefore infringed. Judgments of the European Court of Human Rights are final. There is no appeal. In exceptional cases, the case may be referred to the Grand Chamber. However, a referral of the case to the Grand Chamber is only possible in exceptional cases, in particular where the case raises a serious question concerning the interpretation or application of the Convention or its protocols, or where there is a serious matter of general interest. On 16 October 2019, the Spanish authorities issued a fourth European arrest warrant for the person concerned. This time, the CI of Ghent asked the Spanish authorities to provide answers to the questions raised regarding the conditions of detention and the free access to a counsellor of your choice. By judgment of 5 November 2020 in the Ghent AI, the European Arrest Warrant was declared enforceable on 16 October. The KI motivated his decision in detail. Reference was made, inter alia, to the guarantees offered by the Spanish authorities regarding detention conditions and access to a lawyer of his choice. The appeal of the person concerned was dismissed by judgment of 17 November 2020. The federal court therefore enforced the judgment. In Belgium, the necessary steps were taken to ensure that extradition takes place in all discretion and without too much perseverance. The law on the police office, to which you refer, applies only on Belgian territory and on Belgian police services. The guarantees are set out in the AI's judgment. The regime of incommunicado detention, i.e. detention in full restraint, cannot under any circumstances apply because in this case many years have passed since committing the facts, there is no danger of evidence being concealed nor danger of third-party life or escape from the course of justice of a third-party person. The right of access to a lawyer of his choice is also guaranteed. Colleagues, of course, the European Convention on Human Rights and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union apply in our country, in all the countries of the European Union and thus in Spain. This Convention and Charter must be respected. This can be monitored by diplomatic means.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u33	Minister, I have already referred to it in my question: Spain has the habit of keeping Basque political prisoners spread and isolated, far away from the Basque Country, in an attempt to psychically crack them. This makes it difficult for parents, children and friends to reach the prisoners. As colleagues have already said, Spain has been criticised several times by the United Nations Committee against Torture and the European Court of Human Rights. You are talking about guarantees, but these guarantees are actually just a piece of paper. That must be addressed diplomatically. We saw the footage. We saw on Facebook the reports about what's happening to her. She's isolated. This goes against any form of respect for human rights. I would also like to refer to the Convention against Torture. Unreal or degrading treatment or punishment is more common in Spain. It is really regrettable that Spain has already violated the Treaty several times. In fact, this should have been sufficient reason not to extradite women, Minister. That should have been sufficient reason, given what is happening in Catalonia, to see what has happened to Basque people in previous cases. That should have been enough reason. It seems that for Belgium, principles of the rule of law and human rights are subordinate to diplomacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u34	Minister, these guarantees from the Spanish authorities are, of course, important. I simply note that you also indirectly indicate the contrast between the way Mrs Jaione was treated here, far away from the press and in silence, and what happened in Spain after the tradition. She's really almost there like a trophy for the cameras put by the national police. You can view these images on the website of the Policía National. I don't think that's normal. At some point she even has to take off her health mask, so that her face is completely visible to the viewer. Those images were distributed in the media by the Spanish police themselves. They were also shown on the VRT. I have questions about that. It is also true that she is currently in a different prison than was said. She spends 21 hours a day alone in a cell. She can go out three hours a day, even on her own. There's got to be someone next to her on all her phone calls. She can send up to two letters a week, except for correspondence with her lawyer. I am not a specialist, but it does not seem to me to be a normal prison regime for someone who is suspected of facts 39 years ago, someone who has lived in public for decades, who lived in Ghent, who offered to the authorities with her lawyer. I have serious questions about that. I would therefore ask you to continue diplomatically to ensure that these so-called guarantees from the Spanish authorities are implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u35	Minister, I agree with what colleagues have said. You are talking about guarantees, but the concern about the further progress of this matter remains of course. We know Spain's reputation. We know that they have repeatedly violated the principles of the rule of law. Amnesty International knows that, too. We know the examples. We know what happened to President Puigdemont and the nine Catalans who are still in prison. That was enough reason not to go into extradition. We trust, Minister, that you will continue to monitor, possibly through diplomatic means, that these guarantees will be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u36	Minister, the corona pandemic has made homework for many people the new reality. Unless physical presence is really necessary, everyone is expected and required to work as far from home as possible. This is also specified in the Ministerial Decision implementing the corona measures. Of course, homework in the prison system is not so obvious. One can't just put a guard at home and have him guarded from home from prisoners. That impression one might get when reading the title of the question..... but there is a number of possibilities. In prison there are also many administrative functions, wherever that should be the rule. All that is needed is the provision of a laptop so that employees can do the administrative work at home. However, some prisons would not be able or willing to provide a laptop. As a result, despite all the regulations in force, employees have to work locally. That does not always seem to be the right approach today. First of all, is homework possible today in the prison system, for example for administrative functions? If so, for which functions is it possible? If not, why not? Secondly, some prisons would not want or could not make available a laptop. Can you confirm that? If so, what is the reason for this? Will you take steps to remedy that? If so, what steps and when? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u37	First of all, teleworking is possible in prison, but not always and not for everyone. Employees who hold positions listed on the list of teleworkable functions may, under normal circumstances, work telework. That arrangement falls within the regular policy of the FPS Justice. It's mainly about staff from the psychosocial service and the board. Those employees all have a laptop. So there is no problem for them. The number of days of telework was increased following the decision by the Consultation Committee. Permanentity on the work floor is mandatory, as there is a need to keep in touch with the detainees and not to be able to carry out all tasks remotely. The continuity of services is thus guaranteed in all cases. In addition, there are employees who hold a post which is not on the list of teleworkable functions, but who may exceptionally work telework during the corona crisis. These include staff from the Registry, the accounts and the secretariat. Here too, a permanence is mandatory. These employees do not all have a laptop and there is sometimes a practical problem. I will come back to that in a moment. The rules to be complied with in teleworking have been described in detail. The maximum number of staff in quarantine shall be allowed to work by telework. Employees who hold monitoring functions, technical functions and functions in the provision of care cannot work telework because of the specific nature of the job. Contact with inmates is indispensable in the performance of their duties. Secondly, the laptops that were in stock at the outbreak of the corona crisis were distributed among the prisons on the basis of a key and concrete needs. The laptops are used for the organisation of virtual sessions with courts and other partners, for video visits between inmates and family and telework of employees who do not have their own laptop. The laptops for different purposes are not interchangeable, as they were specifically configured. Each prison thus already has a number of laptops for telework, but they do not meet the needs and possibilities everywhere. Therefore, laptops specifically designed for telework have been reordered in the meantime. In this context, I have been told that there is currently a global shortage of suppliers, resulting in delays in deliveries. Once the laptops are delivered, they are configured and distributed across the prisons. From then on, employees can work more often, but not unlimited, as not all tasks can be performed remotely. The local services in prison must be guaranteed at all times, in the interests of the detainees, external professional partners and their own employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u38	For some functions of course always or at some times physical presence will be necessary. The questions that reached me concerned functions where the physical presence is in principle absolutely not required and the administrative work can be done perfectly from home. A number of practical problems have been encountered, such as the lack of a laptop. Of course, that's a shame. Everyone is trying to work at home in this difficult situation. Hopefully the order will be quick and the problems can be solved quickly here and there. A number of staff are really looking forward to that. This will enable them to continue to work for an important public sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u39	Mr Van Hecke, do you know what prisons this would be about?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u40	I do know that, but the person in question is afraid that he would become known. I'd like to share that with you personally. However, it is a delicate matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u41	That's not delicate at all. The person must be absolutely able to say that. Tell me the information and I guarantee discretion. Things that don't go well have to be put right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u42	I'll do what I can for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u43	Madam President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u44	Mr Vanrobaeys, the fate of the victims of the attacks by the Gang of Nivelles is of course important to me. As you know, the progress of the investigation is in the hands of the federal prosecutor. You understand that I want to give the investigation every opportunity. The decline in DNA has indeed been delayed as a result of the corona crisis. It is difficult to say when the entire DNA study will end, for several reasons, in addition to the already known delay due to the corona crisis. No member of staff assigned to the cell detectives before the Gang of Nivelles was moved in the context of the corona crisis. As for your third question, I suppose you are referring to the 2017 Royal Decree, which recognised a number of terrorist attacks, such as the Bataclan on 13 November 2015 and the Maalbeek Metro Station and Zaventem Airport on 22 March 2016, as terror. In order for acts of terror to be recognised, a whole procedure must be followed. It is not obvious, I shall say it mildly to allow the facts of the Gang of Nivelles to be recognised as acts of terror, as long as the investigation has not been able to shed light on them. I will, of course, look at the possibilities of achieving maximum satisfaction for the victims. I come to your fourth question. For me, it is clear that we are looking at the dossier from the glasses of the victims and the next of kin as much as possible. We can hardly imagine the impact it must have on the victims that the Justice and Police have not yet succeeded in bringing the perpetrators to court. First of all, therefore, I would like to see maximum transparency with regard to the victims, even though I am aware that this is not clear, given the secret of the investigation, which is really important. As far as Parliament is concerned, too, I will continue to exercise this balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u45	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I agree with you more than ever that we should give the investigation every opportunity. In 2018, however, we had enormous hope. Now, two years later, we still see several press releases appearing, but the truth is still not coming out. In any case, I hope that it will emerge before the statute of limitations enters into force and that the victims will at least know where they stand. As far as recognition as a terrorist act is concerned, I think it is important. I know the victims have already received compensation from the Victims' Fund, but money will never express the suffering and trauma of the victims. It is mainly about the recognition as a serious act of terrorism, of which they have been the victims. When I talk to them, it turns out that it's also about them feeling abandoned. I would therefore like to make an appeal to you. After 35 years, there is still no clarity. The investigation goes on and on. We don't know where it's gonna end yet. In addition to the recognition as a terrorist act, there might also be some sort of general pardon, in which the government acknowledges that it has abandoned those involved and made mistakes in the investigation. That is a first important question for me. I also see that the victims of the Gang of Nivelles find the victims of other acts of terror, such as those of 22 March in Brussels. What they've both been through, they can put together that way. However, there is no expertise built up within the government to guide these people. Sometimes traumas only come out years later and it can be very difficult to find specialised help for that kind of trauma, hence my questions. I hope, of course, with you, that the research will progress and that the parties concerned will receive answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u46	Mrs Matz withdraws her question No. 55010330C in.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u47	Madam President, Minister, we are very concerned about the increase in violence against women and the speed with which femicides succeed each other during this second confinement. In ten days, four new femicide victims were registered in Belgium: Ghislaine, France, Sofie and a 50-year-old woman whose identity is unknown; four women brutally torn from their families by their (ex-)partner. When Belgium was first confined in March, experts cautioned against increasing domestic violence. Unfortunately, they were right. We now know that the number of calls received by the hotline 0800/30 030 (Listening to Violence in Marriage) doubled during this period. This is a fact: the health crisis is leading to an increase in violence against women worldwide. In Belgium alone this year, 21 murders of women were committed. With this second confinement, the number of femicides increases at an alarming rate. Several measures have been taken by different levels of government, such as the release of hotel rooms for women in need of shelter. Immediate initiatives must be taken, because there is an urgent need. Minister, what steps will justice take to avoid an umpteenth femicide? What will be the timetable? Will they be taken immediately? Will you communicate with the various actors in order to collect some figures on the extent of the violence committed during this health crisis that does not seem to stop? You deplore the lack of data in this area. However, there must be some information. What figures can be obtained in direct or indirect connection with the issue of femicides or the continuum of violence? Can you explain them?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u48	Madam Chair, did Ms. Matz drop her questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u49	Yes, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u50	As you know me, I had prepared an answer to each of the attached questions addressed to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u51	Minister, I'll take it all! There's no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u52	If it is easier for you, Minister, you can answer the whole question. It is thus included in the Integrated Report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u53	Madam President, I could dissect the answer, but I have limited time. I'll try it anyway. The fight against sexual and domestic violence is and must remain a top priority. I would like to point out that the Social Emancipation Opinion Committee held hearings in January 2020 on domestic violence. During these hearings, experts from the organizations made recommendations on how to strengthen policy in this area. In order to work on this, the aim would be to arrive at a resolution supported by all the political groups. A meeting of the Advisory Committee on Social Emancipation took place yesterday, at which each political group proposed recommendations that were discussed. For Justice, combating sexual and domestic violence is a priority and will remain so throughout the health crisis. The Istanbul Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence serves as a guideline in this regard. In addition, GREVIO published its evaluation report on Belgium in September 2020 and made a series of recommendations, which Belgium will ensure are integrated into the implementation of future initiatives and the development of future instruments. Many measures have been taken to combat sexual and domestic violence. Thus, discussions will resume on the reform of the Criminal Code. The chapter on sexual crimes will be treated as a priority – as I have already said on many occasions – so that it can still be incorporated into the current Penal Code and enter into force as soon as possible. In addition, a supplementary opinion from this committee on femicide will be requested. In addition, the Department of Justice has already developed a plan to combat sexual violence in the previous legislature. To this end, we will take additional measures, such as more effective DNA analyses, the development of the ViCLAS database, specialized police training, and more targeted measures for the collection and processing of data on sexual violence. Sexual violence centres will increase from three to six next year and to ten before the end of this legislature. I learned from the mayor of Genk, Limburg province, that the Genk hospital will house a health centre. In West Flanders, my province, it will be the hospital of Roulers. Increased attention will also be paid to the rehabilitation of the author, with a focus on his support and psychological follow-up, in order to reduce the risk of recidivism. The development of the Family Justice Centers and the chain approach to sexual violence in a family context will also be on the agenda. We will fully implement these measures. The Family Justice Center is an asset in the fight against domestic violence. I saw this, especially during my field visit to the beautiful province of Limburg yesterday. The temporary residence ban had been significantly improved by a law of 5 May 2019. Circular COL18/2012 has been completely revised in the wake of this law, to take account of these developments, to clarify the contours of the mission of the house of justice to the remote person, to emphasize the central role that the king's prosecutor must play throughout the duration of the measure and to the role of the police in monitoring compliance with the measure. The revised version of this circular was issued in May of this year. A person fleeing a situation of violence is considered to be making an essential displacement. The ban on being on the public highway at night does not apply to these situations. This may involve both physical and psychological violence. The circular to generalize a front-line risk assessment tool for the police and prosecutors' offices will enter into force in January 2021, in order to enable awareness-raising and presentation work to be carried out in each jurisdiction for the judiciary and the police. Each public prosecutor's office will have to provide for meetings between magistrates and police services in each district around this circular. I would like to reiterate that the government has adopted a federal action plan to combat gender and domestic violence following the second wave of VOCID-19. The plan calls on prosecutors to continue to consider cases of violence as a priority. In addition, the College of Public Prosecutors will call on prosecutors to implement more systematically and rigorously the temporary residence ban on perpetrators of domestic violence, and on judicial personnel, in particular judges, to implement the new version of Circular COL18. Here too, Mr Boukili, the beautiful province of Limburg is exemplary for our country! I would also like to inform you that the recommendations of the report of the High Council of Justice on "Pistes for a better approach to sexual violence" will be implemented. I said it and I appreciated the recommendation from the N-VA when we discussed it. Of course, I hope to convince all my colleagues in this government to adopt this recommendation. Justice plays an important role in the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Women's Rights, where we are responsible for the follow-up component. Have no doubt, Mr Boukili: as I said recently in the presentation of the general policy note, I intend to make this struggle a top priority! In this context, I have already started discussions with other competent authorities at the federal and federated levels so that a plan can be drawn up as soon as possible. Justice takes and will fully assume its responsibilities in this regard. Finally, with regard to the lack of data, and as mentioned earlier in a question on your part, Mr Boukili, there are no direct or indirect figures of femicides and the continuum of violence at the level of the public prosecutor's office and the central judicial case. On the other hand, we have figures on domestic violence in general. At the judicial level, the database of the College of Attorneys General has "prevention" codes and "specific context" codes. With regard to conviction statistics, the Criminal Policy Department has published statistics on convictions, suspensions and internments since 1994 on the basis of the Judicial Case. The statistics of the Criminal Policy Department indicate the nature of the offences, the decisions taken, the population tried and the courts. On the other hand, no information on victims is recorded at the level of justice, except for elements of legal qualification or aggravating circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u54	Minister, thank you for your answers. We understand that Limburg is an avant-garde province. I hope that this will be widespread throughout the country. I am glad to hear you say that the fight against violence against women is a top priority because this scourge is only getting worse in our society. You really have to take this problem with your arm-to-body. We agree that measures must be put in place as a matter of urgency. You talked about the Penal Code. I fully agree, but initiatives must be taken immediately. You mentioned some measures and you announced that figures on sexual violence would be available, but what about femicide? You say there are no numbers. Would it not be important if there were to be a clearer overview of this problem? Will a database of femicide figures be created? These data requirements are also required in the Istanbul Convention with which you are certainly in agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u55	Since we have to end this committee meeting at 3.45 p.m., we still have time for one oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u56	Minister, during the discussion on your policy statement, I asked you about the hiring of new prison officers. This is necessary to deal with the massive influx of prisoners that will be caused by the policy you want to implement but also to deal with the already existing overcrowding. You replied that the necessary resources were foreseen, but that the difficulty was to attract new talent to fill the framework. However, you do not propose any concrete measures to improve the status of agents. Prison officers are known to be among the heroes who fight in the front line in the war against the pandemic. CGSP Amio sent you a letter on 18 November, reminding you of the harsh realities of prison work in times of crisis. While the workload of the officers has increased particularly during the first wave, the consequences of the second wave are even worse. There has been an explosion of contamination in prisons, which has increased the number of work stoppages, adding to the shortage of staff. The additional stress experienced by staff and inmates during this period of restrictions only increases the risks associated with the exercise of this profession. In recent months, the government has taken a number of initiatives for the particularly exposed sectors. The premium for medical personnel is a good example. There is a need to structurally improve the working conditions of prison officers and to increase their remuneration in general. The granting of a single premium is not sufficient but, under the present conditions, it is also an indispensable support measure for this staff. Minister, are you planning to award a bonus to prison officers who worked during the pandemic, along the lines of the caregiver premium? What other exceptional support measures do you intend to take for prison officers? Are you planning a structural adjustment of the salaries of prison officers to make it more attractive? If so, how long and to what extent? What structural measures are you planning to make the profession more attractive?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u57	Mr Boukili, thank you for your questions. As far as the first is concerned, I fully understand your point of view. It is true that a bonus was granted only to health personnel because it was on the front line during this coronavirus pandemic and that the same personnel continue to protect our public health. The prison officers, as you pointed out, had to stay at their posts in difficult conditions, but they were not the only ones who had to do so. I have the greatest respect for all the professionals who stayed at their jobs in difficult conditions during this crisis. You will understand that an exception has been made for caregivers. I would add that I also have a thought for all those who would have wanted to work, but who could not, without that being their choice. Since the beginning of the Corona crisis, numerous measures have been taken to enable employees to work in the most correct circumstances possible. Thus, the prison administration has efficiently communicated the various measures and instructions in the context of the management of the pandemic. A wide-ranging communication campaign has been put in place with regard to prison directorates so that they can pass them on to all their staff. All staff members can send their questions about the management of the corona crisis and the various measures taken to an email address and receive an answer in return. From the beginning of the pandemic, masks were distributed to officers and subsequently to inmates in prison workshops. Many protective products have been made available to prisons. Finally, I would point out that since the beginning of the pandemic, a psychological aid unit has been organized and set up for the telephone listening of all the staff of the Justice FPS in the context of their support and crisis management. Agents may therefore be given the opportunity to contact these psychologists. Third question. The law of 23 March 2019 on various aspects of staff status, which is linked to the ambition to work more effectively on the execution of the prison sentence, aims at structural upgrading. In particular, it is necessary to allow the staff to be adjusted for employees who, on the one hand, are primarily concerned with the supervision and safety of buildings and persons and, on the other hand, for those who are mainly concerned with the supervision, the supervision of prisoners in section or in the framework of activities. The objective of the recently launched project is to further differentiate multifunctional missions from monitoring and technical staff so that they can then be further developed taking into account their specificities. Indeed, it is outdated to mix monitoring missions with technical or logistical missions. It is necessary to invest in the further professionalization of these missions, which will inevitably result in differentiating functions. These differentiations will also be noticeable in recruitment, selection, information, remuneration and career development in order to encourage employees to develop their careers in a targeted manner within our organization. Working groups within the administration have begun work on this project. Fourth question. The profession of prison officer is already of certain interest. It presents both opportunities for career development at the baraemic level, a correct wage offer and opportunities for initial and continuing training throughout the officer's career. My ambition is to professionalize and further differentiate the function, in particular by creating specific profiles more in support of inmates in their reintegration efforts, which will improve the satisfaction gained from the daily work that will be more than just monitoring than ever before. The profession of prison officer is a profession that combines orientation towards human contact and, in parallel, includes all aspects of security. For young graduates of upper secondary education, this is a valuable experience. All these elements need to be further emphasized because the work of prison officers is enriching, even if it is never easy. Difficulties are often relayed in the press, which gives a biased picture of what the function actually represents. I will therefore try to focus on what works rather than always point out what works less well.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u58	Minister, thank you for this detailed answer. I've heard you talk about structural upgrading. You're giving some interesting leads that I hope will succeed. On the other hand, you also evoke the generalization of the Rosetta plan, which is much less enjoyable. Indeed, this plan has been criticized, in particular by prison authorities, trade unions and staff, as it causes a lot of turnover and does not allow a certain degree of stability in prisons. This stability is necessary in order to gain useful experience in this profession. Minister, you know the situation of prison officers better than I do. It is not only difficult in the Corona period; it was already difficult before. Among the main problems, there is a lack of staff. There is a deficit of more than 400 agents. The lack of attractiveness of the function is due to the wage aspect and working conditions in general. Here, too, you are talking about leads that I hope will come to fruition. If this sector is to be quite attractive and offer positive working conditions, many measures need to be put in place. As far as the premium is concerned, Minister, you said that my reflection was justified in view of the period but, unless I am mistaken, I did not hear you respond positively or negatively. What is your position? Do you agree to grant a bonus? Could you clarify that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u59	Mr. Secretary, would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u60	Mr Boukili, I think I've made it clear. On the occasion of my answer, I said that a premium had been provided, on an exceptional basis, for caregivers. But the issue of the granting of other bonuses is not on the government table.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u61	As a result, there are no allowances for prison staff. I heard your answer when you mentioned the bonus, on an exceptional basis, for the health care staff who deserved it. But, if I understand correctly, there will be no bonus for prison staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u62	We must end the sitting so that this Chamber can be prepared for the next committee at 4 p.m. We are at the same time asking questions. Debates of the European Parliament The other questions will be for next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u63	Madam Chair, Minister, can I turn my next question into a written question?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic308x.u64	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Boukili's 55011123C is therefore converted into a written question.
