ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u1	Mr Minister, according to recent reports, the construction of the new multipurpose ships or M-frigates for the Dutch and Belgian Navy is once again delayed. It is currently unclear when ships will actually be in the water. It would be about time-consuming and complex assessments of specifications, bids and the desired time frame for employability. You know that in a world with increasing instability and a changing geopolitical situation, effective defence is extremely important, hence my questions. Can you explain the situation more clearly, as well as a state of affairs throughout the file? Where is the problem currently according to your data? What is the expected lifetime of the frigates currently available to the Defense Department? What impact will the current delay have on the costs involved? I am thinking of maintenance costs and any other costs. Initially, it was proposed to have the ships deployed by 2024. What is the deadline?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u2	Mr President, I agree with the questions already put and will not repeat everything unnecessarily. It is a good thing that countries work together, especially if we do so, as in this case, together with the Netherlands in the field of defence. The problem is that our Dutch colleagues are responsible for this purchase. I'm curious about the delivery time. When will the frigates be effectively at sea? Have there been any contacts with the Dutch colleagues? What'd they get you? Will all necessary weapon systems be purchased and installed as foreseen, as there are problems with a number of orders?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u3	Minister, there have been disturbing reports in the press about the growing delay in the delivery of the four M-frigates for the Belgian and Dutch Navy. There's been a year's delay. It is important to know the cause, should that delay be confirmed. The reason would be the difficult discussions between the two countries on specifications, bids and the desired time limit for employability. The Navy is our Defense Department's flagship. Cooperation is a best practice at European level. It is therefore important that the joint procurement procedures proceed very well, with as little delay as possible and as many obstacles as possible. Hence my question about the state of play in the purchase file. Are the reports in the press correct? What are the causes of the delayed delivery date? What is the status of the agreements with the Dutch government and with Damen? What contracts and memorandums of understanding have already been signed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u4	Minister, I agree with the questions put by my fellow Members. We are now in the B phase of the project. The attention was drawn to the derogation report of the Dutch Defence Department, which communicates very transparently or at least gives that impression. I quote from this: "In the B phase, defense strives for the best balance between the factors product, time and money, for both the Netherlands and Belgium. In this project, the examination of this balance proved to be more time-consuming than expected as a result of complex assessments with two countries on specifications, offers and desired time limits for the ships to be deployed." The B-Letter was therefore postponed from September 2019 to the summer of 2020, which has or could have consequences for the deadline of signing the contract and placing in service of the first ship, which would shift from 2024 to 2025. I therefore have the following specific questions, Minister. Can you confirm the facts? Why did the Defense decide not to communicate on this, unlike the Netherlands? Communication suggests that a different vision between our two countries is at the root of the delays. Can you tell the differences? Does this relate to our question for ballistic Missile defence for the frigates? Are the obstacles now removed so that the signing of the contract can take place at the end of 2021? If not, what initiatives will the Defense put in place to facilitate negotiations? Does the delay have any effect on the price, the inclusion of budgets in the budget or the phasing-out of our current frigates?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u5	The next questioner is Mrs Depraetere, but she is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u6	Mr President, the Memorandum of Understanding for the joint replacement of the M-frigates drawn up in 2018 together with the Dutch Defence Service provided for the replacement of the current M-frigates of the Dutch and Belgian Navy by the end of 2030 at the latest. There is close contact between the Dutch and Belgian administrations, while at the present stage of the project a number of designs are weighed against each other in order to strike a balance between the different requirements of the future platform, for the foreseeable budget and the planning aspect. At present, the main challenge lies in aligning the choice of platform, armament and sensor and radar system according to what is described in the MoU. The technical requirements and specifications are further developed in parallel. They will be used as an annex to the future contract for the effective construction of the M-fregates. In addition, some 30 contracts have already been concluded since the signing of the MoU to carry out studies and investigations for the purpose of replacing the M-fregates. The replacement of the M-fregates will be equipped with the necessary systems, weapons and sensors for self-defense against surface and air target threats with the focus on underwater threats. Future platforms will be designed in such a way that additional and/or other sensors and weapon systems can be integrated to withstand future threats and also allow BMD capacity (Ballistic Missile Defence) to be developed.The maintenance planning and conservation budget of the current M-frigates will not be compromised.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u7	Mrs Ponthier is not here at the moment. I shall now give the floor to Mr Mahdi.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u8	It's still unclear what's going on. I understand that it is not easy for the Minister at the moment to look into a glass ball and to know when the frigates will be there. However, it remains very important for the defence sector to clarify it as soon as possible. I hope that the Minister will use his contacts with the Dutch colleague to follow up the dossier. A collaboration with the Dutch colleagues is always good. So we can share responsibility for one piece. However, this responsibility should not lie entirely with the Netherlands. So we have to play the ball briefly. As far as equipment is concerned, I am pleased to hear that there is a possibility of making additional weapons systems possible in the future. These weapons systems can be integrated. The purchase of the frigates is a serious investment. Further modernisation is and will continue to be important. At least that's a little bit of positive news.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, although you have not answered the question that most of us have actually asked. Is there a delay or not? We have not actually heard a clear answer to that. That's too bad. We need transparency, especially in view of what has already been published in the press. You know the position of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. We're very fond of the Navy. It is one of the specialties of the Belgian army. We support an expansion and a strengthening of our naval capabilities. We hope that this dossier will come to fruition soon. We, as Members of Parliament, are entitled to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u10	Minister, the N-VA Group believes in the Navy, just like Mr De Vriendt, but it also strongly believes in good cooperation with the Netherlands. We were spotted in trouble. The Netherlands communicated in a relatively open way. It would be interesting for the Defense Department to make the exercise to communicate in a similar, slightly more transparent way. In such a trajectory there are constant problems. That's what happens in those complex files, but I'm trying to read between the lines that some of the problems that were there last month have been solved. However, I would warn you that we do not buy an empty ship. It is easy to buy a frigate, but it is important that it is also equipped and has the required specifications, namely both ballistic missile defense and submarine combat, and so on, so that it can operate from day one and be operational. That is something to take into account in the future of the journey.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u11	Mrs. Depraetere is not here. Are there any other groups that would like to join us? [[No, no, ……]] That concludes this topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u12	Mr President, Mrs H annoyance cannot be with us this morning, she would ask you to excuse her.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u13	I would like to hear from the Minister or the Minister and, if not, why this did not happen. When the framework contract was drawn up, the participants were asked to pack the mouth masks separately and hermetically in order to distribute them to individual citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u14	Mrs Depoorter is not present for her question No. 55007059C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u15	In the context of this topical debate, I would like to make some adjustments to my question in the light of the information published in the press in the meantime. Minister, there is an increasing number of voices in the Defence Staff regarding the purchase of 15 million masks by the Defence, and many today are saying that they are in a bad mood after the contract was awarded to Avrox. Indeed, it seems to me that it was not the Defence that drafted and changed the requirements of the tender and modified the 60-degree washing requirement into one recommendation. It was the Office of Standardization (NBN), which is under the Ministry of Economy, which made this change as surprising as it was suddenly, shortly before the market was launched. A question therefore needs to be asked: has the NBN relied on scientific advice to make such a major change in this call for tenders? Recently, you replied - a little naively, in my opinion - that virologist Marc Van Ranst agreed with the 30-degree washing recommendation. Mr. Has Van Ranst been consulted in advance with a view to drafting the latest specifications? Is it the same for Sciensano, whose role it is to give his opinion as a public body? It would appear that the answer to this question is negative. According to our information, Sciensano considers, like the WHO, that the 60-degree standard remains applicable and that the term "recommendation" implies that it is imperative to wash masks at 60 degrees. However, the masks provided by Avrox do not meet this criterion. Therefore, why, at what time and on what grounds did the NBN change its final attitude in the specifications? Have there been any outside or Defence interventions? Had Avrox ever had any contact with your own department or with the Ministry of Economy? In addition, has Defence been concerned about these sudden developments and Sciensano's position before or after the award of the contract? Finally, why are some in the General Staff today concerned about the turn of events that you are now discovering? According to Laurent Hericord, director of Avrox, the company changed its corporate purpose to respond to the tender for the supply of 15 million masks. Until then, Avrox's activities consisted mainly of the rental of vehicles. Was the Defence in contact with Avrox before it changed its statutes? Why does Defence award a contract to a company that does not appear to have any expertise or vocation to provide masks?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u16	Mr Minister, since the beginning we have approached the dossier of mouth masks with an open mind and without falling into cheap criticism. Even though you have always answered our critical remarks correctly, there are new questions that I would like to put to you. Firstly, why has the 60-degree washing rule in the NBN S65-001 document, the technical requirements for the mouth masks, become a recommendation in version 1.1 of 28 April, while it was still required in version 1.0 of 24 April? Secondly, why is it sufficient in the case of the masks supplied by Avrox, a washing temperature of 30 degrees instead of 60 degrees? Thirdly, why is the washing instructions in the mouth masks not stating that they should be washed with soap? Fourthly, is the non-individual packaging of the masks supplied in accordance with the specifications? Fifthly, on what day was the "document de consultation du marché parte 2" delivered to the manufacturers? How much time did the manufacturers have to register? Sixth, the masks of Avrox and Tweed&Cotton have the highest piece price. In their case, what made the difference? Seventhly, were the criteria used in the evaluation of tenders used? With what weight?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u17	Mr. Chairman, since I had tabled several questions, I will try to bring them together both in a way that is easy for the minister and in order to save time. Minister, we have already been able to discuss this issue on several occasions. Nevertheless, there are still areas of shadow about certain information that appears in the press every day. I would like you to inform us about the likely spread of one or more candidates in relation to the famous 60°C standard, which has turned into a recommendation. Can you confirm the veracity of these facts with regard to the spread of a candidate bidder on the basis of this criterion of 60°C? How many candidates could potentially have been affected by the same problem? Could this problem be explained by the change in standard during the market? We have also heard the Belgian textile professionals, who have expressed their anger, in particular through the press. Can you provide us with more detailed information on the selection of the tenders received from the tenderers? I would also like you to provide us with clear information on the tender concerned and on the actual delivery times and the reasons for each bidder's bid spread to this procurement. Then there is a problem of compliance of the masks. In any case, the textile industry denounces this non-compliance, as well as the virologists and even pharmacists who have to distribute it, for various reasons. So, Minister, can you assure us that these masks are not a danger to public health, as some people can read? Can you explain why this change in standard in the marketplace and why the 60°C requirement has become a recommendation in the marketplace? At whose request was this done? Can you explain why these masks cannot finally be washed at the recommended temperature since the start of this crisis by many scientists and even by WHO? I would like you to confirm that the masks received meet all the technical requirements of the specifications, as stated since the start of this contract. With regard to the biocidal treatment of these masks, several companies such as Creamoda, Febelsafe or FBT are drawing the alarm bell in relation to this biocide which is used in the treatment of the masks we received by Avrox. I would like you to reassure us about the biocidal treatment of these masks, and to confirm that, contrary to what some claim, it does not constitute a danger to us or the environment. We would like to obtain reassuring answers and a "true truth", if I can say so, on this issue, which raises many questions and which worries scientists as well as politicians and citizens. Thank you, Minister, for your answers, which I hope will be complete as usual.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u18	Mr President, Minister, this Monday, the distribution of oral masks purchased by the Defense to the Luxembourg company Avrox began in all pharmacies in the country. According to the PDB, the country's 4,800 pharmacies distributed about 200 masks every minute on Monday. And yet, in the testimonies of pharmacists gathered in the press, but also in those of pharmacists in my surroundings, they say that they do not have much more clients than usual. For the little story, my mom went to get her masks on Monday. She wasn't in her age range, but her usual pharmacist told her: "As you're here, I'm already going to give them to you, because I don't think people are going to run into each other. I'll probably have a lot left." After the controversy over the award of the contract which I will not return to, let's go back to the washing temperature. Some things will have to be clarified. According to some - I take the precautions of use because I wait to have your answers that are always very clear, minister - this washing criterion was included in the specifications. Some bidders even say that they were excluded from this procurement because they did not meet this criterion of 60° washing. However, the Luxembourg company Avrox has distributed masks which are not intended to be washed at 60 years old. Candidates were visibly rejected on the basis of this criterion. I'd like you to be able to take stock once and for all of the situation. New problems have arisen in recent days. First, the masks distributed in pharmacies are packed in packages of five units. This could, according to the people who questioned me, lead to a risk of contamination, since the masks must be removed from the packaging. It's not an individual package of each mask. Several pharmacists have told me that it is particular that there is manipulation. We have to open the package of five. My mom got two for her and my dad. We have to open the package of five. The mask is not packed individually. This could pose a potential contamination problem. Secondly, according to the sector organizations Creamoda, Febelsafe and FBT, the masks were treated with a nano-silver antibacterial finish, which would make them - again, I take the precautions of use - dangerous for health and the environment. According to these organizations, "the use of antibacterial biocides is very controversial. Superbacteria - resistant to most antibiotics - could be created in case of excessive misuse." Minister, to date, two days after distribution began, do you know how many masks were distributed in pharmacies? How do you explain that the masks are packed by five units and not individually? Could there be a risk of contamination? Could you reassure us about this possible risk of contamination? How do you respond to industry organizations that denounce the fact that Avrox's masks have been treated with a non-compliant antibacterial finish? Do you confirm or deny these charges? Finally, what initiatives are being taken to build up stocks to deal with a possible second wave?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u19	With some delay, all mouth masks are from the purchase of defence and the distribution of the population has begun.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u20	Mr Minister, I find the discussion about the usefulness of the masks and whether or not the order should be placed frustrating. After all, we are experiencing a very important health crisis and everyone worldwide was looking for mouth masks. I think the Defense Department did what it had to do and could do: in a hypercompetitive market, look for masks. That happened, even quite quickly, given the circumstances. I think that we will be able to use these masks anyway, even because there may be a second wave coming. That's why we'd rather have a little too many masks than too little. In that respect, I find the criticism of the Defense Department somewhat misplaced. However, some clarification is needed in relation to the masks, given the temperature at which they need to be washed and the possible poor quality from both the point of view of public health and the climate. That criticism comes from a certain angle. Some competitors who have taken on a major task have launched their own communications that help neither Defence, nor society, nor public health. That is why I am particularly curious about the concrete differences between the mouth masks we received from Avrox and those offered by competitors such as Creamoda, which communicates on this subject quite freely. What is the essential difference in production technology between Avrox's mouth masks and competitors' mouth masks? Is the difference in cost also essential? Could competitors' mouth masks be delivered as quickly or possibly even faster? If there are risks associated with the supplied mouth masks, what steps will be taken? Is there effective damage to the climate? Is this damage greater than with other mouth masks, whether ordered by the Defense Department or others? I do not think it would be wise to clarify this, so that we can put the debate behind us and look forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u21	For the introduction of my question, Minister, I would like to refer to the written record of my question. To make a long story short, the saga with the mouth masks is already taking a while. A first part was about the supplier, then a part about the washing temperature........................................................................................................................................................... All these things can be discussed and opinions expressed, but we will not do that today. What worries me more now is the message, which is also the source, that the mouth masks would be harmful to public health because they were treated with a silver ion-based biocidal product. I will not dwell too much on it, but I do have a few questions about this. Even though the first one is a question of intent, I would like to have an answer to it. What is your response to the allegations regarding biocidal products? Do you recognise that the mouth masks in question have been treated with a biocidal product, whether or not based on silver ions? I understand that there is a debate on this too. Does the treatment, according to your colleagues from other departments, pose a risk to public health? What exactly are the risks involved? If the risk exists, will you consider stopping the distribution of the mouth masks or calling them back? The competitors that my colleague has already mentioned, with whom I do not have any contacts for the sake of clarity, have a lot of problems with the checks carried out. I would have liked to know exactly what controls were being carried out on the mouth masks. How were they carried out and by whom? Are you prepared to make the results of the checks public and to provide full transparency, as you have done more or less for all other parts of the file, possibly in consultation with Avrox? Will you order an additional study on the presence of biocidal products? If not, what arguments do you have for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u22	Minister, in the program It's not every day on Sunday, you said that the NBN standards on masks indicated, at the beginning of the procedure, a resistance to washing at 60 degrees while, at the end of the procedure, the standard had been updated and the 60-degree washing was now recommended. I'm an engineer and I work with these standards. Every time, I'm faced with their rigidity. So, minister, how can they have been changed in the middle of a process of buying 18 million masks without the buyer knowing? Who is modifying this standard? How? Which committee did he give his permission? I would be very interested to know your answers, because I am trying to change certain NBN standards to promote this energy transition that we are seeking so much to achieve. I am therefore impressed by the speed of normative change!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all your questions. As always, I will ensure that I respond as fully as possible. I assume that you will accept that I answer you first on a general level, before dealing more specifically with each other's issues. The first question was last asked by Messrs. Vicar and Dallemagne and it dealt with this norm. I simply recall that Defence was not involved in its development. As I indicated, we first worked on a standard issued on April 24, which was then changed and communicated by the Standards Bureau. It was the 28th that we moved to a new standard, then integrated into our specifications - because we had to do it, and that is quite logical. When an independent body communicates a standard to us, we take it back in the specifications, so that it will serve as a basis for further work on the contract procedure. Mr Vicar, you reminded us: we have simply adopted a standard, which is not the task of the Defence, but of the Office of Standardization. The question of the reason for its evolution is quite legitimate, but it is not for me to analyse it. You're an engineer; I'm a lawyer. When a new standard is communicated to me, I make sure it is applied. Defence Procurement simply took it back, so we moved from a 60-degree washing obligation to a recommendation - I'll come back to that later. I really want to be very specific, Mr. Dallemagne. Earlier, you talked about "naïveté" about washing temperature changes. Mr Vicar, as an engineer, you asked me a perfectly legitimate question on the basis of your own experience, which taught you that a standard is difficult to change. On April 24, we only took note of a standard, launching the market on that basis - at the request of the government - on April 27. We are aware of a new standard. Very naturally, we note the elements applicable to this market in the new standard. You know that this Office of Standardization does not fall, either closely or by far, within any functional level of Defence. We have applied this document with a supervisory authority called the SPF Economy. As far as washing temperature is concerned, this was not an indispensable requirement in the specifications, but only a recommendation. It is therefore not possible to consider a company to be non-compliant on the basis of the washing temperature of its product. The company that is often cited has been excluded for a set of other criteria. I will come back to that at the end of the answer. I would point out that since 14 May the case has been under analysis at the Court of Auditors. The masks delivered can be washed 60 degrees or at a lower temperature as long as a washing product is used. The higher the temperature, the longer the mask will be used. Mr Dallemagne tells me that I am "naïve" when I repeat the words of a virologist who believes that washing with a detergent type washing powder is enough to make the virus disappear. It's the exact image of what happens when you wash your hands. I am also just repeating expressions, and the demands of a standard that no longer imposes it. This standard has indeed evolved. It is quite normal to seek out why. Our mission is to apply a standard. What would we not have heard if we had kept the first standard and not the second one? We can all agree that, when faced with a market and standardization, with technical elements that do not fall within the immediate competence of Defence, it is quite normal to apply the legally founded standard. We really need to insist on that. Indeed, I have heard troubles, doubts, questions. I have always said that Parliament was also here for this: to carry out a task of monitoring and questioning. But we have to ask the questions where they should be asked. With respect to this change in standard, which Defence has strictly applied, I am telling you that it was the NBN that changed this standard. I have no opinion on this change, I am not a scientist. This Office of Standardization is under the supervision of the SPF Economy. Indeed, we have strictly applied this normative element. Mr. Prévot, I don't know your mom and I wouldn't allow myself to ask who she is. I am pleased that pharmacists are flexible. I'm not going to ask your mom to go back to the pharmacy for a second time, even though we all know that pharmacists are very welcoming people. Beyond this small element, we have chosen the distribution chain of pharmacies. The three APB, Ophaco and Pharmalux associations have created a temporary association represented by APB. The Defence has entered into a contract with this temporary association, as well as with the twelve distributors. All stakeholders will therefore be paid for their benefits. The Defence has been responsible for distribution for the twelve distributors who are responsible for distribution to pharmacies. The distribution to the population is therefore based on age, as determined by the Public Health FPS. If there are masks on surplus over time, Mr Verduyckt, they will be recovered by the Defense Department by the opposite route. Mr. Dallemagne, the Defence awarded the contracts to the bidders who responded to the request and issued all the evidence requested concerning the mandatory grounds for exclusion, relating to tax and social debts, and the qualitative selection criteria for the references requested. Mijnheer De Vriendt, Madame Chanson, come to the market consultation document, Part 2. That document was delivered to the firms on Thursday 30 April at 11.35 p.m. and an answer was expected by Saturday 2 May at 12 noon. The price offered by Avrox and Tweeds & Cottons was not the highest. The award criterion was first the total guaranteed delivery capacity of 18 million masks at weeks 20 and 21 and then the total guaranteed delivery capacity of 50 million masks at weeks 20 to 23. As many participants were selected for participation in the framework agreement as needed to obtain the total minimum supply capacity of 18 million mouth masks. No consideration was used in the evaluation. The price was only decisive in the case of an equal supply capacity. All tenders had to meet the requirements of the special specification. The offer of the tenderer Illbebag, who brought an action before the Conseil d'État, was considered irregular on three grounds: the absence of documents demonstrating that the company was capable of delivering 250,000 masks; derogations from the pattern of delivery of masks in that it had unplanned reservations in terms of deliveries linked to the availability of air transport and customs procedures; the term 'air transport' implying that the masks were not manufactured in Belgium; a price linked to an exchange rate in US dollars while we were in euros. The specifications nevertheless required a reference to have actually supplied 250,000 masks, also required to submit a delivery plan unconditionally or without reservation (i.e. plane and not truck), and to have an estimated price in euros. Mr Freilich, at the Committee on Defence on 2 June, I said that the masks of Tweeds & Cottons were delivered in good time, which is not true of Avrox's. Fines were charged at a rate of 2 % per day delay, with a maximum of 10 %. The masks delivered after 3 June were additionally subject to a penalty of 10%. Mr Freilich, Mr De Vriendt and Mr Verduyckt, there were no specific requirements for packaging. The masks could be individually or packed together, at the choice of the manufacturer, or as commercial practice, as long as the packaging was hermetic. Mr Freilich, hermetic is not airtight, but inaccessible. The pharmacists weren't supposed to pack the masks individually. It's just because they're not individually packaged that a distribution through the pharmacists was chosen. This is the best place to ensure proper distribution and to provide the necessary information for use and maintenance. Over the last few days, the press has been circulating that the masks would contain products that would be harmful to health. The treatment against bacteria is carried out according to a recognised, well documented and perfectly safe health technology and it is widespread. This technology is used in many textiles, but also in many mouth masks, which are available on the international and national market, via supermarkets and pharmacists for both personal and professional use. The suppliers also use techniques that were applied to Avrox's masks. The masks have undergone SILVADUR 930 antimicrobial treatment or silver nitrate treatment, which is a technology recognised by the European Union. This treatment is in no way directed against the corona virus. Here too, we must be very clear and precise. The SPF Santé publique has attested to us that oral masks purchased by Defence meet the requirements of European regulations and can therefore be placed on the Belgian market. It is important to make that clear, while at first we heard other things, as you know. Mr Mahdi, the way in which the three Belgian industrial federations - Creamoda, Febelsafe and the Federation of Belgian Textiles (FBT) - have criticised the press is regrettable. We do not know what techniques Creamoda would use in production. Defense has tried to implement a framework contract through Creamoda. Creamoda's offer was to deliver 181,000 masks by 24 May and by mid-June just under 1.2 million. The masks would mainly be produced in Tunisia and not in Belgium. That is also a very important element that I do not often hear. The proposed cost of Creamoda was 3 euros each instead of 2.5 euros, with an advance of 30%. The delivery of 18 million mouth masks was included in the planning for early August or six weeks later and 9 million more expensive. Prior to the distribution of the mouth masks by the pharmacists, the Defence Department received a favourable opinion from the Public Health Office. I can only refute the rumours which have been spread by the federation by informing the press and the public correctly that there is no danger to public health or to the environment. I wonder why Creamoda is attacking the Defense. Indeed, Belgian firms selling masks have received exactly the same treatment and we do not hear about it. When you come out of the committee, I invite you to go into the big areas and pharmacies, look at the masks put on sale, most of them for more than six euros, and ask Creamoda why we don't hear them on these over-the-counter masks at home. However, it is a good thing that they are on non-prescription because if it is the same process as the one used, namely SILVADUR, the Health FPS has validated it. I think it is also important to recall that. The inspections carried out by the Defence Laboratory and the independent laboratory in Belgium concerned filtration capacity and air permeability, and were carried out in accordance with the methodology foreseen for this purpose. The results of these checks were submitted to the three associations of pharmacists in order to demonstrate that the masks which the pharmacists would distribute are of very good quality. I can tell you that they were more than convinced of the quality of the masks. In conclusion, I think I have been quite clear on the subject. I remain available to answer your questions. The masks are of good quality, and it's not the Defence that says it, it's an independent laboratory that says it. The Defense Laboratory also checked it out. To demonstrate this good quality, we rely on the criteria imposed by the Office of Standardization, independent of Defence. Checks have taken place. In relation to these antibacterial elements, the Health FPS informed us through an official mail that these masks are compliant and can be placed on the market. I repeat, go for a walk in pharmacies and large areas and you will see that many masks have been subjected to this process. I guess we'll have a reaction to that. Mr Dallemagne, you are quite right in saying that the staff is beginning, not to be angry with its minister, but to be weary of the unjust criticisms addressed to it. We have applied a contract with technical standards that is not part of the Defence decision. I recall that as part of the containment exit strategy, on April 15, the RMG referred to the mask as part of the deconfining strategy. I recall that the government gave the mission to the Defence on 27 April to ensure that the Belgians have a fabric mask, in addition to the masks that the other entities, especially the communes (Mr Prévot knows that I am attached to it), make available to the population for the circumstances when wearing the mask is mandatory. We are very critical of Defence and the procurement service, but I would remind you that between the time the market is launched and the time when the deliveries are made, only six weeks have elapsed. I would also point out that masks are available to the entire population by age group, Mr. Prévot, after seven weeks. I thank the pharmacies who legitimately questioned the quality of the product they were going to make available. It was normal for them to ask themselves and it was normal for us to provide answers to these questions. First question: Is the mask compliant? Yes, according to independent companies whose mission is to verify compliance of the mask with technical requirements. Second question: Is the mask dangerous? The pharmacies themselves sell masks which have undergone the same process and have been provided with the attestations of the SPF Santé indicating that this mask can be made available to the Belgian population. We also talked about the packaging. Should it be individual or not? I replied that this was not part of the specifications. This further validates our choice, accepted by the government and finally implemented by pharmacies, to entrust health professionals with the distribution of these masks with appropriate advice, both in terms of use and how to maintain the mask. From that point on, I have also welcomed the Court of Auditors' analysis on a number of occasions. There is no difficulty in this. I would point out that all the documents have been at the disposal of the Court of Auditors since 14 May and that since then many questions have been put to the Defence Procurement Service. As I said, and you also know, many public procurement contracts are the subject of appeal to the Council of State. It's exactly the same process. It is not for me to comment on any opinion or detail that would be expressed later. We are in a rule of law, with control procedures, with administrative procedures. I am glad that all of this exists. I am also pleased, because at least here, and thank you, Mr President, we have time for the answer, we have time to clarify. I have no doubt that as representatives of the Nation, you will also be able to relay the messages that will be communicated to you. If questions remain open, ask them. It finally makes it possible to silence bad rumors, to silence lies. We have heard everything in this case, and I think that every time, at the level of the Defence, with its purchasing staff, and at the level of my firm, we have ensured that we answer you as fully as possible. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u24	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer, as usual. From the outset, I would tell you that you have not inherited an easy file. Perhaps there have sometimes been mischiefs in either place in the communication. One thing is certain: I know - and I still hear it in the answers given - in good faith and voluntarism in this matter. Of course, I wanted to stress that. Thank you for answering all my questions. It will also please my mom. In relation to these packagings by five: I do believe that pharmacies are the right place to give explanations about use, washing and so on. It's very good to have trusted this network of professionals. But it is clear that in relation to the image, it is perhaps a little less secure for a citizen who goes to a pharmacy to have to come back with his mask under his arm rather than individually packed. That was my thought. I see that the minister wants to respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u25	Mr President, thank you for your flexibility. Mr Prévot, you also know that in pharmacy – and this is part of the "less plastic" dynamic – it is obviously possible to put the masks in small paper bags. We don't necessarily go back with his mask. However, the right advice, if the person presents himself without a mask in the official, is to put it directly to him – in this way, we also avoid packaging. It was for the very practical side.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u26	In this case, on the other hand, I do not know if the standard that the mask should be washed before use is met. However, we are not going to argue about this, minister. Simply put, I had also tabled in my redrafted question whether any initiatives would be taken to build up stocks to deal with a possible second wave. You may not have the answer to the last carat right now, but I will certainly come back to you later. I wanted to thank you, I am not looking for the right word, I was there to get answers and I received them today. I see that you wish to speak, but I do not know whether the President will be flexible enough to allow you another incise.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u27	Mr. Secretary, you are really stretching my flexibility. You will ask for the floor and you will have it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u28	Mr President, thank you for your flexibility. It's the last time. That is indeed very important, I have not answered this question and it deserves to pay all possible attention to it. It was considered within the government that the surplus would be set aside. Let's imagine that 12 million masks will be distributed, 6 will remain, and for the time being, these 6 million will not be distributed but put in reserve. This is a very important element that I wanted to bring to Mr Prévot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u29	I had arrived at the end of my speech. Thank you for that clarification, minister, and I wish you a good job on the other issues that you have to deal with.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u30	Minister, the mouth masks are distributed by the pharmacists, but you did not know that at the time of the publication of the tender. I even remember Minister De Backer talking about a distribution with the post and that there were already contacts there. The agreement with the pharmacists was concluded two weeks ago, if I am not mistaken. Of course, it is very convenient that the pharmacists are responsible for the individual distribution of the masks, but no one knew that, not even you, when the call for tenders started. The fact that the cutlery did not say that the masks had to be individually packed also means that one could have just delivered a container with 1,000 or 10,000 masks. Even so, the delivery would have been in conformity. In any case, therefore, it was a carelessness in the preparation, under time pressure, of the necessary information. As for the NBN adjustment, there were three things important for the masks: air filtration, the number of virus particles that could be stopped and the washability. If one of these elements was omitted and made a recommendation, I wonder why the other two criteria, the permeability and filtration, were not adjusted downwards. Someone noticed that disposable masks could be accepted, because they can be washed five times by hand at 10 degrees. It could therefore be said that it was only a recommendation. It is very strange that an important criterion was suddenly changed. It was also the jackpot for Avrox, because at the beginning of the procedure Avrox could not participate in the award. Their product was not in conformity. Suddenly, two or three days before the end, it turns out that a standard was changed, not by you, I know, but by the NBN, on which Avrox could suddenly say that his product was compliant and could participate. We now also know that the masks cost EUR 2.13, including fines. We also know they cost 50 cents, plus 20 cents for transport. Avrox has thus earned about 1.40 euros times 15 million. That's a 20 million-dollar jackpot. That's very good for them. I am very happy, but you also understand that a lot of people are asking how two or three days before the closure the NBN standard was suddenly adjusted downwards, only at that point, so that Avrox could suddenly deliver his masks. So all these questions are still unanswered. I understand, however, that you cannot answer that question. I will therefore ask the people of the NBN and the FPS Economy on whose initiative suddenly the idea has come to change the obligation into a recommendation. It's still very interesting to know how that happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u31	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. It was indeed important that all the clarity be made, since it is a matter of protecting the health of our citizens. We know how badly this epidemic has affected us, and we know the mortality rate in Belgium. You did well to clarify the responsibilities. You could have done it from the start. You always said it was an independent organization. Today, you are quoting the SPF Economy, the Office of Standardization, which you have never done before. In my opinion, it would be interesting to interview them. But you'll still admit that this story is amazing. A Luxembourg-based company was awarded an important contract when it had no expertise and changed its social object at the last minute. It should also be borne in mind that the specifications were also amended at the last minute. All this is extremely strange. You will therefore understand that Parliament can seriously question all these elements. You pinned the fact that I spoke of naivety and you referred to Professor Marc Van Ranst, of whom you say he is a prominent virologist. You are absolutely right on this point. His views are always very interesting. That said, this is not the way to work when it comes to public health. We're not going to seek the advice of any doctor. First, we operate with organizations that are recognized and funded by government to protect our health. I am thinking in particular of Sciensano, who was not questioned. One works by eventually questioning the Higher Council of Health, which has been moved by this new norm and which has expressed all its anger in this regard. It also works by following the WHO recommendations. I understand that Belgium has always argued that the WHO should lead this epidemic. However, it strongly recommends – I recall that it can only recommend since it does not have the power to impose – a 60° wash. It therefore seems clear to me that we should have operated in accordance with this standard, contrary to what has been done. Therefore, I continue to question how this market has been conducted. You did not answer my question about any questions you would have or your department would have asked the SPF Economy. Anyway, you're the one who took responsibility for launching this deal. It would have been appropriate for you to ask yourself about standards, references, criteria, requirements that were ultimately not accepted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u32	I note that the Minister would like to have the floor for the third time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u33	Mr President, it is sometimes important to interact. It is essential that we can clarify things one after the other. Maybe I wasn't clear enough. Mr Dallemagne, you are referring to the social object of Avrox. Indeed, it has been expanded. But it was already sufficiently broad within the framework of the statutes. I invite you to go see them again. It has sometimes been said that they are car vendors or other things. Whatever. I'm a lawyer. When you read a social object, you read the whole thing. It was the classic object of a company doing business. The spectrum is indeed quite broad. You seem to forget that the masks have arrived. They're in pharmacies. I do not often hear about this very concrete element. You're asking me how it happened that Defence didn't worry about changing standards. I don't think it's our role to get involved in a case or a reflection that does not belong to us. It is up to us to apply the standards. The government is giving Defence a mandate to launch a market on the basis of a standard. It's not up to the Defence to ask why they change standards. Each has its own role, each has its own mission. You know what I do. So that is what we have applied. You are telling me that we are not working in the following way when I quote a virologist who might be in favour of such a washing method. We have to mention everyone. Some expressed that it was indeed recommended to wash at 60°. That would probably have been much better. WHO also recommends this. Others said that by washing it properly at 30° with detergent, it was enough compared to the virus. We have strictly applied the standards. That's why I may be responding a little more vividly. You are now telling us that we should have been concerned about the reasons why the SPF Economy, via the Standards Bureau, had changed the standard. On the contrary, we would have done something wrong. We would have gone outside the scope of the mission we had been given. I repeat: we will see the outcome of the Court of Auditors' analysis. It is the rule of law. We will also see how the Council of State will analyse the case. It's normal, too. This is a matter for the administrative side. In essence, I find that we managed to keep the line that was ours: working in an emergency. I repeat that the NSC's exit strategy, with the recommended or mandatory mask worn, is only dated April 17. The RMG recommendation is dated 15 April. I think the Defence did exactly what they asked him to do. We have not been beyond. In that case, we should have talked about interference.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u34	The formula of a topical debate allows for some flexibility, but not too much. Since the Minister has replied to a number of Mr Dallemagne's statements, I do think that a Member of Parliament still has the right to replicate. You will have the floor for a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u35	Mr President, thank you, we are still in Parliament. First of all, with regard to the modification of the social object, I simply read the director's comments. It has changed its social purpose in order to respond to the invitation to tender. I'm sorry, we don't see why he would have changed it if his social object had been as transparent and impeccable as you say. On the other hand, on asking questions, I find that asking a question is never a fault. Of course, you were not asked to change the standard, but this was a central part of the market. I think the opposite is the problem. It is not to be sufficiently curious about a central element, not to wonder, not to say: "You are sure, you have asked the necessary questions to the experts competent in the field?" I personally think that would have been a good policy, that would have been wise, and we would eventually have avoided this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. You have again answered many questions and also many criticisms. I'll give you a brief summary, if I may. I hear here again by a number of people saying that Avrox had no experience in delivering masks. So that's wrong. Avrox had previously ordered 2.5 million masks. So that's one of the things that just gets thrown around. Are the masks consistent or not? They're in line. There's been a lot of bullshit about the silver ion layer, which would be unsafe. But that layer is also used in other masks. The washing requirement that has changed from an obligation to a recommendation, that is the responsibility of the FPS Economy. But I hear virologists saying that the 30 degrees is not a problem. The packaging is not individual. That's right, but that wasn't a condition in the cutlery either. That's very clear. You said Creamoda was unable to deliver. That is, of course, about the date, but also about the quantity. Our impression is that the people are being frightened by some things which, over and over again, turn out to be wrong. A great deal of criticism has been voiced, especially by the N-VA, but we have seen in recent weeks that many of these criticisms have been refuted. The efforts of the Defense Department are always shown in a bad light. It's time for that witch hunt to be reduced to normal proportions. That's asking questions. That is what our group has done. We are asking critical questions, because that is what is needed. If there are any questions, we ask them too. But if you get answers at some point, you must also verify those answers and also be able to assum them. This week-long witch hunt, perhaps also under the influence of lobbying, may well stop. Let us do our normal, critical, parliamentary work and ask questions, without spreading accusations in the wild. Colleagues, people think this file is a fiasco. The anti-politics has once again taken on a very high flight here. While one also has to look at the facts. Effective: 18 million masks have been delivered in six weeks. In a market that is very tense, which is very difficult. Those masks are here. There are still questions that are open, and we will continue to ask them, but this is becoming a witch hunt, and the responsibility of the N-VA in it is very great. But, Minister, I would also like to tell you that I find the communication of Defence and of your cabinet really inadequate. After all, you tell us that there is no problem and that we are free to ask our questions. No, Minister, if there are accusations, they will not be made here first. They'll be in the press first. We note that there is no proactive explanation from you and that sometimes, but not always, there is a response to the accusations that have been made in the press. Each time this happens, it also happens with a few days' delay. You're Secretary of Defense, but you're losing the propaganda war in the press, and it's been going on for weeks. I take the floor emotionally, because I notice in my environment and on social media how anti-politics is fed. People think this is a fiasco, that it's all the government's fault, who hasn't made any of it. That image has been fired by the N-VA for weeks. Anti-politics in our society, I regret that. I really ask that you and the Defense Department defend themselves better against that, that the file be cleared out, also proactively, and that it be defended as it should be.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u37	Mr Francken, you are asking for the floor, but after the various speakers have spoken, each group will have the floor. So you will still have the opportunity to answer. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u38	Minister, thank you for the accuracy and completeness of your responses. I would also like to point out that you have indeed inherited a file that many others before you have failed to complete. Today, you have achieved this, and we can only commend the work of the Defence, which has done exceptional work in accordance with the conditions and deadlines set for it. You have finally specified once again the responsibilities of each, which allows me to see more clearly and to obtain more precise answers to some of my questions. I will not fail to question the officials you mentioned, for a whole series of obvious reasons. In the end, I remain quite concerned about the progress of the market and I believe that the Court of Auditors could also bring its share of clarifications. Some questions have not yet had a clear answer, and I hope that we will be able to obtain these answers in a timely manner. Finally, I would like to join my colleague De Vriendt's conclusions on communication. I do believe that this case suffers from a proactive lack of communication on the part of your firm, but also of the Defence itself. This dossier tarnishes the image of Defence and the excellent work it can do - and we have already stressed in this committee. In my view, the Defence should communicate better and more, not only on this issue, but also on all the other files on which it is working. Indeed, a more proactive communication could shed light on the work of the Defence, which is unfortunately unknown or even unknown to citizens. In a country such as ours, it is important to know what Defence is doing on a daily basis, particularly with regard to aid to the Nation, and this issue fits perfectly in this context in view of the crisis we are going through. Minister, I would like to thank you for all the answers you have given us. As you pointed out, my role is to question you, and I will certainly do so if certain questions persist, so that we can shed full light on the continuity and follow-up of this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u39	Mr Minister, I see that you wish to speak. I propose that the various questioners be given the floor first. There may be comments to which you would like to add a word.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Like Mr De Vriendt, I think this is the time for a brief summary. We have talked about this matter a number of times. In the past, I have already told you that, as far as I am concerned, the procedure has gone far too quickly. The key moment in that procedure has been to change the standard. You referred to that today. Well, let's be clear: in Belgium, there was no standard for this product until 24 April 2020. After a few weeks of work by the sector itself, together with the Belgian standard company, a standard was created for the first time in this country. I would like to say that this has apparently been a very rapid procedure. You will then be ordered to make that purchase and, during that less than a week's work, the standard will suddenly be changed again, without involving the textile industry, in a unilateral way. When I first questioned you about this, I pointed out to you how strange it was that they did this. Let me put it this way: this makes it very difficult to complete such a procedure properly. You just said you're a lawyer, not a scientist. That's right, but you're not an official either. You're the minister. Perhaps that was the time to notice that you had to purchase a product and order EUR 60 million for the benefit of all citizens, while you were faced with a change in the standard. Apparently, they didn't know exactly what the ideal product you had to buy. I wonder if the circumstances under which that purchase took place were not too difficult at the time. It's clear to me that we weren't ready. All the discussions that are taking place today are largely based on the norm. The debate on washing is a recommendation contained in it, but is it correct or not? The new standard on biocidal products states that it is not recommended to use them, but it is not prohibited either. In any case, there are discussions and this is not good for the image of the product and for the anti-politics it feeds. Again, were the circumstances okay to make this order? I did not ask you for nothing today what you will do with the unpicked masks, because I fear that all these discussions could leave a lot of them. That's a pity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. It is a good thing that we are getting as much clarity about this as possible, because in recent weeks many people have been presented as virologists or investigative journalists of the gossip press. I have seen that on many parties and on social media people have created much more uncertainty than was necessary. It is up to the Members of this House and therefore to me to ask the necessary critical questions. It is up to us to bite and see to what extent the Minister can stand. On the other hand, it is up to the Minister to communicate clearly and occasionally to bite back to the critics, especially if their criticism is unfounded. I hear some people would have preferred us to opt for a Belgian company, which apparently produces mouth masks in Tunisia. I wonder how Belgian these products are. At the same time, the cost would be much higher than that of the product we have chosen. Do the colleagues who were strongly in favour of the Belgian company's choice a few weeks ago still support that today? I think that in recent months, the Department of Defense has communicated far better than in the past few years. So it's heading in the right direction, but also in that area, the DOD can make a difference. I believe that this opinion is shared by the Defense Department itself. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now play the good Christian Democrat and give a little bit of left and right. We have to be careful today about the terms we use, because I find it difficult when colleagues talk about propaganda machines in which the Minister and Defence should participate. After all, it is not up to the Minister to take part in a propaganda war; it is up to him to ensure clear and objective communication. Mr De Vriendt, it is also not necessary to refer eight times in one speech to a particular party, while we know that there are several parties that have occasionally crossed the line, one more than the other. Furthermore, I do not think it is the right way of communicating when the other colleague in the game is talking about a jackpot when it is about a company that only does what companies have to do, namely playing in a competitive market and being compensated for it. Then talking about a jackpot, by a member of a party who occasionally is reasonably liberal, seems strange to me. I expected that from a party like the PTB, not other parties. Colleagues, I hope that we can all get out of this together, by letting Defence out of this much better. I hope that we can put the obsessions and fetishes behind us and hopefully talk about something else in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u42	Mr President, good colleagues from CD&V and Green-Ecolo, I hear big words falling, such as anti-politics and propaganda wars. I feel absolutely uncomfortable. If you have read my questions, and I suspect that this has happened, because I see that I will have another question on the agenda which will be followed diligently by your parties, you have to admit that my question was not a little bit but very objective. It is difficult for you to blame N-VA's good colleagues for asking their questions. That is our job as a Member of Parliament. Communication can be discussed, but I find it rather questionable to blame them for asking questions. Honestly, I find the mating dance in the context of a possible form of government appealing and even beautiful. Minister, I would like to thank you for your answers. You have made me feel relieved and pleased by confirming that there is no danger to public health and, secondly, to the environment. If I have understood correctly, all the results of the investigations applied to the masks are available to anyone, to the public, but also to competitors, who have made a mistake in communicating that there was a danger to public health. Mr. Secretary, if you can confirm that later, you'll make me a lucky man today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u43	Minister, thank you for your full answers. I understand that you would not answer about the changes to the NBN standards and the question is already sent to the SPF Economy. I will therefore ask this question to the minister concerned. I mean, I'm joining Mr. De Vriendt and Mrs. Song to tell you that the Defense has worked very well. The problem does not come from the work of the Defence, but from the procrastination that took place in the government. The decision was far too slow. We moved from minister to minister. You're not responsible. I think it is the work of the downstream government that needs to be pointed at. For my part, I was happy to hear the details of your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u44	All the questioners have been given the floor. I have three other colleagues who would like to speak. I propose that we first leave the Minister to speak for a number of additional answers which he still wishes to give and that I give the floor to Mrs Moscufo and Mr Francken and Mr Flahaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u45	Thank you for your different lines. I wish to react to the fact that the Defence – or myself – would have miscommunicated. For me, it is very important to communicate with Parliament. I do it and it's normal, I wanted to call it back. In an anti-political climate that develops easily, we must explain how things are going and the role of each other. We always have the impression that everything is nebulous, but there are oversight bodies, and I am delighted that they exist. They say we've been late every time. What has been communicated? It was reported that Defence had received a mission: to launch a market for the order of fabric masks. It was reported that the masks would arrive on such a date. It was reported that some of them would arrive late. The date of availability was communicated at a major press conference in Puisie, where we gave details of everything that had been done under this procedure. It was reported that these masks would be available in pharmacies. You cannot blame us for not anticipating lies that have been distilled in the press by one or the other – I will not mention a name. We had to intervene each time to defend ourselves and justify ourselves. We were told that one of the shareholders was financing terrorism. We will not communicate in advance by saying that one of the shareholders does not finance terrorism, but when we read this, we must obviously react! We were attacked about the fact that society was tax evasion. It was not said at the outset that Avrox was in conformity with Luxembourg law and met Luxembourg and European requirements. It was possible to give the impression of arriving too late each time, but the Defence communication was strictly factual. We have given all our deadlines and when we have had problems with deadlines, we have assumed them. We said that the terms of reference provided for penalties and penalties for delay. We have played the map of transparency but not over-communicating either. I hear your comments and observations. Everyone can get better. I have heard your advice and it will be part of a reflection. I wanted to give you the elements we've been confronted with. I give you the last one – which is perhaps emblematic: as the market was launched, one of the associates appeared in a newspaper, with his sunglasses, in front of a yacht. A story was then built and it was possible to give the impression that we were reacting late. My personal nature is to ensure that the facts are put forward. I did not over-communicate because it seemed to me that the essentials had been said in determining the market, its continuation and its outcome. We haven't been beyond that. However, I hear your remarks and they will have to be integrated into certain areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u46	Mr. President, I apologize. A setback prevented me from participating in the commission from the beginning. I was still able to follow the debate a little bit. In this case of masks, I have not yet had the opportunity to intervene, but at this stage, this matter no longer makes a laugh at all. Minister, you're talking about communication, but I have the impression that every time there was a particular situation on the table, you had the room to put on the hole. I'll explain later. We are faced with a situation where for months we have been explaining to the population that we must wash the masks at 60°C and now we are talking about a change, an obligation that has become a recommendation. We can't find ourselves there anymore. However, I would like to point out here that in the world of work, when a worker fails to comply with the contract for which he was hired and the fault that he commits has repercussions on the collective, in general, he is fired immediately. As a minister, this is something that needs to be integrated. The interests of collective health are represented. I will not be as conciliatory as some of my colleagues with regard to your responsibility and personal responsibility as a minister. If there's one point I'm joining you on, it's obviously not the Defence's fault. We have seen that it was at the time when this was put in the hands of the Defence that the case moved a little faster. That is the responsibility of the leaders we are talking about here. When we moved from the obligation to the recommendation, unless I'm mistaken, this point was not put on the table here. It has not been explained to us why this obligation has become a recommendation. Even though this aspect had become a recommendation, I find that as a government, it was a duty to produce masks as best as possible regardless of the recommendation. We also need to set an example. I don't know if we realize what we're dealing with here. We are facing a pandemic that has consequences. The collective responsibility of the organization to limit this virus results in deaths. Having turned this obligation into a recommendation – I am not a virologist – will have an impact on the number of victims of this crisis. Of course, we cannot accept it. You say that when you moved from an obligation to a recommendation, it made sense that you didn't worry because you preferred urgency. Minister, excuse me, but in terms of urgency, you have also arrived like the Carabiniers of Offenbach. What happened? At some point, we needed masks. Still yesterday, I had a meeting with my little neighborhood committee that created itself to make fabric masks. What this health crisis has brought is that people organize themselves and take charge of their fate. That's how my neighborhood decided to start producing new masks again because if, unfortunately, a second wave happened, we couldn't trust you. We hope that all the light will be shed on what happened. I also hear you say that some of the masks that have not been distributed will be stored in a strategic reserve. I would ask you to be careful that your colleague does not decide to burn them a second time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u47	Mr President, I would just like to point out that three topical debates are being held in the Finance and Budget Committee at an hour and a half with Minister De Croo on tax fraud, tax havens and Brussels Airlines and the airport. That's just an example. Minister, I am not particularly involved in the oral mask debate, but my group is attacked by the Green Group. Mr De Vriendt, you are increasingly obsessed with our party and myself. I find that remarkable. You can't talk about anything else, but well, that's on you. I understand there will be an investigation from the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has been given this mandate on the basis of a motion approved in plenary, if I am not mistaken. I'm not entirely on the record, but that's what I understood. I therefore assume that we will also discuss the results of this study in committee and then we will have more clarification on who is right in the matter. In any case, few countries have ordered mouth masks for all their inhabitants and distributed them as well. I do not think there is another European country that does that. We did make that choice. Parliament's task is, of course, to monitor this thoroughly, and the Committee on Army Purchases is just for that purpose. We have always shown great understanding for the fact that the DOD was given this task even on its plate. That is always the case with the Defense Department; the department is exactly the end of the lifeline. If there are attacks, there's always Defense to put soldiers out on the street to guard all kinds of points, because the police couldn't do that back then. They still do, by the way, so many years later. There's always Defense to get the chestnuts out of the fire, but giving money to Defense is another matter. We see this every year in the budget, with the same parties. So the DOD got that job on her plate, even though she was once a party asking for it. That is why our group has never personally attacked Defence. I've been watching, and I don't think that's what happened. There has always been substantive criticism and it is the responsibility of the government to defend itself. In my view, it has already happened correctly. I have not seen adhominem attacks on the Minister by my group. I am trying to do politics correctly, and I would have said to Mr Freilich that this is not acceptable. My colleague apologized for having to leave. That is a pity, because it is always better for the person who manages the file to answer if there are attacks. In conclusion, we await the investigation and continue our parliamentary work. We also know that the DOD didn't ask for that file and ended up getting it on her plate. I hope, Minister, that the distribution of masks in Belgium will be smooth. I have no evidence to the contrary. It is reported that in Flemish Brabant monolingual French instructions have been given. In Londerzeel the pharmacists would simply not give the manual, because it is only written in French; for my commune of Lubbeek I still have to check it. I have no doubt that you are less sensitive to this, but certainly in Flemish Brabant that sensitivity is very high. Flemish Brabant is a monolingual Dutch province. We do not need to debate this now, but the pressure is high and language legislation must be respected. Maybe we can figure out how that happened after all. Maybe it only happened to a few pharmacists, I don't know. Minister, perhaps you could let me know or perhaps we could talk about this in the corridors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u48	Mr President, first of all, I would like to reply to Mr Franken: in Walloon Brabant masks have arrived from China, with Chinese text with Arabic numerals. It was hard to understand. I can understand your concern, Mr. Franken. I thought we were going to discuss something else today. We have already spent a large number of hours on this issue of masks. I'm sorry. We did indeed receive information on the case during the meetings and also during the meeting of the Committee on Military Procurement and Operational Monitoring. Audits are under way at the level of the administrations and the Court of Auditors. Appeals were brought to the Council of State. Other actors also intervened. My feeling is that we, as parliamentarians, are not meant to be investigating judges or prosecutors. We need to let things go where they need to go, and then look at the information and what will happen. With regard to the communication that has been made, my feeling is that whatever the minister says today, he will always be criticized. There will always be someone, either for economic interests, or for the interests of a sector, or for that or that reason, who will find a way to say, in the Defence or in the presentation of the communication, that it is not right, that it has failed. Somewhere, one may wonder: who does it benefit from creating chaos or giving the impression that things have not been managed? It is true that this has been handled in a chaotic manner. Defense arrived at the last moment. But as the minister said, the masks are there, and today we are concerned about how they are distributed, their packaging at the level of pharmacists. On the overall communication of Defence action, every week we receive an update of all Defence's efforts in the follow-up to the VOCID-19. No one makes this public, but it could be public. No one's interested, because there's a rule that when it works well, you don't talk about it. It is when it works badly that the media relay and talk about it at length. Finally, I would like to say that when you want to beat your dog, you always find a stick. Criticism is easy, but art is difficult. We have to do some useful work for the community and we must not waste too much time. The debate will come in due course. I hope, Mr President, that in future meetings we will discuss things other than masks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u49	If we're all gonna regret that it's gonna take a long time, it's gonna take a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u50	Mr President, I will be brief. I would like to recall that the Defence mission in this case was to enter into a public contract to order masks intended for the public. This mission has been carried out: the masks have arrived and their distribution has begun. Let us not forget that this is in support of local initiatives. Indeed, all the municipalities have already distributed masks to their inhabitants. Therefore, the most important thing is that every citizen has at least one. And if he wears it, it'll be even better!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u51	I note Mr De Vriendt's attitude to ask for the floor again. I grant him that with a slight reluctance, but only because he was called by others by name. Mr De Vriendt, I would ask you not to mention anyone by name anymore. Otherwise, they will use it again to ask for the floor again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u52	Mr President, I cannot promise anything, but this is a reply to what the Minister said. The last word is for Parliament, and that is an important principle. I'm not obsessed with N-VA at all. We have just adopted a resolution from N-VA in the Foreign Affairs Committee and I also work well with N-VA in my home town. However, I do have an obsession with doing the right thing about politics. I often think of the proverb "The best pilots are on shore." Defense is trying to round up an order in difficult circumstances, but is constantly under fire. My great fear is that people will not pick up the masks enough in the pharmacies. That will then be the responsibility of those who have undermined the credibility of this order and who have cast doubt on the safety of the masks. Then, of course, one should not be surprised that everything is going to go to hell. The crusade that N-VA has waged against the Defense Department in this file is hallucinating. It has been claimed that Avrox is a ghost company, which is not the case at all, and that Avrox has no experience in producing mouth masks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u53	Mr De Vriendt, you have made that point in the meantime. Can you finish?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u54	I'm rounding up. It is your party, Mr President, but I would like to make my point. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u55	You say that we spend a great deal of time on this. Mr Francken has just said that we spend less time in other committees on more important dossiers. I'll ask myself who knocked up the whole thing. Ghost firm: not correct, not experience: not correct, according to Mr Freilich, the masks were unsafe: not correct, because the standards were respected. Do we have any questions? Yes. Have we supported the request for the Court of Auditors to investigate this case? Yes. Will we ask any further questions in this committee? Yeah, but not just here. We will also ask questions about the FPS Economy. So we will continue to ask critical questions, but we will do so without shooting blanks for weeks and throwing loose accusations around, because that doesn't deserve to be done and that doesn't deserve to be done by our people either. We might need the masks. Mr Mahdi said that a moment ago. We certainly don't have too many in our country. This is an order that was completed in less than seven weeks and that is an achievement that we can be proud of. The handling of this file is not correct and there has been a witch hunt. It is above all against us protesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the debate be closed. Mr De Vriendt, I would like to point out that I am only watching over the orderly conduct of the debate. I don't accept any other insinuation, because it doesn't add up. I cannot agree with the claim that I, as chairman, want to bang things because they do not fit in with the N-VA booth. I want to make that very clear. Moreover, I can only observe, since there has been talk of knocking on the door, that out of the fourteen questions on the masks that have been tabled there are seven of your Ecolo Green Group, which raises the question of who exactly wants to knock on certain points or make points. I'll give it to you. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we conclude this topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u57	Mr Pivin is not present, so his question No. 55006061C expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u58	Minister, I was allowed to read in the newspaper last week that our Dutch colleagues, with whom we occasionally work well, are setting up a department to deal with drone threats, which are increasingly emerging. Of course, the threats that Defense has to deal with will change with technology. Many countries have invested heavily in drones in recent years. There have also been drone attacks in Russia, on military bases in Syria and on oil installations in Saudi Arabia. Those attacks are not in themselves a new one, but a fairly recent one. They've happened a few times. In addition to a number of state actors, a number of non-state actors are increasingly focusing on drones as a means of deployment and violence. The Netherlands is therefore currently in the process of setting up a department. It's not quite clear to me where they're going with that department. It is mainly thinking about how the Netherlands should deal with the matter. Mr. Secretary, how do you look at potential drone threats yourself? What's your vision on that? Are we considering working with the Netherlands? In my opinion, we should not look for our own department. Here too, we must seek cooperation with our Dutch colleagues. Mr. Secretary, do you have any interest in this cooperation? Have you discussed this with your colleague from the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u59	Mr Mahdi, the drone threat in Belgium is part of the overall threat assessment. To this end, the ADIV works closely with the VSSE and the coordination body for the threat analysis OCAD, in order to monitor that threat in Belgium. The threat to us can take many forms. For example, there is a risk of breach of public security privacy. However, there is also a real risk to flight safety if aircraft are in an approach route. To date, our country has not known any threat from the malicious use or acts of terrorism by unmanned harnesses. Of course, we remain very attentive to this. Enforcement on Belgian territory falls within police jurisdiction. Defence can provide support in this case when required. In addition, all units of Defense should protect an installation from the threat of unmanned aircraft, including the development of a counter unmanned aircraft system or CUAS. For this purpose, three axes will be used. C-UAS capacity to protect static formations and fixed installations, both at home and abroad, C-UAS capacity to protect mobile land formation and increase the self-protection capacity of individuals based on their organic armaments through the use of adapted procedures and specific training. Currently, there is no C-UAS system providing a closing solution to the full spectrum of drone threats under all circumstances. The ideal solution is therefore a mix of available systems in different sub-domains. The development of a C-UAS capacity will fit into a defence-wide material solution in this domain. In parallel with the Dutch intentions, the Belgian Defence Department first wants to obtain a clearer picture of the required material, personnel and procedures through conceptual development and experimentation, in order to build up an effective operational capacity. Also evaluating whether a separate detachment C-UAS is required or whether an additional assignment can be given to an existing detachment is part of this. Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg together form part of a working group in the fight against unmanned aircraft. We have been exchanging information there for three years on the issue of adequate protection against drones. In the meantime, cooperation has evolved from a mere sharing of knowledge to the joint organisation and implementation of control in order to optimise existing capacity. In addition to existing partnerships, both countries continue to develop further opportunities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is good to hear that there has been cooperation at Benelux level for some time. There may not be a potential threat from terrorists at the moment, but it cannot be ruled out that it will change rapidly. I think we should play the ball briefly and respond as quickly as possible to the technological evolution that everyone achieves, including non-state actors and people who do not mean well. In view of the further modernisation of defence, it is also important that we evaluate as soon as possible on the basis of projects in which direction we should proceed. It is a fact that we can work harder on this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u61	Minister, due to the COVID-19 crisis, we lost a year. Defense has been struggling to make a good recruitment process for a long time. Since we have lost a year, perhaps there are people who have just reached the age limit and have not taken part in the tests this year, by COOVID-19 and not because of a lack of ambition. Mr Minister, are you prepared to raise the maximum age exceptionally next year, for one year, just before those who have reached the age limit this year and have not participated? Is the impact of COVID-19 on recruitment measured? Are there far fewer people interested than in previous years? What is the response to this? How many recruitments were foreseen in 2020, per quarter? What are the current expectations for 2020, per quarter, taking into account unforeseen circumstances?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u62	Mr President, I suggest that you follow up on my two questions on recruitment. Minister, the procedure for recruiting reserve officers and non-commissioned officers states that reserve officers and non-commissioned officers cannot have reached the age of 50 on December 31 of the year of incorporation. For soldiers, the age limit is 35 years. The VOCID-19 crisis has suspended the procedures for one year. However, some candidates will no longer be subject to incorporation at that time. Defence has a significant labour need and it would be regrettable to dispense with some applications. Are you aware of this problem? Is an exception or extension possible for all age limits in the recruitment procedures for reserve members? Defence is also looking for 600 non-commissioned officers and 220 officers to fill anticipated retirements in the coming years. Following the health crisis of VOCID-19, registrations had been suspended on 13 March. They were able to resume on 11 May but only by telephone. The applicants had to form a free Defence number. Some registrations were stopped on 18 May and others were extended until 2 June. How many people have applied for vacant jobs? How many people applied between May 11 and June 2, the closing date? Are there any candidates for all vacant positions? If not, what are the vacancies for which there have been no registrations? For vacancies for which there would be no candidates, would a new registration period be organized? Finally, I read that it would not be possible to register, at the time of the resumption of registration, for the jobs of sailor soldiers. Why isn't that possible? Is this still the case, and if so, will a new period be opened, in order to allow candidates to apply for these jobs?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u63	Mr President, Minister, my questions are almost the same as those of my colleagues. In view of the crisis we are going through, I would like to know how you intend to implement the recruitment plan for the years to come. Are any adjustments, such as those set out in particular by my colleagues, regarding the age of our future recruits envisaged? I'll stop there. It's pointless to repeat.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are initiatives under way in the form of draft royal decrees, inter alia, to apply special measures to recruitment and thus to address the specific circumstances caused by COOVID-19. These measures are applicable to the recruitment of both the active framework and the reserve framework. One of these measures is to increase the one-year age limit for candidates who have registered for the 2021 recruitment year, but also for those who have registered for one or more vacancies for the 2020 recruitment year. Defence is studying all possibilities to maximise the recruitment targets for 2020, with 220 vacancies available for the candidate officers, 600 vacancies for the candidate officers, and 1,215 vacancies for the candidate-soldier sailor. At present, priority is given to the implementation of the officers of the executives, officers and petty officers. Since 11 May 2020, additional registrations for those functions are again possible. The selection activities were also restarted on that day. Online selection is not currently in the hands of the Defense Department. For the first quarter, January, February, March, the introductions of the candidates-soldier-sailor took place as planned. 237 applications for 284 open vacancies were made. The remaining introductions in the three other quarters, 246 vacancies in the second quarter, 332 in the third quarter and 353 in the fourth quarter, have been suspended until further notice. To date, 1,111 persons have applied for vacant officer positions, 2,527 for non-commissioned officer positions, and 1,690 for soldier or sailor positions. Between May 11, 2020 and June 2, 2020, 543 persons applied for officer vacancies and 1,394 for non-commissioned officers. Registrations were closed at midnight on 2 June 2020. There are currently no candidates for each vacant position. To date, for Francophones, there are no registrations for the following vacant positions: first and second line dental officer candidate, non-commissioned electrician candidate, medical equipment electrician, volunteer assistant technician and electromechanic candidate for vehicles and communication and information systems, system electromechanic technician. For Dutch speakers, there is no registration for the following vacant positions: candidate officer for the Higher School of Navigation, dentist, officers bridge to the First Navy and second medical line: non-commissioned electrician candidate for medical equipment, non-commissioned officer candidate level B of the Technical Service and volunteer candidate welder assistant. It is no longer envisaged to plan a new registration period for vacant posts for which no registration has taken place. The priorities of the remaining selection capacity will focus on other selections, such as the selection of sailors, reserve and in-house recruitment. It is currently not possible to register for the vacant positions of a seaman soldier. The selection capacity was suspended for almost two months. These two months allowed the selection to reorganize and implement the security measures related to VOCID-19. During these months, numerous theoretical studies were conducted to minimize the impact of VOCID-19 on Defence recruitment. It was decided to recruit the executive as a priority, namely officers and non-commissioned officers. It is planned to reopen a period to incorporate sailor soldiers, but it is still under consideration with the various actors involved in the Defence. Defence shall examine all possibilities to maximise training in autumn depending on the evolution of the COOVID-19 crisis and taking into account available selection and training capacities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u66	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is very good to consider raising the age limits by one year. It is important for Defence to recruit both reserve and military personnel - whether they are officers or not. Although not all positions have found candidates, it is pleased to see that Defence continues to attract many applicants. That's a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u67	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u68	Minister, in recent weeks there have been reports in the media that people think they can take a walk in military domains. However, it is not a recent phenomenon. People do not always understand very well what a military domain is or may not always be able to interpret road signs properly. Then one ends up near a shooting range or near explosives. That is not desirable for anyone. This year we will also have to or may spend as much as possible the holiday in our own country. A number of people will therefore perhaps look even more for nature reserve and think that they can use a military domain as a hiking area. How many people have been fined for entering a military domain in the past year? What role can the federal police and the military police play in enforcing these rules, especially if we know that a number of military domains lie in different police zones? Then one is led from one police zone to another. In some areas, citizens are allowed to walk around. In what way is a distinction made between areas where people are allowed to walk and where they are not allowed to walk? This must be clear to people who want to take a walk where they can. What sensitising measures can be taken to better inform citizens? Who bears what responsibility if there is an accident involving civilians in the military domain? Hopefully we shouldn't take this into account, but actually we should. What is the strategy to avoid this in the future? What would be the cost of better protection of military domains with reinforced fences in certain zones? This should not be done over the entire military domain, which would be a bit exaggerated, but only in areas where it is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u69	I agree with the previous questioner.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u70	The military police are not authorized to issue fines or to issue minutes for unauthorised entry into military territory. Defence therefore has no idea of the number of effective fines issued. In case of detection, local police will be notified and asked to come to the scene. A report is made by the military police and in the absence of the police information is transmitted to the relevant prosecutor of the King. In 2019, 22 reports were prepared for unauthorised entry into military territory. Defence shall not normally be informed of the information, unless it is involved as a civil party, in criminal proceedings. In 2019 no criminal proceedings were conducted. The federal police are generally not involved in the enforcement of intruders of the military domains. It is the local police that plays an important role here, primarily by coming to the scene, if the intruders are held up, and then by making a report of the facts and delivering to the court for further criminal prosecution. The enforcement of access rules is one of the tasks of the MP. The MP can try to sensitise and inform, by pointing out the ban on access by intruders from military areas. A military domain is indicated by a sign C3 indicating "military domain, prohibited access." The access roads to a military domain are lined with barriers and padlocks, but this is not close for cyclists and hikers. In addition, the shooting areas are marked with the same sign, containing a skull or "danger" and sometimes a tension. Citizens with a transit permit, e.g. shepherds and hunters, get written permission with a plan where the different boundaries of the domain run correctly. Walks are only possible on fixed and marked hiking trails and at fixed times. There is consultation with mayors or police chiefs of the surrounding municipalities and there are clear guidelines on the respective websites of the municipalities and tourist services. On all access roads there are signs with a clear plan of the domain, on which all borders and prohibited zones are clearly marked. In addition, the penal law is also mentioned and made clear that unauthorised entry is an offence which can be punishable by a fine. Entering a military domain is forbidden and someone who does so nevertheless exposes himself to the risks involved, given the activities carried out on the military domain. Each accident shall be examined separately. Legal liability can only be determined after a thorough analysis. In order to avoid these incidents in the future, Defense is studying a number of slopes, such as the drafting of uniform guidelines for all military domains, better consultation between the quarter commanders and the mayors and/or chiefs of the local police, awareness campaigns via local or social media, rebooting the permanence. It is also under investigation whether more guards can be deployed during the summer months on the military domain of Aarschot. Defence continues to invest in the maintenance of the existing quarter fences and in the marking of the training areas and areas. Defence therefore does not plan any changes to its policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u71	I hope, by the way, that on 1 July, when we visit Kleine-Brogel, we do not have to climb the wire.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u72	Mr President, when we are in Kleine-Brogel, we will do what we have to do. Mr Minister, my first question was not a bad one, but a conscious one, because I already knew the answer. I asked how many people were fined, but since the military police can't fine, it's hard to map. Sanction is very difficult, because it is usually too late to act before the police are called upon to do so. That is why I think it is important to put out a clear plan. Unfortunately, road signs and barriers aren't helping. More than that, signs with skulls become on them, that's how I've been informed, even brought to unpack at home, so those signs don't help either. Talking to local police is always good, but we can't get there with consultation. So I started to get a little nervous and disappointed. I was glad to hear that work will be done, if I interpret that correctly, of a stronger plan. Effectively uniform directives are needed. The current directives can vary from one domain to another, so it is not always clear to the public where to go or where to go. Sensitisation campaigns can also help, so they are not wrong in themselves. However, it is particularly important to consider to what extent the permanence of watch stations can be restarted, so that passing people can possibly be monitored. Such monitoring may, in the first instance, avoid accidents. Perhaps more camera material should also be considered to bring this into view. It would be a good thing if the waiting staff could get back to work and I am glad to hear that. I hope that the slope becomes concrete, because it is necessary. For the time being, no accidents have happened, except that someone might have been driving a quad wrong, but it could get a lot worse. That is why we must accept our responsibility. We must not ignore the warning signal we have received from the newspapers. It is now very important to act before any real accidents happen. Because we can't come up with the excuse that we didn't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u73	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I am satisfied with your answer and I agree with the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u74	Minister, there was a shooting in Brussels on 29 May, apparently involving a soldier. Firstly, can you say a little more about the right circumstances in so far as they can be communicated? Was there an investigation? Have you finished the investigation yet? Secondly, is there any way in which we can learn lessons about the use of weapons by military forces in or outside the barracks?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u75	Mr Minister, I would like to join the questions, but I will add one that has not been addressed: has psychosocial assistance been provided to the colleagues present?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u76	As a result of the shootings, a judicial investigation has been launched, which is still ongoing. Therefore, no information can be disclosed and it is premature to give a ruling on the nature of the facts. As always in the event of an incident or accident within the Defence, psychosocial assistance was provided to colleagues who showed signs of trauma or expressed a need for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u77	Minister, I understand that no further information can be provided if the investigation has not yet been completed. However, I am pleased that social assistance is being offered and I will return to the dossier if more data are available.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u78	Minister, like my colleague, I will come back to ask you as soon as we can be better informed about the circumstances of the accident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u79	Mr Minister, the epidemic shows that we need to establish European strategic sovereignty in the key areas of our collective security, not only in health, but also in defence. I've always hammered it. This is what the current pandemic has brutally confirmed. Two new bad blows have just been brought to the purchase by Belgium of F-35 Americans: President Trump recently declared, in an interview with Fox Business Network, that the international supply chain of Lockheed Martin's aircraft posed security problems in the United States and he threatened to repatriate the elements manufactured abroad. If that were to be the case, the meagre hope of industrial spillovers for Belgium - I would remind you that we had talked about 3.5 billion euros, of which we have not yet seen any signed contract - would fly away permanently. In addition, on May 12, the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) stated that Lockheed Martin's development program for the new F-35 Block 4 standard had to be extended due to significant delays. This is not the first time this programme has been delayed, but with this further delay, now estimated at two years, the commissioning of these aircraft will not be effective until 2026. I recall that we are supposed to receive the first F-35 in 2023. This delay, according to my information, also blows prices. The two-year extension to deliver the new standard increases the development cost to $12.1 billion, with an additional $3.4 billion planned to acquire and insert capacity into the future F-35. In addition, the F-35s in service, a total of 500 devices, do not meet the program's reliability and maintenance objectives, according to the information I receive. Although Lockheed Martin modifies manufacturing processes to try to solve problems and improve efficiency, much remains to be done. My question is a little brutal, but isn't it time to give up this disastrous purchase for our strategic sovereignty compared to an American administration now headed by a Pusillani president who seems as predictable as a girouette? What is the impact of the new twists of this F-35 saga on the delivery of aircraft to Belgium in terms of costs, delivery times and industrial returns? Was there any firm contract with a Belgian company for the construction of parts used in the manufacture of the F-35? What would be the cost to Belgium of a breach of contract given the defaults recorded by the US party? Given the quality of the F-16s, which will soon be re-engaged in Syria, and the state of our public finances, is it not at least reasonable to postpone this purchase for at least six years as recommended by a first study by Lockheed Martin?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u80	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, prior to the award of the F-35A purchase contract, there have been broad debates in Parliament about the end of life of our F-16s. It was in particular on the basis of conclusions drawn at the time that the contract for the purchase of the F-35 was approved by the government. It is not my intention to reopen this debate. With regard to the cost of terminating the contract, I refer you to the answer given to question No 28592 put by Mr Dirk Van der Maelen, on 1 February 2019, according to which we can theoretically terminate our contract with the US government, as is the case with any other contract. The financial consequences depend on the execution phase of the contract in which it is located. Despite certain declarations, the execution of the contract for the purchase of 34 F-35A by Belgium is carried out in accordance with the terms of the contractual conditions at the basis of the Government decision of 25 October 2018, including costs and delivery times. There is currently no intention to terminate this contract. Furthermore, I confirm that agreements have been concluded with Belgian companies in fulfilment of the measures relating to the essential security interests proposed under the contract for the purchase of the F-35A and that others are being finalised. While transactions to realize these opportunities remain primarily a responsibility of the industrial players involved in these measures, the federal government supports our industry to facilitate this process. Realization of opportunities is followed by an inter-federal consultation platform bringing together the Regions and industry. Today, we see that there is a good dynamic between Belgian companies, Lockheed Martin and Pratt & Whitney. Currently, nine implementation agreements have been concluded between Lockheed Martin and the Belgian industry, five of which are directly related to the positioning of the Belgian industry in the supply chain of Lockheed Martin's F-35. For further details, I refer you to my colleague in charge of the Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u81	Minister, we must read between the lines of your answer, because it is not extremely clear. First of all, you tell us that the deadlines are being met. All right. The U.S. government – specifically, the Government Accountability Office – announces that these F-35s will not be delivered until 2026. It's not any source, it's not Sputnik! These are the services responsible for verifying the procedures and delivery times. For my part, I see a difference between the words of the American government and yours. Perhaps I have to ask the United States Embassy in Brussels, but it seems to me rather curious that they can deliver aircraft that will not be ready until 2026. As far as price is concerned, U.S. law prohibits the cost of developing and developing their military equipment from being passed on to supplies to third countries. I am therefore surprised at the absence of a tariff impact. As for the implementation of the transactions, my question was simple: has a contract already been signed with a Belgian company? I did not understand your answer. You announced that you would facilitate the realization of transactions and opportunities, but was a firm contract concluded, and for what amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u82	Mr Dallemagne, as I have said, we are at the stage of implementing agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u83	So that means there is no contract? It would be good to answer this question clearly in order to clarify the situation. Very long months have passed since the signing of this contract, without any industrial return for Belgium. I am very afraid that we will stay there, given President Trump's new ambitions. You also did not tell me the amount of the debts that would be owed to the U.S. government. We have the right to know it, since we know what the contract is. The cost of a possible break would be very useful information for Parliament. In this way, we could appreciate whether it is appropriate to continue the process of purchasing an apparatus that does not respond to the challenges of strategic sovereignty, which is imperatively highlighted by the European Union, and which also poses a great deal of technical problems (development and capacity). It would be interesting, and even important, for this Parliament to have this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u84	In the normal course of an oral question there is a question, then an answer and then a reply. I have the impression that you have something to add, Minister, or can we consider the incident closed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u85	Mr. President, you're getting to know me. When someone asks me a question, I always try to answer it. And I like to clarify when there are inaccuracies or doubts. Mr Dallemagne, as I said, the interruption of the contract would indeed involve a fine, compensation, but this amount can only be known from the moment when it is decided to interrupt it. If I tell you it's in fifteen days, two months or three months, you know, like me, that this amount varies. It is at the time when the contract is broken that one can know exactly the amount of the severance pay that would be disclosed. You say that no contract has been signed, nor do I want us to leave the committee saying that nothing has happened with the Belgian industrial sector. Implementations are underway and therefore the work is being done. It's also important to say so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u86	Minister, I am asking you the question today. Therefore, I am asking you about the compensation in case of resignation today. It's as simple as that. The idea is not to extend this contract further. It seems to me that this provided a clear answer. Therefore, if you have the opportunity to give me the figures for today's deed, I will be pleased to read your written answer. As far as industrial returns are concerned, I maintain that, for the time being, there are none.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u87	Minister, several Fedasil centres are located in defence infrastructure or close to a military base. I am reminded that several sites are being analysed to assess the feasibility of extending certain centres, including the Fedasil Centre in Florennes. The Florennes base is in the immediate vicinity of this centre and an investment plan has been put in place to accommodate the new F-35 fighters. Have you consulted with the Minister of Immigration on this matter? If so, what has emerged from your discussions? Which sites are affected by these extensions? More particularly in the case of the Offenberg base in Florennes, are you aware of this feasibility study of extending the Fedasil centre? What does it show? In view of the arrival of the new F-35 combat aircraft, what is the position of the Defence regarding this project to extend the Fedasil centre? Is an extension compatible with the arrival of new aircraft and, if so, what measures will be put in place? Have the local authorities been informed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u88	Mr Bombled, first of all, I would like to point out that the responsibility for migration and asylum policy lies with my colleague, Minister for Social Affairs, Public Health and Asylum and Migration, Maggie de Block, and Fedasil. I am aware of the project for a possible eastward extension of the Fedasil centre in Florennes but, given the current situation, it is not envisaged to extend this centre. In this context, Defence has proposed other military areas such as Sijsele and Coxide.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u89	Thank you for your answers, I have no other comment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic210x.u90	Finally, I would like to add that question No. Mr Verduyckt, No 55006804C Question No 5, by Mr Bayet 55006978C by Mrs Jadin will be converted into written questions. The next sitting will begin with questions put together. 55006961C, 55007156C, 55007209C and 55007235C by Mr Steven Creyelman, Mrs Julie Chanson, Mr Sammy Mahdi and Mrs Julie Chanson.
