ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 September 2020, you have received a proposal to amend the agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 September 2020, you received a proposal to amend the agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u3	Mr President, next week the government statement or the inquiry debate will be on the agenda. I propose that this debate should not be held here, but in a large room, where all the representatives of the people can be present. It is a very important debate. Everyone has the right to do so, both the opposition and the majority. Everyone should be able to take part in that debate. So I propose that we rent a very large room next week. Even the Royal Circus or the Ancienne Belgique are nearby. The Vooruit is far, in Ghent, but I suggest that everyone participate, so that we do not see last week's vaudeville again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u4	I will not comment on the names of the alternatives you are proposing, from the Circus and the Ancienne Belgique to the Vooruit. Let me get serious. The issue was raised yesterday in the Conference of Presidents, Mr Dedecker. The debate on the inquiry on 1 October is indeed an important one. I am also rather attached to the fact that all elected MPs have the opportunity to attend. That is why since yesterday, with the services of the Chamber, we have been trying to find alternatives. The most obvious alternative is the sitting room of the European Parliament, but I do not have an answer yet. As soon as I have news, I will inform the group leaders. Other alternatives can also be considered, but I will not anticipate the situation. I am on your side, however, with regard to the possibility for Members of Parliament to attend an important debate. I'll keep you posted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, at the Conference of Presidents, we made some arrangements to be present in a larger number, of course with respect for security regulations. The Prime Minister has already taken his place. The members of the Chamber who ask a question will do so to my right, the members of the government who answer will do so from the other puppet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u6	Prime Minister, several indicators are worrying and the coronavirus epidemic is not under control. Yesterday's National Security Council decided to relax the rules from 1 October, and it is true that some of these rules were too square, others impossible to put into practice, especially since the children returned to school and the students to higher schools and universities. But - and it's a big butt! - easing the rules is only prudent if the preconditions for controlling the epidemic are met by means of a perfectly effective mechanism for the detection, tracing and isolation of positive people. That's not the case. A multitude of problems go back to the ground, despite repeated calls from the last few weeks: testing centres are saturated, general practitioners are overwhelmed... Symptomatic patients who have been in contact with a positive person have to wait several days to get an appointment in order to get tested and several more days to know the test result. Tracing starts late and is insufficient. There is a shortage of reagents and swabs in some areas. On 1 October, parents of small children who will have to be removed from the crèche or school for health reasons linked to compliance with the rules issued by the State will no longer be entitled to the "corona parental leave". Yesterday, you seemed to have taken stock of these problems by announcing that they were going to be solved. Madam Prime Minister, can you - you or your successor - guarantee that by 1 October, the date of relaxation of the rules, these problems will be solved and the system strengthened as a matter of urgency so that within 24 hours, a patient can get an appointment and the result of his test, that the tracing is immediately launched in a much wider and more effective way than today, and that the means of isolating the carriers, in particular through parental leave corona? We have been entitled to reflections and announcements for weeks. Today, we need action and efficiency!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, trust comes on foot, but goes on horseback. At the beginning of this corona crisis we knew little, but at this moment we know more. In the beginning everyone was indeed a potential victim, but we are increasingly asking for something from those groups that are less affected themselves. Sometimes ad hoc measures are needed, but after this summer's break people expect a plan. The image we saw yesterday is an image that comes back way too often. The government has an idea. The government has a plan, but then it doesn't work out. The barometer isn't here yet, but we'll deal with it. Two weeks ago, you spoke of relaxation, but you seem to be ignoring today's figures. This is a policy that is too slow for reality. The measures taken yesterday are no longer today's measures. Luckily, we don't live in a police state. We depend on the behavior of our inhabitants. They follow the rules without a police officer on every corner of the street. This can only be achieved if there is confidence in the proposals and in those who bring them forward. It's not obvious anymore. Some experts have been on television too often for that. For this, politicians have dived too often when additional measures or exaggerated measures were taken, such as curfew. The difference between what the doctors ask and what the government does is far too great. What lessons do you draw from all the feedback you receive? You may be right, but if communication doesn't follow, it won't work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u8	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, how credible are the politicians still in our society? That is a fundamental issue. I don't know if you've thought about it. There might be another Prime Minister next week. It is a major problem in our society that credibility is below zero. The faults of communication, the chaos that exists today and the struggle that is being seen today on television are a source of public distrust. That is a very big problem if we want to resolve the crisis. Prime Minister, when you see the men and women politicians today... For example, Georges-Louis Boucher, have you seen the spectacle that he has given us? His ego, his ego, his ego! "Hi on the camera! I want people to talk about me and my program!" And all of this, so you can stay prime minister. What is this spectacle, what is this struggle of places within the political world? We are going through one of the worst financial, economic and health crises, and what is the political world doing? He spends his time fighting! Posts, mails, mails. We thought we had two reformers yesterday. But then CD&V didn't agree. The MR was no longer in agreement either. What are we doing? Yesterday at your security council, there was only the message that the citizen is the only one responsible for today's situation. No responsibility whatsoever for the politicians. The responsibility lies only with the citizens. It's open bar! Quid the responsibility of the policy? What is the status of the necessary reinforcement of the first line? You did it for the nurses? Is it much to ask for a national coordinator? With the present political and economic crisis, it is not possible to leave it there. Tell me seriously, Madam Prime Minister, since you may not be able to do so next week, do you agree with this way of doing politics in this country or, like me, are you disgusted?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, for the record, this series of questions is about the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u10	Mr. President, you're right. But I had also introduced to the Prime Minister a question on another subject, the political crisis (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u11	Yes, but your question has been classified under the heading corona crisis. I would like to remind the House that we are now talking about the corona crisis, and I am thinking spontaneously of yesterday's National Security Council. The Prime Minister will judge what she answers, but I shall now give the floor to Mrs Dock.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u12	Madam Prime Minister, living with the virus, accepting that it is still there for a long time is difficult for all of us, but it is our reality. Your statements yesterday at the National Security Council are consistent with what was announced. We are moving from crisis management to risk management. The measures announced give us guidelines on how we can organise our daily lives. Our contacts, wearing a mouth mask, the quarantine period, everything was re-examined. However, abolishing the social bubble certainly does not mean, and you have been very clear about that, that the door is open to any possible behaviour. We still have to remain very vigilant and respect the sanitary measures, the so-called six golden rules. [[:]] From now on, closer contacts are put in the hands of the citizen's responsibility. Experts recommend limiting contacts to five identical people per month. It is a freedom and, I say, an individual responsibility. This is no longer a family-based choice. This recommendation is consistent with the realities of our Belgian families. With regard to parties and events organized, the call from the catering sector and wedding organizers was heard and we welcome it. As we know, we will have to learn to live with this virus. Yesterday, you informed us that a dynamic tool is being developed by Celeval. Madam Prime Minister, could you tell us what the philosophy of this barometer will be? Can you give us more information on the implementation of this tool? When and how will the system be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u13	Madam Prime Minister, c'est le ton qui fait la chanson. For eight months I've been hearing you talk about "the" virus. You're not talking about a virus or the virus. Une fille, un garçon. A little linguistic hygiene in your communication would do wonders because your communication is chaos. We don't remember either, just do your will, that's the tone of your communication. I would also like to mention the way in which the measures you are communicating are working. Because it's just as chaotic. You hold a press conference, then you draw up a legal text and later you provide the local authorities with a list of frequently asked questions. I believe that order from the beginning is manifest error. First there must be a legislative text, then an explanatory and explanatory note, and then the communication can be done by means of a press conference. To the point "Forgive me the pun "You haven't always been. I have looked at it and we have had 16 ministerial decisions split in the stomach, supplemented by 22 FAQs and a lot of correspondence. Madam Prime Minister, regardless of their attitude, experts, observers and commentators are devastating from various quarters about your latest press conference. She was labeled the most senseless. I refer to the rectors of our universities who today advise their students not to do above all what you said yesterday as Prime Minister. How much more painful can it get? How much more shocking is a lack of authority? Madam Prime Minister, how do you see the role of local authorities and mayors, who want to give you more responsibilities, to get all these almost incomprehensible measures implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u14	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, the situation is not simple. It has never been denied: there is no simple answer to a complicated problem. But understand our astonishment. It has now been days since the Crisis Centre announced that the figures are on the rise. Yesterday morning, we learned that our country had passed red on the OECD map. And yesterday, at 2:30 p.m., you announced relaxed measures. At the conclusion of the National Security Council, you said that we are entering a risk management phase with a strong commitment to empower our fellow citizens to teach them how to live with the virus. But accountability requires a clear and coherent framework. However, it must be admitted that, despite all the efforts made, the blurry continues to prevail for our population: the close contacts or not, the quarantine which goes from fourteen to seven days, but which is different depending on whether we are asymptomatic or symptomatic, the announcement of thousands of additional tests while, in the field, the actors can no longer cope with the demand, the announcement of a platform allowing to consult the results at a distance while the coumacs of e-health are no secret to anyone. Madam Prime Minister, are you really convinced today to take the right turn at the right time? Are you convinced that the measures are well understood by the population? Are you convinced that all the promises that have been made can be fulfilled? I am thinking here of testing, barometer with color codes, information platforms. Will all these measures be put in place in time and time?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u15	Mr President, I find it truly amazing that language errors are the greatest concern for some people, rather than the seriousness of the situation. Ce n'est pas grave, we say in French. All of Europe is indeed facing a rebound in the epidemic. In Belgium, too, the situation is serious. The number of infections is increasing and the number of hospitalizations are also increasing. As we know, the situation can also deteriorate rapidly. We must therefore act upstream to avoid having to take more stringent measures later. Acting upstream means respecting at all times the spine of all the other rules, namely the respect of the six golden rules. The importance of these six gold rules is sometimes underestimated. Yet it is not because they were presented long ago that they are not one of the main keys - not the only one - to slowing down the epidemic. We're going to have to live for several more months without a vaccine. We must therefore strike a balance between a possible new life, which allows a semblance of a return to normal, both socially and economically, and the need to ensure that everyone's health is protected. It is in order to ensure this balance that together, from all levels of power, experts, health care providers and the various sectors, we have been working tirelessly and decisively since the beginning of the crisis. Together, this also means with the people, who have demonstrated their courage and adaptability, because we are all the solution. We have asked the experts at CELEVAL to work on this new approach, an approach that combines the protection of the health of our citizens and measures that must be sustainable for all. The experts have done an important job in recent weeks, and I thank them for that, to outline the contours of this new life and the constraints that will accompany it. The aim is to be able to change the rules and restrictions according to the epidemiological situation with a decline at national, regional and provincial level. The approach on which CELEVAL has worked still needs to be supplemented and more concerted, so that it cannot be validated at this stage, and I will return to that. The National Security Council held yesterday was therefore based on the elements contained in the CELEVAL report which were sufficiently mature to be decided, namely the question of wearing the mask, organizations of professional events and social contacts. The other aspects still need to be discussed. The decisions announced yesterday in the National Security Council are based on the current epidemiological situation. We have not, contrary to what some say, overly relaxed the current rules. Decisions on the current epidemiological situation are based on expert advice With regard to the wearing of the mask, we recalled and stressed the basic rule that is an obligation when safety distances cannot be guaranteed. On the other hand, keeping this obligation outside at all times, at all times, is pointless and hinders the acceptance of the population, even though the situation does not justify it. I do not call this a relaxation. For organizations of professional events, we have given organizers of weddings or other types of events of this kind the opportunity to work under the same conditions, already existing, of the Horeca. We now know that it is possible to work safely in accordance with the strict rules laid down for the Horeca sector. It was important to decide on this harmonization. It is not a relaxation, it is a harmonisation that they greatly need if they are to survive. There is no reason to single out these professionals compared to others. However, the work has not been completed. Improvements will have to be made to the existing protocol and consultation between CELEVAL, the event sector - the night world for example - or any other sector subject to too much restriction must also take place. We must also be able to give opportunities to those heavily affected by the crisis. There has also been a lot of discussion on the issue of social contacts. We decided yesterday in the National Security Council to change the rules on social contact and to make them more bearable. Better flexible rules that are respected by many people than too strict rules that no one supports. It's just that what people found difficult about the social bubble. So that's what we've changed. This approach to social contacts can always be adjusted. It's important to remember that. This will undoubtedly evolve depending on the epidemiological situation. The more serious the health situation, the more the number of recommended social contacts will be reduced. I can already tell you that the risk is very high that we can expect more restrictions in the short term, because indeed, the evolution of the health situation in our country is not beneficial. However, today's situation allows for close contact with a maximum of five people. It is also important that everyone takes responsibility to avoid further restrictions in the future. As I said, the evolution of the measures will depend on the evolution of the epidemiological situation. This evolution is determined by a number of factors, but above all by the number of hospitalisations. All these indicators together form what I called the epidemiological barometer. This barometer allows everyone to assess the epidemiological situation in the country, region or province. It enables us to align the current measures with the development of the situation. This work could not yet be completed, but will be completed in the coming days. There are still a number of problems. The rules haven't all been aligned yet. As I said, there is still a need for consultation. The model itself needs to be adapted to take into account, for example, the residence of the patients for cities with a large number of hospitals. Finally, we must ensure that the transitions from one stage to another do not follow too quickly. There must therefore be a certain degree of predictability. The current barometer is based on a color code. In our country and in Europe in general, there are already many colour codes. It is therefore also important to ensure the greatest possible harmonisation in order to avoid confusion, even though we know that this is not an easy task. However, the main point about the barometer is that the greatest aspects of our society must be provided under the different levels of this barometer. That way people can know what to expect. That work has yet to be completed. The question of the barometer...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u16	Madam Prime Minister, I must be strict with Parliament, but also with you. I gave them to you, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u17	Okay, I didn't see that. Do you want me to finish or do I quit? That's up to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u18	Well, you asked for eight minutes, and you're already over it. I say that to the MPs too, if they go beyond their time, otherwise I get all kinds of angry looks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u19	I heard I had ten minutes, otherwise I would have done it another way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u20	Let's get this over with. May I ask?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u21	There were a few questions I would like to raise about communication and what the government still needs to do. Communication is fundamental and it is true that today there are many things that are detrimental to communication. First of all, it has to be said that the rules have evolved as they evolve, which each time requires an adaptation of the population to become accustomed to new rules. It's complicated, and every time we introduce something, we'll have to repeat and remember over and over again. And when different voices express themselves to say that this is better and that it is less good, it makes things even more difficult. But, be careful, the debate is healthy in democracy. On the other hand, it is important to know and remember that the six rules must, in any event, be respected. That's indisputable! Some said that all the blame was put on the population. That's not true! This is teamwork between the different levels of power. It's teamwork between the authorities and the population and everyone has to do the job. I agree with Mrs Fonck's question about the testing. Yesterday, in the National Security Council, there was much talk about the first line, because it is now the one who is hit with full force. His concern is understandable in view of the number of tests and results. There is still a lot of work to be done here. Finally, I come to a question which did not correspond entirely to the subject. This crisis indeed has important social, economic and health consequences and these are likely to be even more important in the future. This must be taken seriously by the present government, but, as I have said a thousand times, it must also be taken seriously by a future government that has a majority in this House. I wish it with all my heart. As far as the distribution of posts is concerned, I will tell you, as always, that we must remain focused on the content. And I can only hear you talking about it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u22	As far as the replies are concerned, I would like to remind you for the umpteenth time that both Parliament and the government must respect the time limits. So please respect them all!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u23	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. Clearly, the perception of yesterday's NSC and your remarks that you did not want to relax do not coincide. It is enough to see today the reaction of the universities, which call not to relax the rules with the students. You talked about acting upstream. Prime Minister, this means anticipating the evolution of the epidemic, as it was predictable with the return to school. But that was not the case. Anticipating to protect citizens meant developing a perfectly effective mechanism to test, trace and isolate positives. Protecting citizens means relaxing the rules, but once this device has been installed and proven to be effective. Today, that is not the case. The ball is on your side and the ball is on the side of the various governments. There is an urgent need to regain control of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u24	Madam Prime Minister, we have actually seen nothing new today. You come to Parliament every time and repeat yourself over and over again. You say that repeating the message and removing the confusion among people is the best way of communicating, but people must first understand what is being told. Questions are being asked, but there will be no answers. Concerns are expressed, but people only get a repeat. Most people have seen the new measures as a misguided joke. However, that is not how we are going to make it. The number of infections is increasing. In this way, we will not go through this difficult period. The message you have delivered today is a message that is not enough, not for the doctors, not for the citizens, who are concerned, nor for me. For me, it can do much better.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u25	Madam Prime Minister, I have two elements of reply. The virus, the virus, uno virus, ein Virus, one virus: who cares, N-VA? What do you care what language it is spoken in? If there is one thing that is clear about the virus, it is that it affects everyone in Europe and in the world. However, you want to split everything up into small particles. What are you guys up to? Come up with these things, you're not serious, are you? That's not serious, is it? Madam Prime Minister, you took her out, and she's the best: "No one is talking about posts except Raoul Hedebouw!" Nevertheless, have you opened the newspapers in recent weeks? It's all about that! I don't know if your president has ever told you about his manner, but he seems to be obsessed with the question of who should be appointed prime minister. The Socialists are also candidates, of course. On the CD&V side, we have two candidates, but... But actually they don't believe in their two candidates. They're just talking about the mail, for three weeks now, Madam Prime Minister. Wake up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u26	You have to finish, Mr. Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u27	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u28	Mr. Hedebouw, please finish. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u29	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u30	Mr Hedebouw, I call you to order. Your time was up. For a good understanding, I didn't turn off the micro, it happens automatically. I also note that the questions were about the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u31	Prime Minister, my first reply to the House already referred to courage in politics. As for what will probably be my last reply in this Parliament, if I may, I would like to come back to the subject. I would like to reiterate that the courage to take unpopular measures and to find a delicate balance is a sign of political courage. You embodies that courage. Prognosis about your immediate future, no, Mr. Hedebouw, it's not our priority and you're the only one who's wasting your time talking about it. On the other hand, Madam Prime Minister, there is one thing I am sure about your future. You will have marked the history of our country. The fact that you are the first woman prime minister will only be a detail next to how you managed the most serious crisis we have experienced since the Second World War. In a few months, our first woman prime minister has simply proved to be a state woman! And as we know, state men and women rely on the fingers of their hands. You clearly have your own style: a mixture of charisma, humility (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u32	Mrs Dock, your speaking time is running out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u33	Madam Prime Minister, in my reply, I shall briefly and within the time allotted to me, dot the i. If people want to engage in dialogue and understand each other in a sensible and acceptable way, they must communicate professionally and professionally. My question was not in personam, but in brake. As Prime Minister, you are best placed in this country to communicate all the measures you are ordering to all levels and, above all, to provide support for the population. That's the point. That's what this is about. It is not about language abuses or 'curve communication', but about the fact that you, as Prime Minister, are unable to create a basis for support, either from the governors, or from the mayors, and much more important, or from the people. That is the crux of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u34	Prime Minister, you are talking about empowering citizens. Citizens have experienced the test of confinement, are patient in the queues for testing, have known the recommendations on wearing the mask that have fluctuated over time, have suffered the distance of their loved ones, the bubbles of five, ten, fifteen people. The citizens themselves may have been confronted with the disease with a fourteen-day isolation deemed so far crucial to avoid contamination. Today, however, the cards are being debated and you tell them that they must be responsible. But have they not been so far? As the numbers are on the rise, as the bad season hits our doorstep, the future will really tell us if you've been right to start this turn, this change now. In any event, there is a need to clarify and raise awareness, including among the most vulnerable groups. If we don't, it will clearly fail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u35	Madam Prime Minister, with the corona crisis we would almost forget the sword of Damocles over our economy, the Brexit. We're all following what's being said in Downing Street, and we hear the tough words that it's gonna be a hard Brexit if there's no deal before 15 October. So it's really five to twelve now. I am in business myself, and I hear a great deal of concern there. For our economy, a hard Brexit is bad anyway. In my province of West Flanders, which is closely associated with the UK in business terms, 11,000 jobs are at risk. In fact, 42,000 jobs are at risk throughout Belgium. These layoffs are on top of the corona crisis, which the companies already have to collect. We must do everything we can to avoid it or to be well prepared if it is to be a hard Brexit. Madam Prime Minister, I know that there are differences within the EU about the position we must take on the Brexit. However, our country will certainly be very badly affected. I would therefore ask you to do everything possible to prevent this from happening. What will you do about it? Great Britain is supporting companies that will be affected by the Brexit. What support do we provide for our companies which will be affected by it? Do you think all companies are well prepared for a hard Brexit? Do you still think you can make a contribution if that is not the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u36	Madam Prime Minister, the United Kingdom has not been part of the European Union since 1 February. Until the end of this year there is a transitional period in which the British still have to comply with European market rules. The intention was and is to reach a free trade agreement between the United Kingdom and the European Union during that transitional period, but the negotiations are anything but flexible. One of the main bottlenecks is the access of European fishing vessels to British waters and the maintenance of a so-called level playing field, where future UK rules on the environment, working conditions and subsidies for companies should not deviate too much from European rules. Our business is already under a lot of pressure because of the corona crisis. A no deal Brexit or a hard Brexit would be an additional challenge for our economy, for West Flemish business, for employment and even for our tourism sector. Madam Prime Minister, I would have liked you to give me an update on the Brexit negotiations. How do you estimate the odds of an agreement? An extension of the transition period would not be excluded. Are there any signals in that direction? Is the socio-economic impact of the Brexit on our economy taken into account when drawing up the European budget? Is the government sufficiently prepared for all scenarios? Is the government prepared for the possible negative impact on our companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u37	Mr. President, I'll stay in the nails... of time. The transitional period provided for in the withdrawal agreement will expire on 31 December 2020. A possible extension is not currently under discussion, so as not to hinder everyone's preparations. Admittedly, the timetable is tight, but the European Union is working tirelessly. On issues of great importance to the European Union, such as the level playing field, which you have already raised, there are still bottlenecks. If the position of the United Kingdom were to change, it would still be quite possible to conclude an agreement in mid-October. Otherwise, the various options will have to be analysed at the European Council on 15 October, but we are not yet ready. Belgium has always advocated a common European approach and as ambitious an agreement as possible. It is important that the European Union does not fall into the trap of wanting to end the negotiations, and it is also important that we do not become divided. All Member States must remain calm and united behind chief negotiator Michel Barnier. In line with the conclusion of the extraordinary European Council in July, the European Commission is to present a proposal on the Brexit Adjustment Reserve by November at the latest. The fact that this is happening is a good thing, because that reserve was originally not provided for in the negotiations. It's part of our country that got her there. Unfortunately, the European Council decided that the amount of this fund should not be increased, regardless of the outcome of the negotiations. What is important now is to ensure that the European Commission's proposal actually meets our needs and that we have the best possible access to the funds in the fund. With this in mind, the relevant criteria for Belgium are discussed internally, of course in consultation with the Länder, in the bodies provided for them. As far as support for businesses is concerned, we have discussed this on a number of occasions, including during the negotiations on the financial framework from which the reserve fund came. However, that will not be enough and we will have to see how that fund will be distributed and to whom the money will be spent. You should know that the federal level will, of course, try to support all companies, but that this is usually a competence of the regions. What is also very important is that we are well aware that we are in a corona period. In addition to the Brexit, we will also be hard hit in economic terms. It will therefore be very difficult to distinguish between the companies affected only by the Brexit or only by corona. In the present period, it is very important that we try to help all companies. That is the most important point I would like to raise at the federal level and certainly at the regional level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u38	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. It is, of course, very unfortunate that the United Kingdom is leaving the European Union. We are still convinced that the European project on our continent has provided 70 years of prosperity, growth and peace. However, the British have chosen, so we have to accept the Brexit. We cannot, however, accept that our Belgian companies and employees will suffer. So I am glad to hear that the fund is certainly thinking about our Belgian companies. Belgium has always been a country that opted for a compromise policy. We have always believed that we can better regulate trade relations as well as possible. Good neighbourliness in trade relations always delivers better results. So I hope that there will still be a hard fight to avoid a hard Brexit. And if that were to happen, we should save our companies the shock wave of that hard Brexit after their journey on the turbulent corona waters. I hope, and I am sure, that the next government will take care of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u39	Madam Prime Minister, you speak in your reply about the UK's attitude, but you forget the European Union's attitude. Belgium must tell the EU that it should not be difficult and that it should stop revenge expeditions and back-to-back fights after the British have left. As soon as possible, conclude a fair trade agreement, just as one was concluded with Iceland, Switzerland, New Zealand and even Vietnam. An ambitious free trade agreement between the EU and the United Kingdom is and remains crucial in view of and in the interests of our Flemish economy and employment. Flanders is, moreover, the UK's fourth largest trading partner. Where appropriate, Belgium or Flanders should be able to conclude trade or association agreements themselves. Instead of waiting for Godot, let us set an example ourselves, as a good neighbour and important trading partner.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u40	Mr President, Minister, an agreement had been reached between Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg to freeze the number of days of telework during a health crisis. You have also renewed or extended this agreement until 31 December 2020, and I thank you for that. Unfortunately, we now see that some workers would be excluded from this VOCID-19 agreement. I would really like to hear from you on this issue. Why are these workers excluded and how have the legislation been interpreted to get there? I insist that there is, in my view, a problem of interpretation. My second question concerns the compensation fund for our communes from the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. What about it? Has this fund already or not been paid to Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u41	Mr President, Mr Arens, I think that you are referring to a press article which pointed out that the agreement between our country and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg would create discrimination between employees who are included in the agreement and other categories such as civil servants and self-employed persons who are not. I would like to highlight three elements. Firstly, the agreement which was concluded concerned employees only. In the double taxation agreement, these employees are subject to taxation in the State in which they work. Of course, if these people do more telework, there may be a problem, but this problem is addressed in the agreement. Secondly, the self-employed and the liberal professions are not included in this agreement. In the case of self-employed persons, the criterion taken into account is not the place of work but the presence of a permanent establishment. Civil servants, on the other hand, are subject to taxation in the State of the employer, which is precisely the State. I therefore believe that the article wrongly mentions the presence of discrimination. The agreement we reached was for employees and not for self-employed and public servants. I would also like to point out that similar agreements have been concluded with Germany and France, which also apply only to employees. Thirdly, with regard to your last question, my services are not aware of any request from the Luxembourg authorities for financial compensation to be replaced by direct subsidies to the border communes. It is therefore not possible for me to comment on this question, which has not been put to me or to my services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answer. However, I should like to point out that the various amicable agreements signed in May, June and August between Belgium and Luxembourg refer to Article 15(1) of the Tax Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation between Luxembourg and Belgium. This paragraph refers to persons who may be taxed in the territory of which they are active and to splits or employees posted to a Luxembourg company. Seconded employees must therefore be included in these agreements. Article 15, paragraph 2, is, in fact, an exception to the general principle. If the posted worker continues to work on behalf of the host company but of his country of residence, fiction must also apply. There must be no discrimination! Mr. Minister, further clarification on this matter is essential because, as things stand at present, it is not possible to find one another. Managers or administrators dedicated to day-to-day management are covered by Article 15(1) and must therefore be covered by the VOCID agreements. They are also regarded as employees within the meaning of social law. In the same way, I am almost convinced that the administrators dedicated to day-to-day management, as referred to in Article 16 of the Belgian-Luxembourg Convention, are to be dealt with by Article 15.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u43	Deputy Prime Minister, after Panama Papers, SwissLeaks, LuxLeaks, LiechtensteinLeaks, OffshoreLeaks and BahamasLeaks, a new investigation by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, called FinCEN Files, notes the central role of many global banking institutions in the transfer and laundering of money. We are talking about 2,000 billion suspicious transactions between 1999 and 2017. This corresponds, for example, to the GDP of a country like Italy. The investigation shows that banks are a key part of the money laundering machine for organized fraud and crime. Among these, it seems – alas! - Belgian banks are involved. Money transfers characterized as suspects ranging from a few hundred to several million dollars have been discovered. The first four Belgian institutions are all cited in numerous confidential documents related to money laundering, one of which has been held mainly by the Belgian State since 2011. Under the previous legislature, however, the report of the PanamaPapers Special Commission provided several specific recommendations, including that institutions should have an appropriate integrity policy and that banks should refrain from providing services that could facilitate fraud or tax evasion. Deputy Prime Minister, my questions are simple. What is the government's position on the scandal involving Belgian banks? [[Did the Belgian State, the majority shareholder of one of them, or should it have become aware of these suspicious movements?]] Are sanctions or legislative amendments to ensure an effective fight against fraud and money laundering involving financial institutions envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u44	Mr Minister, one more financial scandal, and once again, it is the journalists and whistleblowers who reveal it, and it is not the Minister of Finance, the one who normally should fight this tax fraud. I consulted the press, I consulted your Twitter account, your website: nothing, not a word from you about this FinCEN Files scandal! No, you're more concerned today about your possible future position as Prime Minister than about the job you're supposed to do. At the heart of this scandal, the banks, which have an essential role in tax fraud.- we knew it, but it is still confirmed here - but also Belgium. Because, among the 2,100 documents presented by this scandal, 365 cite the word "Belgium". Belgium! And especially the four most important banking institutions in our country, two of which you are a shareholder (Belfius and BNP Paribas), and even 100% for Belfius. It's your banks somewhere, Minister! I remember, at the Panama Papers commission in 2016, the bankers came to tell us: "Everything has changed. The situations we've known in the past are past, it's over." And you yourself, Minister, say exactly the same thing. In May 2020, you said: "Today's bankers are no longer ten years old. They are fully aware of their role in society." Wrong, Minister! Wrong! The FinCEN here prove it. Large financial crime continues to go through the banks. So we can only see your inaction; because you have reduced the number of tax auditors. Here, in plenary, I told you that there was 50 billion black money on Belgian bank accounts: no reaction on your part. And now, even the authors of the Fortis scandal, Lippens and company, get away with it. Minister, just one question: Will the likely future Vivaldi coalition continue to play...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u45	Mr Minister, after the Swiss Leaks, the Panama Papers and other leaks, we were able to get to know a new leak this week. That leak provides a glimpse into a world of special financial transactions, where masses of money, especially criminal money, are pumped around the world and laundered. I'm talking about the FinCEN Files. It's 2,100 leaks to the American money cell. What do we determine? There is, perhaps surprisingly, also an important Belgian link. A number of Belgian banking institutions are used by other foreign banks, which transfer money destined for the United States to a Belgian bank. That way of working has been exposed to a high risk of money laundering. However, in Belgium we have extensive money laundering regulations based on European rules. We also have a supervisory body, the National Bank, and a money cell, the CFI. However, a few years ago in this House, during the special committee on Panama Papers, the banking institutions made clear statements and made promises that they want to take the lead in the fight against money laundering. However, we note that such matters are taking place. That's why I have some questions for you. What do you think should happen in relation to the banking institutions? Is additional money needed for the National Bank and the CFI to increase control and investigate certain money laundering mechanisms? Where is the project between the banks and the government to create an anti-money laundering platform?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u46	Thank you for your questions. The FinCEN Files once again stress the importance of combating money laundering and certainly that of criminal origin. This fight is a priority for our country but also at European level. As you know in 2017, the fourth anti-money laundering directive was adopted. In this Parliament, a few weeks ago, we also discussed the fifth anti-money laundering directive. Note, however, that the files that were released this weekend and the past days are before 2017 and 2020, years when the directives I have just mentioned have been implemented. I would like to provide you with some additional information. The FinCEN Files highlight reports based on known suspicions of the US anti-money laundering authorities. In the CFI's regulations, there is a difference between what is called a report and serious evidence. Serious clues are used by our own CFI. What we're talking about here is suspicion. It's not of the same nature. The FinCEN Files do not concern Belgian accounts in Belgian banks. They concern accounts held by Belgian banks in foreign banks, so-called banking correspondents. I agree with you that the CFI should be strict in such transactions. It will do so, it will continue to do so, and it will continue to step up the fight in the years to come. It is clear that, if there are reports and it would be clear that the banks are not playing their role properly, the CFI must comply with its European obligations and report them to the National Bank of Belgium, which it has done very often. In fact, Mr Van Hees, the National Bank of Belgium has increased its supervisory capacity in this area in recent years. The adoption of the Fifth Anti-Money Laundering Directive here in Parliament will certainly help to further strengthen that fight. I come to the last point I would like to mention. As I said, this is a top priority for our country and I would like to demonstrate that. When transposing European directives, Belgium, compared to other countries, has the tradition of always opting for the interpretation of the strictest possible transposition. We always choose to take the most restrictive track and I support this choice because I think it's the right one. Therefore, in comparison with other countries, we often find that we are going much further in this area than other countries. Does that mean that there is no longer a problem and that any additional effort would be superfluous in a financial world that is becoming increasingly sophisticated, especially in terms of money laundering? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But coming here and saying that our country does not do enough or does less than other countries is not right!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u47	Minister, thank you for these answers. You have been quite clear about the guidelines and the role of CTIF. I join you, but Belgium can still do better. Again, I refer you to the recommendations of the Panama Papers Committee. While there was no full-fledged government to put them into effect, I would like to recall these four recommendations: "Institutions must have a policy of appropriate integrity and corporate values; banks must in any case refrain from providing services that can facilitate tax evasion or avoidance under penalty; a bank oath can be envisaged and a charter can be negotiated between professional federations and the tax administration." If, by chance, you come across people who are trying to form a government these days or if you are trying to form one yourself, it would be interesting if the future government statement directly incorporated these four recommendations of the commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u48	Mr President, Minister, I would like to touch on three points. First, who sabotaged the conclusions of the Panama Papers Commission? Your party, the Open Vld! Secondly, you say that Belgium supports those who are fighting tax fraud at the level of the Eurogroup which brings together finance ministers. Who did you support for the presidency of the Eurogroup? The Irish candidate whose country is a tax haven. Here's your choice! Thirdly, you say that the number of tax auditors has been increased. But you have shown the opposite in an answer to one of my questions. The number of tax auditors has fallen! Indeed, the number of FPS Finance officers as a whole has declined, but this is also the case for tax auditors. Justice also has no means to combat financial crime. In fact, this government is sabotaging the fight against tax fraud because you don't want your friends to be attacked bankers, your friends the big fraudsters.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have two elements of reply. Firstly, the fight against money laundering is a broad, social task, across many sectors. We cannot escape the fact that the banks have a crucial place in this. In this respect, I am pleased that you say that both the CFI and the National Bank need to step up the fight. It is also a good thing that we implement European directives strictly. Secondly, the FinCEN Files show that the fight against tax fraud has certainly not been fought. However, the fight against tax fraud is an essential part of fair taxation. Any income lost in money laundering or fraud must be collected from people who do pay fair taxes. In this respect, it is important that a future federal government also pursues a good policy against tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u50	Mr Minister, I would like to ask you about your responsibility for customs, the Flemish ports and the many victims of the huge quantities of drugs that flow into Flanders. Journalist Faruk Özgünes went to research this week for the VTM News and Telefacts. This year 36 tonnes of cocaine were intercepted in the port of Antwerp. Customs expect the record catch of 61 tonnes last year to be made again at the end of this year. In addition, only 1.5 % of containers are checked. What is ultimately found in Antwerp is only what slips through the meshes of the net. Even in the ports of South America there is eventually control. So what's intercepted is just the tip of the iceberg. 61 tonnes of cocaine has a street value of no less than 3 billion euros. The drug criminality in our country is under your responsibility and the responsibility of your predecessor, Mr Van Overtveldt, can grow into a billion-dollar business, with all the violence that comes to mind and which is rightfully frightening the ordinary Flemish people. What have you done since last year's record catch? What is the status of the 100 % scanning project? Today, less than 2 % of containers are checked. Do our hard-working customs officers, who have to row with the belts they have, get more people, resources and powers to finally tackle this violent billion-dollar business more decisively?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u51	Mr Vermeersch, during the first eight months of this year nearly 35 tonnes of cocaine were seized in the port of Antwerp, last year it was 61 tonnes all over the year. As you know, the fight against drugs in the port of Antwerp is an absolute priority for our customs services. In recent years, there has been a particularly strong investment in this area. Firstly, there is the Stroomplan, an intensive cooperation between customs and services such as the city of Antwerp, the local and federal police, the court and the inspection services. Secondly, there has been very heavy investment in additional resources for customs, also thanks to the work of my predecessor, Johan Van Overtveldt. The drug team's staff has doubled and the scanning capacity has increased considerably. The aim of all these investments is to eventually reach, whatever you mentioned, the project 100 % scanning and screening. The aim is to secure the various port terminals better than is the case today and to use a combination of risk analysis and new techniques of scanning. Thirdly, customs has also greatly increased cooperation with high-risk countries in Latin America and with the US Customs and Border Protection and the Drug Enforcement Administration. They are also permanently housed in our premises in the port of Antwerp. Again, the fight against illegal trafficking is an absolute priority. Special efforts have been made to reduce supply. I would like to say something further about that. The supply is also there because there is a demand. If there is no demand, there is no supply. In my view, we underestimate the fact that, unfortunately, there is also demand for cocaine in our country throughout Europe. This use is seen by some as something that may be innocent, but every use has blood on its fingers, not only from those involved in Latin America, but also in our country people are unnecessarily put at risk by the use in our country. I am not saying that we should not continue to invest in restricting supply, but in my view too little attention is paid to the fact that demand exists.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u52	Mr De Croo, it's all too slow. Operation Night Watch in Antwerp is the answer to street violence by drug criminals. An answer which, as far as we are concerned, could be even more firm. But the underlying cause, the thriving drug criminality, that violent billions of dollars business, needs to be rolled up. The incessant flow of drugs must stop. Otherwise mopping with the tap will continue to be open. It seems to be a bit of a harbinger of your Vivaldi government, abandoning our Flemish ports, and also the Flemings, who are rightly afraid of all this drug violence. Mr De Croo, give more people, resources and powers to our hard-working customs officers. Let it be very clear to all Vivaldis here: it is the police and customs who need to be boss again in this country and not the Moroccan drug criminals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u53	The EU is coming up with a new migration pact, a Marrakech Pact 2.0, which will be binding this time. Do you know, dear people, who wrote that pact? Commissioner Ylva Johansson, a Swedish politician who was elected to the Communist Party in her own country. She says she is very proud that the original Swedish population is quickly being replaced by migrants. Thanks to this weak and cowardly government, the Swedish, extreme left-wing politicians can now also decide on our migration policy. Mass migration from Africa does not want to stop or stop them, it wants to organise and even facilitate them. Just yesterday, Johansson said that our continent needs even more mass migration from Africa. That's just suicidal. I therefore wonder, Mrs De Block, whether you dare to look the Fleming, our people, in the eye and dare to say to them that it is true that we need even more mass migration from Africa. I actually wanted to ask you whether you would dare to oppose this suicide pact at the European summit next week. Do you know what the worst part is? In the Vivaldi government's pre-formative note, even before the content of this migration pact became known, Belgium was to sign on to the forthcoming migration pact and to perform it loyally. So you signed up for a suicide pact before you knew what its contents would be. That's the shame far past. I have only one thing to say: we will challenge that. The people don't want any more, the people want less migration. It's not just the Flemish. Contrary to what my francophone colleagues say, it is not only the Flemish who want less mass immigration, but also the Francophones! Colleagues, enough is enough. Too much is too much.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u54	Madam Minister, this week the European Commission's European migration agreement was proposed. This agreement includes a number of issues such as solidarity between Member States, the strengthening of the European external borders, a more efficient return policy and shorter asylum procedures. The agreement contains a number of good things for our party. In particular, we believe that those who are legally resident in our country should be integrated after an asylum application: learning the language, working, letting the children go to school and participating in our welfare state. Colleagues, who is here illegally, after a rejected asylum application, or who is here as a transmigrant, must, however, leave. Voluntary if you can, forced if you have to. Return rates throughout Europe are poignant. A third of the illegals in Europe return to their country of origin. Two thirds just stay in Europe. This week we discussed in the Committee on the Interior the report of the Bossuyt Committee, which makes a number of recommendations to organise return policy more quickly and efficiently. An effective return policy is, after all, the culmination of an asylum procedure, but also of a sound migration policy. Madam Minister, after reading the proposal for an agreement, I have a number of questions. Firstly, there is no longer a compulsory distribution between the Member States. How will Europe intervene in a future migration crisis? Secondly, countries that will or will not accept asylum seekers will have to provide financial and operational support to those who do. Could you give me a hint of the veil? How will this happen in practice? Thirdly, are there measures in the migration agreement to better identify and arrest the smugglers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u55	Gentlemen, the European Commissioner, Mrs Johansson, has presented her proposals in a global story. There is now a basis for the resumption of negotiations at European level. It has taken too long, because structural solutions are long overdue. A priori, we agree with the general philosophy, in particular to seek workable and pragmatic solutions, to make the system more efficient and to increase solidarity and responsibility for all Member States. The European Commission also calls for a strong return policy, coupled with more efficient asylum procedures and better border controls, especially at external borders. Each Member State is expected to make a fair contribution. They are therefore positive elements, but of course we remain cautious, because further negotiations are needed. It is not the first time we have heard these proposals, because they have been in the air for years. However, it cannot be just about good intentions and principles that are put on paper. There is also an urgent need to translate into results in the field, and it is precisely the major challenge for the European Union to reach an agreement quickly between the Member States and to deliver on all the promises made in the new migration pact. I have already said that it is important for Belgium to take account of the real migratory pressure in a country, whether it is at the external borders or a second destination country. It is, of course, conceivable that not only the Member States at the external borders face extreme migratory pressures, but also the Member States of destination. For us, it is important that everyone makes a fair contribution and that there are no countries that do not contribute at all. Therefore, making additional efforts on relocation is much less evident for our country than for other countries, and yet we are doing so. We therefore call for a monitoring system in the European Union that reflects the efforts of each Member State, so that at any time it is clear who is making what contribution. That monitoring system can already be implemented for us without waiting for the outcome of the negotiations. It will perhaps feed the discussion about who should do what and let it run more serenely, as it can be based on concrete figures and data. I therefore hope that the years of stagnation will be over because of the new migration pact, because it is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u56	Madam Minister, you are talking about so-called structural solutions, but we have been hearing this noise for decades. Meanwhile, the crisis continues. The taps are open. You claim to be mopping, but there's no mopping at all. One is just looking at how one can let the water run so that the whole house is about equal under water. We need to stop thinking about a dispersal plan. We need to start thinking about how we can stop mass migration, how we can finally turn off the tap. We shouldn't spread the mass migration, we should stop. The agreement that is now being concluded, the migration pact that you had already signed before you knew what was in it, talks about how migrants arrive. This is the subject of binding agreements, but when it comes to return, it is all of a sudden about opinions. Then there will be no binding agreements at all. You know as well as I and all the colleagues present that this return will not bring anything into the house, not in Belgium and not at the European level. All migrants arriving here stay here. For God's sake, stop them at the outer border.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u57	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear answers. I am pleased to hear that this agreement will strengthen Europe's external borders. I insist that a successful migration policy can only exist if we send back solidly and efficiently executed illegal immigrants. Whoever's here illegally has to leave. Voluntary if you can, forced if you have to. We ask people who apply for asylum here and get it, to integrate, to learn the language and to contribute to it. There are very good examples of newcomers who live and contribute successfully in our society. On the other hand, those who commit criminal offences must leave during their asylum procedure. Madam Minister, it is important that the line you started to draw from 2011, when you became Secretary of State, and which is still being continued, should be extended to the European and Belgian levels as well. We look forward to seeing what else will happen at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u58	Mrs Marghem will answer the next question instead of Mr Goffin who is apologized. I would just like to make it clear that the number of seats in the hemisphere is limited for Members of Parliament and ministers. I would ask that if you are in the building, you are at your disposal to enter as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u59	Mr President, Minister, the world is on the move, but it is not always going in the right direction. Democracy and our way of life are under pressure all over the world. As a member of the European Union, we must act as a counterweight because the sound of democracy is becoming less and less well heard in the world. Sometimes, however, there is hope, this time even directly at our external border. People in Belarus have been calling for change for months, they do not want to continue with the last dictator of Europe. They want what we already have here, freedom. Never been there so many people on the street to bring change. However, change is not self-evident and Russian interference has already begun. What will the European Union do now? Are we going to let this happen or are we going to support our neighbors, the people on the street? Unfortunately, the European Union is not yet taking action. I have already heard Mr Borell but apparently the Member States did not agree with each other this week and the European Council does not meet until next week. Silence is not without consequences, because meanwhile more and more people are trapped, protests are being knocked down, human rights are being violated and the last dictator of Europe is re-appointed President. If the European Union does not act, what will Belgium do? Madam Minister, is Belgium prepared to impose sanctions independently as the people of Belarus continue to be oppressed? Is the Belgian Government prepared not to recognise this dictator bilaterally in his sixth term as President of Belarus?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u60	Madam Minister for Foreign Affairs ad interim, the worrying situation in Belarus unfortunately continues to evolve in the wrong direction. The Belarusian people have been marching through the streets of Minsk and elsewhere for weeks, proclaiming their opposition to President Lukashenko's election, neither free nor fair. Many arrests have already taken place and are continuing. The European Union has repeatedly recalled that it does not recognize Alexander Lukashenko's re-election to the presidency. At a meeting of the European Union's foreign ministers, in which ours participated this Monday, we discussed the potential sanctions to be adopted against those responsible for electoral fraud, repression and violence. Despite the obvious willingness to impose sanctions, it was not possible, because unanimity - once again - was not achieved. It is all the more regrettable that yesterday President Lukashenko was sworn in in a totally unexpected manner at a ceremony that was only made public after the event. This announcement immediately provoked a further demonstration of the opposition in Minsk, which was repressed by hundreds of arrests. This only worsens the political crisis and further accentuates the arbitrary and non-democratic nature of the regime. Minister, what position did Belgium stand at the meeting that brought your peers together this Monday? In your view, what are the reasons for the lack of consensus on the adoption of sanctions? Will the latter be discussed again at the European Council on 1 and 2 October? What criteria will be used to achieve unanimity in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u61	Minister Marghem, who replaces Minister Goffin, has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u62	Mr President, honourable Member, mevrouw de volksvertegenwoordiger, the events of the last few weeks that continue to take place in Belarus are unacceptable and must be condemned very severely. Unfortunately, repression of the regime against citizens continues. Despite this repression, the people continue to claim their rights with admirable dedication. Since August, European ministers have addressed the issue of sanctions against Belarus on several occasions. At the Foreign Affairs Council on 21 September, all the Member States of the European Union agreed to restrictive measures against 40 people. However, the sanctions were not officially accepted on that day. My Cypriot colleague demanded that the approval of the list of sanctions should be accompanied by the approval of the extension of the list of sanctions requested by Cyprus against Turkish persons and companies. The Cypriot demand is still under discussion and will be decided by the Heads of State or Government next week. I regret the delay in the proclamation of sanctions against 40 Belarusians. However, it is important to know that no EU country is against sanctions. I therefore expect them to be able to enter into force in the short term. What about Alexander Lukashenko himself? He remains uncompromising about his refusal to engage with the opposition and the demonstrators. In addition, yesterday in Minsk, he was sworn in in camera in secret, as you recalled, as President. The European Union and all Member States reacted severely this morning. A strong statement was issued, among other things, stating that the so-called oath of 23 September and the new mandate claimed by Alexander Lukashenko had no democratic legitimacy. There is no consensus in the EU to place Alexander Lukashenko himself on the list of sanctions because all opportunities for dialogue must first be given, bilaterally or through the OSCE. Like our EU partners, Belgium supports Belarus' democratic aspirations. We continue to press for an independent examination of the results of the elections and the launch of a national dialogue between those in power and civil society and opposition. We also support the proposal to have the current OSCE Chairman in office and the incoming OSCE Chairman in office, my Swedish colleague, jointly mediate in Belarus, and also on behalf of our country, as a member of the Core Group, play a leading role in the launch of the OSCE Mechanism in Moscow. Belgium reiterates its view that sanctions should essentially aim at punishing those who violate democratic values and human rights. It's absolutely unavoidable! Economic sanctions are not on the agenda at this time, as they would affect the population. Belgium is also in favour of active support from civil society and measures for the benefit of the population. The European Commission has also put forward proposals to this end for a value of EUR 53 million. The concrete distribution of this support by project is under way. For the European Union, the exercise of balance remains of course difficult. Insufficient support for the opposition could undermine our credibility, but the limit to interference is fragile, especially from Russia's point of view. It is important that Russia be involved in a scenario that envisages a transition of power, which is currently the case. A dialogue between the European Union and Russia on Belarus must be a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u63	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I'm glad we're on the same page. It's not enough to just say it. I think it is very important that we act from now on. The meeting of the European Council will take place next week. I think it is very important that Belgium takes a very clear position there. I really hope we're not gonna acknowledge that dictator.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u64	Minister, thank you for that answer. In our view, a European consensus on the question of sanctions must in fact be reached, without of course, as you have pointed out, that these sanctions are turning against the people themselves. This would be a strong sign towards the Belarusians, who, despite permanent oppression, peacefully but tirelessly demonstrate for an aspiration that we believe to be natural in Belgium, but which there resembles a real journey of the fighter: a quest for freedom, svoboda! As the women of Belarus cry tirelessly. For the names of the opponents Svetlana Tikhanovskaya or Maria Kolesnikova hide those of millions of people in this country, who have lived for decades under repression in what can be called the last dictatorship of Europe. We can't turn our backs on them. Alexander Lukashenko must understand that despite Russia's current support, which we all hope could change and reconsider its position, the European Union will stand alongside the sovereign people, of course, as you have said, in dialogue with Moscow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u65	Colleagues, I wish to congratulate Mrs Reynaert on her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u66	Mr President, Minister, you have said this week in Parliament that you have learned that the core exit increases CO2 emissions, increases costs and increases external dependence. You have even encouraged Parliament to work on these findings in committee. Sometimes you say sensible things. In fact, you are on the same lines as Minister De Crem, who has already indicated that the core exit is not possible in the short term and in the same way with an then ambitious President-in-Office, who wrote in his e-book that it is crystal clear that a number of nuclear power plants must be kept open. You are also in line with the socialist family, which says that if the calendar of the core exit cannot be maintained, you must draw conclusions from it. As if all this were not enough, the European Commission has said this week that it is going to carry out a critical and comprehensive study on the grant dossier for the new gas plants, a study that could last one and a half years, where you have no control over the period and, even more, for which you have absolutely no time. If I take all these cases together, I have a number of questions about that. Firstly, under pressure from new colleagues in the hemisphere, will you swallow your words in that area? Do you have your party silenced the aforementioned people by those who want to tell a completely different story? In other words, do you withdraw those statements? The second aspect is at least as important to me. Are you currently being pressured by colleagues from the rest of the government to delay the environmental impact report for Objectives 1 and 2? Will you sit between the wheel from the luggage carrier with your foot to make sure that, to some people (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u67	Mr President, Mr Wollants, I have the honour and the pleasure to answer, in this particular session, key questions concerning the energy mix in our country. You know me enough to know that when I say something, I'm not used to talking in the air and I'm a pragmatic person. In the work I have done, I have always wanted to answer technical questions in a complete and pragmatic way, not as certain in an ideological way. And that, anywhere, in my party or somewhere else. A study by EnergyVille published recently and of which you did not mention – it's amazing! –, says that, even if nuclear power plants are extended, there will be a need for gas-fired power plants for a reason technically linked to their flexibility and the rise of renewable energies in our energy mix. So we don't know yet – since parties are negotiating the formation of a government for October 1st, and I'm obviously not going to make any progress on what's said between them – how, precisely, they are going to formulate the answer to the question of the energy mix tomorrow and the day after. What I can tell you is that I have done everything, with you in particular, to implement all the possibilities that will enable future governments to take the right direction so that three fundamental elements are always ensured: security of supply, the reduction of greenhouse gases and the protection of our environment and the affordability of the bill. To return to your specific questions, concerning Doel 1 and Doel 2, I am not delaying anything. Nobody delays anything at all. The impact study to be carried out will obviously take the necessary time. Please be aware that public procurement has been launched to designate the author of this study and that this environmental study calls for seasons to be allowed to pass because there is a need in this environmental study to also control the status of (...) Don't ask me any more about it. This is what I received as information from the experts and my administration. This study will come out... I see that my microphone has been cut off, but I have to keep answering.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u68	No!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u69	What do you mean, no?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u70	Like parliamentarians, you have a time to speak, Madam Minister. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u71	Mr President, I shall therefore speak to Mr Wollants at the mouth. [[Laughs in the room]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u72	All right. You're making an appointment! In any case, Mr. Wollants is entitled to a one-minute reply. But he too had exceeded his speaking time. It will therefore be limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u73	But we didn't cut his microphone!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u74	Yes, Madam Minister, he was cut. These are the same rules for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u75	I'm very curious if the Vivaldi government has the same vision on Objectives 1 and 2. I am also curious whether, for example, Ecolo will find the green button when Objectives 1 and 2 need to be legally extended. That will be necessary. I can't wait to see how that's gonna work out. We all know that what is happening today in Vivaldi is actually the same ghost game that happened here 21 years ago. Then Mr Verhofstadt absolutely wanted to become Prime Minister and very much paid the high price of the core exit. Today we know that Mr De Croo is absolutely prepared to put his principles, prosperity and security of supply on the table for the same fine seat, so that this country may make the wrong choice. I know very well how that goes. If that government gets posts for principles, we're in a bad way. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u76	Mr Wollants, you should not have talked about Mr Verhofstadt because it took you precious time. That's the moral of this story.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u77	Minister, in March a KB decided to ban self-tests on the Belgian market. Today, however, we see that the RB has not been extended and I am concerned about that, because we all know that these self-tests are not conclusive. They can create a false sense of security among the population. If they are freely available to everyone in the shops, people will no longer respect quarantine rules and we will end up in a very dangerous period. In March, you made a quick decision by issuing a Royal Decree prohibiting the sale of those tests. Why do we not see that decision coming back today? The KB shall not be renewed. I would like to hear clearly from you why the Belgian Government has not today chosen to extend that KB. After all, it could provide a perfectly safe environment for our citizens. What indications do you have to assume that these tests are much safer today than in March? How shall we sensitize people? Like many experts and scientists, you undoubtedly know that the results are not conclusive and that many false positive results can be avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u78	We did indeed ban the self-tests on 17 March. These are tests that can be taken by the people themselves at home, without the supervision of a doctor. At that time, there were many tests, especially antibody tests, on the market that were of insufficient quality. Of course, that was a breach of European legislation at the time, because in principle such tests can be placed on the market as soon as they have a CE certificate. Now we have seen a lot of tests in terms of quality and we have decided to lift the ban and restore normality. The seller, the company making the tests, will have to guarantee the quality of the tests and the European CE certification. I would like to point out that there can be many false positive or false negative results if people themselves take an antibody test. Those tests cannot in any way replace the classic PCR test, which shows whether or not one is carrying a virus and is contagious. These self-tests will show that one has ever been in contact with the virus, if one tests positive. If it isn't, the test will be negative. However, it is still possible that one carries the virus and is therefore still contagious. These tests therefore mean very little for diagnostics. This will be made very clear by the spokesmen at the press conference this week. They will explain that the ban has been lifted, but they will also warn people about the consequences if they wish to interpret the results. If you take such a test and it is positive, you should contact a doctor to see if further steps are needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u79	Minister, I am glad that you yourself state, in a public plenary session, that the tests say very little. That's my concern, too. We all know that health literature will become very important in the coming years. It is about people's skills to assess, assess and obtain medical information. I therefore hope that you will do everything you can to raise the awareness of the people and ensure that everyone is aware that the self-tests are meaningless and certainly not reliable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u80	Mr President, Minister, I think you can imagine getting up, making a cup of coffee, going to the mailbox for the letters and the newspaper that the postman brought. Because that mailman is there every day, through weather and wind. That mailman makes sure I can have a cup of coffee in the morning and read what's going on in the world. I suspect that the same postman, or one of his more than 34,000 colleagues, if he has had time to read the newspaper during his breakfast in the last few weeks, has swallowed up a number of times. A CEO in the eye of the storm. A CEO on the radar of the Competition Authority and the Department of Justice. A CEO who dares not travel to America for fear of being caught. This situation is not good for the workers, Minister. That situation is not good for the customers, all the citizens of this country. And that situation is not good for the brand bpost. I think the CEO should be able to look his employees in the eye. And if he can't, he has to take credit for himself. This situation has been dragging on for months to come. It's devastating. I think things need to be put right at the top of the company. In recent weeks, a number of top drivers have closed the doors behind them, and the workers are rightly concerned. Minister, I have one important question for you: will you not wait for intervention? What can you do about this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u81	Mr President, Minister, since January Bpost has a new CEO, Jean-Paul Van Avermaet. A few months after his appointment, several questions were raised in the press about an investigation initiated against the man by the Belgian Competition Authority. There are cartels and price fixings. We have also heard that the US DOJ, the Department of Justice, has also opened an investigation. Today we read in the newspaper that Henri de Romrée, Radial's top man, a subsidiary of bpost in the United States, is also calling it a day. That's all wrong. Bpost is a public undertaking. That means it's a company of all of us. Minister, do you still believe that this ongoing investigation does not affect the functioning of bpost, as you said at the time? Why didn't Jean-Paul Van Avermaet himself communicate about the fact that there is an investigation against him in the United States? When it comes to a listed company with such important information, isn't it the CEO's duty to make that known? Is it true what I read in the newspaper that you cursed a few days after you got the information from the board that there's no dirt in the air and after that you find out that an investigation has been opened by the DOJ? When can we get transparency and clarity on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u82	Mr President, Minister, it is a shame. Our country's largest public sector is run by a fraud. It's embarrassing for the thousands of postmen who work for the company day in and day out. This morning I received a phone call from a postman who told me that ten years ago he started with great pleasure thinking that he would have a good job, a good pension and job security. What did he tell me today? He said he was gonna stop working. His back was broken and he didn't like it anymore. I received the figures for postal services from your cabinet this morning: there are 1,137 less staff in postal services, while there is more and more work. So 1,137 people got fired. Bpost fires people at the bottom of the ladder, while people at the top, like Van Avermaet, remain protected. Van Avermaet started at bpost. It was noted that he was a good people manager and that he would make a career at the postal company. Before that, he worked as a manager in the security sector and at Voka. What do we see now? We see a very bad Hollywood movie. After all, the FBI now suspects the top fraud man. If he goes to America, there's a lot of chance he'll end up in jail. Minister, I have three questions. Will you now finally take steps at bpost? Will the board of directors fire Mr Van Avermaet? Will you direct the extradition of Van Avermaet to the United States?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u83	Mr President, I will perhaps begin by reminding some in Parliament of the separation of powers, but well. I had this problem raised on the board of directors of bpost a few weeks ago. That was discussed there in my question and I also received an answer to the questions I asked at the time, including the CEO's obligation of transparency vis-à-vis the Management Board. Contrary to the good old days, today it is the board of directors and no longer the minister who appoints or dismisses the CEO. The Management Board considers that the outcome of the proceedings of both the Belgian Competition Authority and the US Department of Justice should not be prejudiced with regard to possible cartel infringements and the possible involvement of Mr Van Avermaet in these proceedings. The Governing Board therefore expects the CEO to comply strictly with its obligation of transparency. In other words, the CEO is invited to inform the Management Board immediately in writing of any further developments in the file, so that the Management Board can take a decision in full knowledge of the matter in order to protect the company's interests as best as possible. The failure by the CEO to comply with this transparency obligation constitutes a serious error and can therefore lead to an immediate termination of his contract without any compensation. The Board also asked the CEO to confirm in writing that he is able and willing to travel to all Bpost subsidiaries, as far as possible in the context of the COVID-19 crisis, of course, and that he is also able to take on his role as CEO of the entire Bpost group. After all, the CEO must be able to run the company and there must be no obstacle to its performance, including vis-à-vis the local teams. I would also ask the chairman of the board to set up a clear policy on communication to shareholders. Bad news and good news should travel fast: that is essential in the trust between a shareholder, the board of directors and management. Mr Henri de Romrée has indeed decided to leave the company. It will remain on board until the end of the year to manage the end-of-year peak of packages and ensure the continuity of the company. The procedure to find a replacement has already been initiated by the remuneration committee of the board of directors, but, contrary to what is in the newspaper, no order was given to Egon Zehnder to find a replacement. Indeed, sometimes people leave the company and new ones come in. In that context, Bpost obviously has an executive management success plan, when someone decides to leave. So that a clear transition can also be arranged. As regards the question of the general position of the Bpost CEO, I have a clear message for this Parliament. This Parliament has asked a number of times to be able to question Mr Van Avermaet so that he can give his view on the future of bpost. There we have given the message very clearly that, for my part, there must be absolute respect for this Parliament. Mr Van Avermaet therefore confirms that he will appear before this Parliament as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u84	Thank you for the clarification. Clearly, it wasn't a simple period for bpost. All in all, the company has kept up quite well in this COOVID-19 period. But let it be clear that the challenges for the company remain immense. When a company faces immense challenges, it needs strong governance, a coherent team with a shared ambition. That's what's missing from the company right now. However, I believe that it is time for bpost to use high and try to expand the possibilities on, for example, the parcel market. Now is the time to grab, not next year, but now. So now there's no room for chaos and disorder at the top of the company. Let's go for strong public companies with clear ambitions, not skews of the past century, but innovative companies with an exemplary role in terms of sustainability, customer orientation and personnel policy, with a CEO and a board of directors who believe in the company and want to take it to a higher level. I think we should go for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u85	Minister, your communication is clear. I understand in between the lines that things have been said behind the scenes and that today the board of directors demands from his CEO that he communicate in a different way. That's good. Transparency is necessary for everyone. I also understand that Mr Van Avermaet will be coming to Parliament on 6 October. I would advise him to take the opportunity to clear his name here with two hands. Mr Van Avermaet, do not hide behind the judicial investigation. Of course, you must not go into detail, but if you are not to be blamed, say it openly. Let us and the citizens know that everything is going to be fine and that there has been no fraudulent practice in the past. The country needs that. The more than 30,000 employees of bpost and all those who receive their mail and packages every day in these difficult corona times need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u86	It is hallucinating how Mr Van Avermaet continues to be held above his head. If an employee did business like that in a company, he'd be fired ten times. I'm sure of it. The efforts made throughout the corona crisis by the thousands of workers crown them heroes of the crisis. They delivered from the mail day in and day out. We are now asking that these people be given a premium, such as the German postal workers, who have received 5% of the premium. They deserve that raise and not that situation with Mr Van Avermaet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u87	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for several years now the relationship between banks and their customers has changed. It is known that banks are encouraging more and more customers to use their mobile or smartphone to carry out their banking operations. It is known that in ten years 3,000 banking agencies have closed in this country and that the number of employees has decreased by 55%. On the other hand, it is known that the cost of some paper-related operations has increased significantly. All this results from the phenomenon of digitalisation, which is a good thing for a number of citizens because of the significant saving of time generated. However, for many of our fellow citizens, especially the elderly, this transition to digitalization is difficult. Only 27% of people over the age of 70 use the Internet for their banking operations. In addition, the digital divide in our society affects one fifth of families with low incomes. For these people, digitalisation is not synonymous with emancipation; it is, on the contrary, synonymous with a loss of financial autonomy, longer travel and higher costs for their operations. A recent Financité study carried out in collaboration with Énéo and Espace Seniors indicated that none of the 13 banks surveyed had established a service that was truly suitable for these seniors or for people with digital difficulties. Minister, what is your reaction to the fact that banks do nothing or practically nothing to promote the banking inclusion of seniors and people excluded from digital literacy? What action has this government taken to improve seniors' access to banking services?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u88	Mr Delizée, thank you for the question. The digitization of our society is growing, including in the financial sector. It is important that sufficient attention be paid to this group of people who, for various reasons, do not have access to digital equipment or are unable to work with it. Several banks are already organizing information sessions for their customers to familiarize them with digital applications. In addition, local authorities and CPAS regularly organize information sessions for the elderly. However, I am sure that additional measures can certainly be useful not only for cooperation with the sector but also for close cooperation with federated entities and local authorities as well as with voluntary organisations. At the end of November 2019, a consultation took place in my office with representatives of the National Higher Council of Persons with Disabilities (CSNPH) and Febelfin on the accessibility of banking services. One of Febelfin's requests was the establishment of a list of key issues for the accessibility of banks and ticket distributors. This is why the CSNPH organised a survey on its website from 9 December 2019 to 15 January 2020. An overview of the responses was sent to Febelfin on March 5. Concertation is still under way. Mr Delizée, it is important that this issue be taken into account in the context of discussions on the formation of a new government. In the last few days, I myself, in the working group on consumer protection, have introduced this issue into the negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u89	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I would like to point out that in 2003 a law on basic banking was adopted for consumers on the initiative of the Socialist Group. Time has passed. This system should be modernised and certainly updated, but it is not the work that has been undertaken in recent years, unfortunately. Older persons have not been taken into account to improve their access to banking services. On the contrary, under the previous legislature, your predecessor worked more on the basic banking service to businesses. When we say undertakings, it is not a secret, I think that it was in part the diamond sector which was covered by this mechanism and by a law which must come one day or the other. We're talking about seniors here, about our elders. I will conclude with a positive final score on your conclusion. I think we need to do something and I hope that in the next few years we will catch up and work on it, which has not been done in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u90	Mr President, Madam Minister, the GREVIO report, which assesses the implementation of the Istanbul Convention, was released this Monday, as you certainly know. It provides an overview of the fight against violence against women in Belgium. A series of specific shortcomings were pointed out, such as the lack of support for victims and perpetrators, the lack of training on the front lines, particularly in the police and the judiciary, the lack of cross-cuttingity between the various entities in the country, and the lack of data collection on violence against women. The conclusion is clear: Belgium is not doing enough to combat violence against women, and this is not new. Approximately 40,000 complaints per year are registered in Belgium for acts of domestic violence. 118 cases of femicides have been identified by the association since 2017; and confinement has further aggravated this situation. Minister, I know you're sensitive to the question. Next Thursday, a new government should be put in place. What are your recommendations to the future minister in charge of this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u91	Mrs Schlitz, thank you for the question. This report is the result of the first evaluation procedure concerning Belgium. A series of useful recommendations emerge from this report. First of all, the experts commend the work carried out by the establishment of centres for dealing with sexual violence. These centres accommodate victims and offer medical, forensic and psychological support and follow-up. The experts recommend that the number of such centres be increased to cover the entire territory. This summer, the Council of Ministers gave its green light for a necessary extension to ten centres. The Federal Council of Ministers also approved the establishment of a centre of expertise on sexual violence. The centre will collect scientific information and make it available to the care centres. The GREVIO report can also help us to set the necessary priorities in the next National Action Plan to Combat Gender-Based Violence, which my services are currently preparing so that it can be submitted to the next government. This plan will provide for better registration of crimes, including those relating to the gender dimension; also the pursuit of a multidisciplinary, holistic approach, better collection of gender statistics, better training of the professionals concerned, greater attention to risk assessment and better protection of victims. New forms of violence also deserve increased attention, such as cyber-harassment. With regard to the recommendations on criminal policy, several initiatives are already under way, such as improving perceptions and disaggregating judicial statistics by sex. I am also referring to the new front-line risk assessment and spousal violence instrument, which the new circular implemented on January 1, 2020. As you know, the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Women's Rights is also continuing its work on the recommendations of Grevio.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u92	Thank you for that constructive response. Some measures have already been taken, but they must be extended for years to come. I really appeal to the negotiators and colleagues in this House to make this a real priority in the coming years. This is an issue that must be dealt with in a cross-cutting manner by all ministers. There must be real leadership at the federal level to ensure that decisions are coordinated across the country and that there is no disparity between the North and the South in the follow-up to abuse cases. I therefore appeal to the negotiators to do everything possible to continue Mrs Muylle's work, but also to go further towards the adoption of a genuine inter-federal plan to combat violence against women.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u93	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u94	I propose that you devote one discussion to these two bills. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two draft laws. [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u95	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Reccino Van Lommel and Mr Patrick Prévot. They shall refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, protecting consumers is very important and necessary. It is the task of politicians, especially in Parliament, to protect consumers, not so much because it is a question of transposing a European directive, but simply because it is necessary. First of all, I should like to say that we found it particularly strange that this bill was soon to be put on the agenda of the Economic Affairs Committee, but that the opinion of the Council of State was already adopted on 7 May. We believe that this is a strange way of doing things and want to insist on a different way of working in the future. Although Minister Muylle partially reassured us during her explanatory statement, the Flemish interest still remains concerned. With regard to these draft laws, the Council of State spoke very clearly about an invasive administrative prosecution measure. We were partly reassured by the amendment tabled by a number of colleagues, which was finally adopted because we are absolutely not a fan of mystery shopping. We were pleased that this amendment made it very clear that the power cannot be used simply in any situation or during any investigation and that there must be sufficient elements that require the exercise of those specific powers. Moreover, the Minister has also clearly indicated that entrepreneurs would be notified in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u97	It is said that this is a very exceptional measure which would be applied in a number of specific cases, but we are still under the impression that a number of black lists will continue to circulate. What if the administration takes improper action, such as closing websites? Then who will eventually pay for the damage? What about the economic damage that would result from this? Nevertheless, we agree with the underlying reason and the principle of these draft laws and will therefore vote in favour of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we want to support these two bills, which provide more stringent arrangements for consumers. Indeed, in our view, they have at least three advantages. First, they strengthen the means and sanctions against fraud of all kinds. This is essential to ensure better consumer protection in the face of the questionable practices of certain companies. This is all the more so as the various scandals of recent years have shown us how ready companies are to do anything to increase their profits. I am thinking in particular of the scandals of horse meat or Dieselgate. Such practices must stop, because in the name of their economic logic - that is, the race for profit - they are human lives that they endanger. Secondly, by fighting more effectively against fraudsters, we favour companies that really play the game. They are too often penalized by the unfair practices of large companies, which are willing to do anything to break prices. The result of the races: it is consumers who are penalized, but also workers, who suffer the indirect consequences. Finally, this bill allows us to confront a problem that is not likely to diminish over time. I want to talk about online fraud. The figures in this regard do not lie. Without stricter regulations in this area, there is a risk of widespread criminal behaviour. The legislation is therefore moving in the right direction. For all these reasons, we will support the two texts before us, although - as it should be stressed - much remains to be done to combat the intolerable practices of certain companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u99	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u100	We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 1385. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1385/7) We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 1385. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1385/7) The bill has 123 articles. The draft law has 123 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u101	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 1386. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1386/5) We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 1386. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1386/5) The title has been amended by the committee to "draft law organizing the procedure for appeal against the administrative fine referred to in Book XV, Title 1/2, of the Code of Economic Law". The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law regulating the appeal procedure against the administrative fine referred to in Book XV, Title 1/2, of the Code of Economic Law." The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u102	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u103	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Eliane Tillieux, Patrick Prévot, Hervé Rigot, Malik Ben Achour, Ahmed Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u104	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u105	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u106	Mr President, the explosions in the port of Beirut had dramatic consequences for citizens, for the economy, but also, of course, for health care, both human and infrastructure. In the affected part of the city there happened to be several hospitals, which were also highly regarded. The hospital Saint George, a university hospital in particular, was severely affected. This, of course, has an impact on the training that is being given there. This bill aims to open up the possibility of giving doctors and specialists in training, who, due to the events, no longer have an internship in Beirut, a temporary internship in Belgium, so that they can go through part of their training in our hospitals. The level of medical training in Beirut and Lebanon is high. In this sense, such traineeships will at least not be a problem in terms of level of education. It is important for our group that the use of additional doctors in training is not at the expense of our own training courses or our own doctors in training, and that this is a temporary measure. The fact that internships are free to deal with the possibility of using Beirut trainees, as well as the limitations in time, is important. After all, the present regime will cease to exist in two years' time. However, we had reservations about the original bill, which did not specify that doctors from the affected hospitals should be involved. However, this point has been corrected after amendment. That is why our group will support the bill, which will help a city that has been severely affected and will allow doctors to undergo a limited part of their clinical training in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u107	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express my sincere thanks to Mrs Tillieux for the bill presented. As is well known, on 4 August 2020 Lebanon was hit by a terrible explosion: 2,700 tons of nitrate destroyed more than a third of the city, killed 200 people, including 2 Belgian nationals, and put 300,000 people on the street. I will not dwell on the multiple consequences of this disaster, since the bill that will be put to the vote here focuses on the medical aspect. Again, I thank Mrs Tillieux because it is important to be able to realize that there is a wealth in medical and cultural practice to create links in an emergency humanitarian framework, as proposed by law. But this proposal is not just a symbol and, as discussed in the Committee on the Interior, Parliament has arrangements to make with regard to this disaster in Lebanon. An independent international investigation must be requested by Belgium. I would also like to thank Minister Goffin because that is already the case. The question of the reconstruction of both the hospitals and the city centre of Beirut will have to attract our attention because private real estate developers are ready to go and devour the potential markets. But the Beirutins are asking for their specificities to be preserved. It should also be recalled - as the staff of Beirut hospitals often say - that health care is confronted with the reality of the phenomenon of migration in Lebanon. Lebanon has a population of 1.5 million and receives more than 1 million refugees, when Europe sometimes struggles to show solidarity. As Belgian parliamentarians, we must also be able to work towards a more just global migration policy, when we see the weight that the Lebanese and the Beirutins must bear. Another big thank you, Mrs Tillieux, for this bill which the Ecolo-Groen Group will of course support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, on 4 August last a terrible double explosion ravaged Beirut, the Lebanese capital. Four days later, our country chartered an aircraft containing emergency medical equipment and humanitarian equipment for the victims of the disaster. The record is heavy: dozens of deaths and thousands of injuries are to be deplored. Whole neighbourhoods of the capital are devastated, leaving tens of thousands homeless, destroying other basic structures such as schools and hospitals. In these hospitals were trained doctors who, today, no longer have the opportunity to continue their apprenticeships within the internship services that they received. Thanks to the text that I have the pleasure of presenting to you today, we will allow, as early as January next, our universities which wish to do so - and the request is very much present - to welcome these Lebanese doctors, by temporarily authorizing the training of two additional candidates per internship service, whereas the capacity is now limited to one candidate. As you know, this possibility for doctors from a non-EU country to undergo clinical training in Belgium already exists in our legislation. The conditions of the limited training referred to here will be perfectly identical to those already provided for in the law under the health care professions. Opening these internship places for humanitarian reasons and ensuring that these doctors in Beirut hospitals continue to receive quality training are essential. I would like to recall how important this cooperation is in terms of the exchange of medical practices. The idea is to ensure that these foreign doctors can return home with a complementary professional background that will benefit the health care of their country of origin, but also that Belgian candidates in vocational training feed and enrich their knowledge through these contacts. Let me conclude by recalling that the history of collaboration between our two countries is long. Solidarity with the Lebanese people must be an important element of the international policy of our country and of the European Union, all the more so in the current context of the explosion, made even more difficult by the health crisis. This text must therefore be seen as a new contribution to our assistance to Lebanon. I would like to thank all colleagues who have accepted the urgency of our text before voting unanimously in favour of its adoption.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, almost two months ago in Beirut there were not just one explosion but two explosions. The first one took care of that famous ominous cloud of smoke. A second, more infamous and more powerful explosion soon followed, which we have all seen on social media or on television. An explosion of 2,750 tons of ammonium nitrate, producing an equivalent 1.1 kiloton of TNT, resulted in a crater of no less than 43 meters deep. The consequences of this were incalculable. The complete destruction of the very wide area with around 200 dead and over 6,500 injured. Anyone who has seen the images can only speak of a material disaster and a humanitarian disaster. This can't leave anyone unmoved. Let's face it, this shouldn't leave anyone unmoved. This was also evident in the international aid which was almost instant. It was offered by the United States, England, the Netherlands, Israel and a number of other countries. They all put their humanitarian money in the bag. After three days of palavering and discussing whether or not to send the B-FAST team, our country sent a cargo plane with emergency supplies and urgent medical equipment to meet the urgent need. On top of that, our country also released EUR 5 million for urgent medical aid and, if I am not mistaken, another EUR 1 million for the Red Cross. So we cannot say that our country has remained on the sidelines and left it alone with statements of support. No, we've done a few things, too. It is true that some Lebanese doctors trained by the disaster will not be able to complete their training immediately. But whether the temporary extension of access to clinical training in our country is the solution is another question. I dare, with all due respect, to doubt that. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to ask you a few questions. Of course, we as Flemish Interest understand the very sincere intentions of this bill, and we even subscribe to it. But the question is whether it's all a bit of symbolic legislation. The question is whether we, as a Parliament, do not want to ease our consciences with this legislative proposal. How many sods will this bill really put on the table? To say it with a little sense of exaggeration, I leave this to your imagination in the depths of your thoughts. We can also have a number of practical concerns, such as potential language barriers, the quality of the training, the content of the training which may differ from what exists here or the difficulties that students themselves might encounter in finding and finding an internship. We have a number of reservations about this kind of conscientious objector legislation. However, as I said earlier, we also subscribe to the very good intentions of this proposal, to the good intentions of the authors of this proposal. That is why we shall be voting in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 4 August Beirut and its port suffered the unlikely. All of us have been and remain appalled by the horror images that followed, images that are nothing near the reality on the spot. As we know, the record of human and material damage is considerable for the Lebanese capital. Unfortunately, this explosion has devastated entire neighbourhoods of the city, leaving thousands of people homeless. The disaster also hit heavily in the wake of schools and hospitals in the capital. The words of former Secretary-General of the United Nations and Nobel Peace Prize laureate Kofi Annam are particularly resounding in this 70-year anniversary week of the creation of the United Nations: "The only way that offers some hope for a better future for all humanity is through cooperation and partnership." For the MR, international cooperation has always been paramount. In this context of humanitarian crisis, it was therefore important to show our support and solidarity. It was in this spirit that the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence dispatched a C-130 transport aircraft to Beirut with emergency medical and humanitarian equipment for the victims of the explosions. We wanted to amend the bill to ensure that the medical candidates targeted by this proposal are primarily doctors in training at the two hospitals in Beirut. With the adoption of this proposal, which we are proud to support, doctors in training will be able to continue their training and, therefore, practice again in their country, starting in September 2022. Since the September academic year has already taken place, it should also be noted that, for practical reasons, the calendar of administrative procedures has been adjusted so that the start of the internship can be set at 1 January 2021. We are convinced that this cooperation and solidarity with medical candidates will help to build bridges between our universities and those in Beirut as well as future collaborations between our two countries. It seems to me important, as my colleague Mrs Tillieux said, to stress that this bill was voted unanimously in the Health Committee on Tuesday. As we know, the texts voted unanimously are rather rare. This demonstrates the importance of humanitarian support to Beirut and to the trainees referred to in the text. I would also like to reiterate the importance of cooperation in the exchange of medical practice. The crisis of VOCID-19 only confirms the importance of North-South cooperation. Training doctors who then return to their countries with an undeniable added value will benefit health care in their countries of origin, particularly in African countries. North-South cooperation is a success and we take this opportunity to recall it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u111	Mr President, I shall speak briefly because the drama of Lebanon has already been widely discussed by previous speakers. I agree with what has been said on this subject. The initiative in question is good, and we support it. Of course, two things will have to be taken care of. On the one hand, this must be in keeping with the reality of the needs of the Lebanese doctors involved in training; indeed, they must rotate in the various hospitals. This point has not yet been clarified, but it is important that it be clarified at the operational level in the interests of efficiency. On the other hand, it must be ensured that, at the level of the services concerned, the number of doctors who will be there does not undermine the quality of training. This remains, in my view, a major issue in the context of specialization for our doctors and for Lebanese doctors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u112	Mr President, as my colleagues have pointed out enough, Lebanon has been entangled in a social and economic crisis for too long, and to which has been added the crisis of coronavirus. For the Lebanese, this deadly explosion that hit Beirut on August 4 was too much drama. Today, almost two months after this disaster, the injuries resulting from this explosion remain blissful. They will certainly take years to heal. In this context, it is certain that any proactive approach that would come from both the international community and our country must be able to be supported, especially in a region of the world that remains in search of stability. It is therefore logical that my group will support this bill. I am proud that my country finally took the initiative to allow Lebanese doctors who were trained in the two hospitals that were destroyed on 4 August to continue their internships here in Belgium in one of our hospitals. I would also like to thank the authors of this text. I hope that this text will not only strengthen the resilience of the Lebanese, whom they have already shown much to date in the face of the present and future challenges they face and will have to face, but will also encourage other States to strengthen their solidarity with the cedar country and thus help it to meet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u113	Belgium was never in lack of solidarity with Lebanon when it faced enormous difficulties. That's a certainty. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u114	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1514/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1514/5) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u115	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u116	The next item is the counting of the ballot for the appointment of Mr. Pieter-Alexander De Brock's first alternate, an effective Dutch-speaking member of the Standing Committee on the Review of Intelligence and Security Services. The next item is the vote on the appointment of the first alternate of Mr Pieter-Alexander De Brock, a member of the Standing Committee on Security and Intelligence. Nominations were announced in plenary on 24 October 2019. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 24 October 2019. On 18 November 2019 and 14 September 2020, the special committee responsible for parliamentary accompaniment of the P and R Committees held a hearing of the candidates. Ms Cécile Thibaut reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 16 September 2020. On 18 November 2019 and 14 September 2020 the candidates were heard by the special committee responsible for the parliamentary supervision of Committees P and I. Mrs Cécile Thibaut reported on this hearing at the Conference of Presidents of 16 September 2020. The document containing the names of the candidates has been distributed to you (878/2). The piece with the candidate list was delivered to you (878/2). In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 17 September 2020, members were able to vote from Friday 18 September 2020 to today 2 p.m. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 17 September 2020, Members were able to vote from Friday 18 September 2020 until today at 2 p.m. The two youngest members present are invited to attend the counting of the ballot. This will now take place in Room 3. The two youngest members present are invited to attend the vote. This will now take place in Room 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u117	Voters 108 Stemmen White or invalid 8 Blank or invalid Valid 100 Geldig Absolute majority 51 Perfect majority M. Peter De Smet a obtenu 1 voix. Mr Peter De Smet received one vote. Linda Schweiger obtained 80 votes. Mrs Linda Schweiger received 80 votes. Mme Caroline Vanderkerken a obtenu 1 voix. Mrs. Caroline Vanderkerken received one vote. Mr. Wauter Van Laethem obtained 18 votes. Mr Wauter Van Laethem received 18 votes. Ms. Linda Schweiger, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared the first alternate of Mr. Pieter-Alexander De Brock, an effective Dutch-speaking member of the Standing Committee on the Review of Intelligence and Security Services. Ms Linda Schweiger, who had received the absolute majority, has been appointed first alternate to Mr Pieter-Alexander De Brock, a Dutch-speaking member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. I propose that you appoint the second alternate during the plenary session on 8 October 2020. I propose that the second alternate be appointed at the plenary session of 8 October 2020. In view of the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: - Members may vote from Friday 2 October 2020 until Thursday 8 October 2020 at 4 p.m. The ballot paper and parliamentary document No. 878/2 are available to them in the General Secretariat. I would remind you that only members can receive the ballot paper, it must be completed on the spot and deposited in the ballot box. - The vote containing the ballot papers will be opened during the plenary session on Thursday, 8 October 2020. Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: - Members may vote from Friday 2 October 2020 until Thursday 8 October 2020 at 4 p.m. The ballot and the parliamentary document No. 878/2 are at the disposal of the General Secretariat. I would remind you that only Members can receive the ballot, fill it in on the spot and deposit it in the ballot box. - The urn with the ballots will be opened at the plenary session on Thursday 8 October 2020. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u118	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 September 2020, I propose to extend the mandate of the experts of the Special Commission on the Independent State of the Congo (1885-1908) and the colonial past of Belgium in the Congo (1908-1960), Rwanda and Burundi (1919-1962), its consequences and the appropriate follow-up until 30 November 2020. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 September 2020, I propose to extend until 30 November 2020 the mandate of the Special Committee's experts responsible for the investigation of the Congo Free State (1885-1908) and the Belgian colonial past in Congo (1908-1960), Rwanda and Burundi (1919-1962), its impact and its consequences. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u119	The PVDA-PTB Group has sent me the candidature of Steven De Vuyst as an alternate member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE-PA), replacing Nadia Moscufo. The PVDA-PTB Group has given me the candidacy of Mr Steven De Vuyst as an alternate member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (PA-OSCE), in place of Mrs Nadia Moscufo. Since there are no other candidates, there is no vote, in accordance with Rule 157(6) of the Rules of Procedure, and I declare Mr Steven De Vuyst elected as an alternate member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE-PA). Since there are no other candidates, Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure requires no vote and I declare Mr Steven De Vuyst elected as an alternate member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (PA-OSCE).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u120	By letter of 21 September 2020, the Parliament of the Brussels-Capital Region shall make known that it has been constituted. By letter dated 21 September 2020, the Brussels-Capital Parliament informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u121	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. They are sent to the appropriate committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u122	Mrs Kitir, you are asking for the urgency of the bill No. 1528/1 amending the Royal Decree of 13 May 2020 introducing a grant "COVID-19' for the target group of public social welfare centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u123	Mr President, the corona crisis has caused a lot of people to see their incomes fall. As a result, many people will have to ask for support from the OMCW. The federal government had allocated €125 million to the OMCWs. The deadline was 31 December. However, the crisis will not be over by 31 December. The OCMW's are asking to be able to use that amount both this year and next year, so to spread the amount. This bill will extend the period until 31 December next year. We are asking for urgency because this extension must be approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u124	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u125	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 128 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u126	(For all the votes, Mr Kristof Calvo, Mr André Flahaut and Mr Dieter Vanbesien voted as their group did.) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u127	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u128	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u129	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. Colleagues, I can tell you that we have received unofficial confirmation from the Secretariat-General of the European Parliament that we can allow the session to take place there. It is unofficial, because we have to consider how everything can be practical, with regard to the security services and so on. In principle, the Secretariat-General of the European Parliament agrees. It's not about the three days. It is only about the reading of the declaration of government on 1 October. I will return this to the Conference of Presidents at the beginning of next week. Let us wait and see what else this will do. In this way, the reading of the government statement can be attended by all elected MPs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u130	Mr President, was it unofficially allowed for one day or did you only ask for one day?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-24-55-plenair-ip056x.u131	It's unofficial for one day. The other days are not possible. We cannot meet there for three days. It would certainly not be a problem for Thursday 1 October. All other questions will be dealt with in the next few days. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Thursday 1 October 2020 at 14.15 a.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, October 1, 2020 at 2:15 p.m.
