ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u1	Written copies of the Minister's presentation are available.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u2	Madam President, my question largely lapses in view of the explanatory statement already made by the Minister for the Budget. If additional information is available in the meantime, it is welcome, but I thank the Minister for his explanation last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u3	Mr Loones, is the same true of your colleague Van der Donckt, who is not present at the moment? [[Oui]] Mr. Laaouej, would you like to ask your question?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u4	Madam President, in my view, it is best to hear, first of all, the introductory statement by the Deputy Prime Minister. After that, we may be able to interact.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u5	Of course! Wisely, in peace and discipline.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u6	Good morning, everyone. I propose to go through the slides together, which I will read in French but which will be broadcast in Dutch and which will also be at your disposal. I have endeavoured to offer you as current a summary as possible of the special provision VOCID-19, which consists of two tranches of one billion euros. The figures were finalized by 12 June. I also included in the second part of my presentation the two superkern – pass me the expression! – and their potential impact on the provision. One part of my presentation was scheduled for 12 June, the other part also includes projections based, among other things, on the decisions and proposals adopted at the two meetings mentioned above. The VOCID-19 provision therefore consists of two billion euros, one billion of which is still to be approved by Parliament and which is currently used only for federal public services (FPS), federal public programming services (FPS) and federal departments, as well as for expenditures by federal public administrative agencies and self-accounting administrative services (SACA). I have compiled an updated table for each CPS. You will find that €3,080,000 is spent on commitments to the Chancery. The amounts relating to liquidation are also shown. Similarly, Justice is awarded €975,000, the Interior €1,048,000, Foreign Affairs €3,102,000, Defence €47,700 000, the Police €1,037,000, Social Security €3,400,000, Public Health €820 million, Economy €7,157 000 and, finally, Social Integration €19,062,000. The total, which was arrested on 12 June, amounts to 906 million euros. What has been the use and use of these means? Priority was given to expenditure on protection of the population: Crisis Centre, information centre, medical equipment; and in a second phase, the emphasis was on support and prevention measures: food aid, shelter for homeless people, study on the spread of VOCID-19, purchase of medicines. The Chancery has conducted a federal campaign to fight coronavirus. The appropriations granted of EUR 3 080 000 and EUR 1 561 000 have already been consumed by 3 June 2020. These funds were granted for the financing of the communication linked to VOCID-19: advertising, news programmes in the press, on television, etc. As far as the Inland FPS is concerned, there is mainly the Crisis Centre. The appropriations granted are EUR 1,048,000, of which EUR 411,000 have already been consumed. The resources have been allocated to enable the Crisis Centre to carry out its monitoring and information missions, to set up a call centre, and to cover the costs associated with it. For the FPS Foreign Affairs, in particular for SACA Consular Affairs, appropriations were granted in the amount of EUR 3,102 000. Current consumption is zero for FPS Foreign Affairs. On the other hand, for SACA, consumption amounted to EUR 4 020 000 at the end of April. Consumption is higher than the appropriations provided. This will require an increase in appropriations. These resources were mainly granted for the repatriation of Belgians abroad. For the SPP Social integration, the receptions of the homeless, there is the extension of the winter reception. The appropriations are EUR 852,000. Consumption is already €852,000 in commitment and €639,000 in liquidation. To ensure the support measures for CPAS, up to EUR 15 million was granted, of which EUR 12 million was in liquidation. There is also €3 million for food aid and €241,000 for support for seasonal work. For the moment, the actual consumption is 0 euro but the royal decrees are being published. For the Social Security FPS, the Voluntary Compensation Fund receives €400,000 in funding. The Royal Decree is also being published. For the Kenniscentrum, the Centre of Expertise (KCE), €3 million has been allocated and actual consumption is zero, since the launch of the contracts is under consideration. Credit is granted to participate in the European study on VOCID-19, including the launch of a national study. For the Justice FPS, the ICT services and DG PPE, the appropriations granted are EUR 975,000. Consumption on 3 June 2020 is €434,000. These are mainly hydro-alcoholic gel, protective equipment and ICT equipment to allow the widespread introduction of telework and the adaptation of the Cross-Border platform. As far as the acquisition of protective equipment is concerned, this is obviously the lion's share. The acquisition of protective equipment was allocated to three jurisdictions for the following expenditures. The SPF Economy bought 22 million filters. The Defence purchased 18 million masks and the Public Health FPS purchased 820 million euros worth of equipment. I have prepared a small table that explains in more detail the material used by the Public Health FPS. The cost of masks and protective equipment is EUR 540 million (EUR 476 million was committed and EUR 390 million liquidated). In addition, Defence has entered into a contract for the purchase of equipment for €290 million. It was an existing defence framework market that we used for €200 million. But today, only 40 million are committed and 28 million are liquidated. With regard to the purchase of medicines, $40 million has been earmarked. At present, €20,822 million is committed and €18 million is liquidated. The testing has received 25 million credits, of which 23 million are committed and 12 million are liquidated. There is also an amount of EUR 10 500 million for the air transport of masks. I explain to you: in certain markets, the cost of masks means transport included. In other markets, aircraft must be sent to transport masks. The amount I have just mentioned is intended to cover the cost of these flights. But usually the cost of transportation is included in the price. In any event, EUR 10 500 million has been committed for the airlift of masks. An amount of EUR 4 million is intended for the task force on miscellaneous expenditure. I will come back to the matter in more detail earlier. That's for the headlines! I have then broken down the expenditure by heading. You can see that the purchase of masks represents 56% of the expense. Then there is the purchase of gloves and protective clothing, which accounts for 36%, the purchase of testing equipment at 4%, the purchase of chemicals, medicines at 3%, and the purchase of miscellaneous products at 1%. There are several kinds of masks: FFP2, LK95 and surgical masks. The Public Health FPS ordered more than 377 million masks, amounting to 338 million euros. These masks were mainly purchased in China (49%) and Belgium (46%). When you buy in Belgium, this does not mean that masks are necessarily produced in Belgium. This means that Belgian companies have had the market. They may be supplied in Vietnam, India or China. NATO accounts for 5%. We also had the opportunity to benefit from a market in NATO countries, which buy products. We have sometimes used this NATO framework market for equipment. But it is NATO suppliers that provide. We don't know how to identify them today, but the market is 5%. You then have the details of the masks we bought. Purchases of surgical masks represent 79% in Belgium and 4% in China. In summary, it can be said that surgical masks were purchased mainly from Belgian companies. Surgical masks were also purchased through the NATO framework market. FFP2 masks were purchased through German companies and Belgian companies. You have the details by color. In the case of gloves and protective clothing, 65% of this equipment was purchased in Belgium, 25% in China, 4% in the Netherlands, 3% through the NATO market, and 1% in the United States. We also bought a little in Malaysia, Canada, Panama, France, etc. On pharmaceuticals, orders were placed for 21 million euros by the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products. I'm not going to give you the details of all the drugs. I thank you, but know that 43% were bought in Belgium, 29% in China, 15% in Ukraine, 4% in Israel, 3% in the Netherlands, 1% in Germany, Croatia, Hungary, Ireland and even a little bit in Romania. As regards testing equipment, orders were placed for 21 million euros: 40% of orders came from Italy, 25% from China, 12% from Korea, 12% from China and 11% from the United States. Included under this heading are ancillary expenditure arising from the management of the crisis amounting to EUR 3,788,000, of which approximately 2 million in consultancy costs. The government was assisted by consulting companies, including the procurement team. Purchases have been made all over the world. Some consultants were used to find the products to be found quickly: Deloitte Consulting for 1.2 million euros, SOLVINT Supply Management for 159 000 euros, YQ Purchasing for 98 000 euros, Cronos Groep for 96,000 euros, Purson for 77 000 and EMAX for 69 000 euros. At the federal police, one million euros had also been made available for the purchase of masks for the agents, but the market could not be realized because another technique was used for the supply of this equipment. So it was through the defence market that the police got their equipment. This EUR 1 million appropriation is unlikely to be consumed. That is for the firm and definitive measures of 12 June. Now I'm going to tell you about the future, which obviously involves a lot of conjecture. With BOSA (Beleid en Ondersteuning/Strategy and Support) and other services, we tried to quantify the pending expenses. Two expanded kerns were held on 6 and 13 June, respectively, and made several decisions that we charged in this provision. It is important to know that some of them are not integrated. Thus, when we opt for an extension of temporary unemployment or bridge law, these choices are not included in the provision, but are taken over by the ONEM or INASTI in their own appropriations. So here we are talking only about superkern decisions. We decided to grant a cheque of 50 euros for six months to beneficiaries of social integration income. According to our estimates, it will cost 42 million euros. For people with disabilities, we have estimated the likely cost at €56 million, while it will reach €27 million for GRAPA beneficiaries. In addition, a decision is being taken to grant citizens 10 free journeys via SNCB. We have named this measure the Rail Pass. Even if it may not be quite that name, the mechanism will remain the same. According to SNCB, this measure would cost EUR 110 million. I am just repeating this estimate, which is due only to this undertaking. The 15% increase in federal government intervention for RIS beneficiaries represents €21 million. An amount of EUR 100 million is foreseen for aid to the CPAS (superkern decision of 13 June) and an amount of EUR 10 million for support to the CPAS in order to carry out their tasks. As far as hospitals are concerned, the cost of first-line aid to hospitals for a period of three months (March to June 2020) is estimated at EUR 185 million. For the possible renewal of this aid, we have also provided EUR 150 million. Other expenses are anticipated. I'll deliver them to you in bulk. For Fedasil, there is a need to adapt the buildings to accommodate asylum seekers in accordance with the rules for preventing the spread of VOCID-19; this would amount to €45 million. The Public Health FPS plans to set up a systematic testing system for €84 million. At the Chancellery level, a grant of €20 million is granted to two universities to carry out a study. An amount of EUR 50 million is foreseen to finance applications from the various SPFs and public administrative bodies. It's an envelope in the envelope, if you'll allow me to express it. This will enable us to deal with a variety of requests that are not yet made, but which can be feared. We have therefore provided $50 million in the $2 billion envelope for potential miscellaneous expenditures in the organizations. There are still three million for communication requested by the Chancellery and 2.3 million for protection equipment for civil protection (Inner SPF). Also under the VOCID, Fedasil has also requested $6 million for the acquisition of sanitary containers, maintenance products, isolation of affected or suspected applicants. The Defense wanted 1.5 million for the distribution of 15 million masks ordered by citizens via pharmacies. Therefore, these means were not claimed by the Defence; this is indeed the remuneration of pharmacies for the distribution of masks. We also have 12 million studies for the KCE. Also in the field of public health, 4 million for the establishment of an ICT platform for testing and 8 million for ambulance services. For the Social Integration PPS, we have 3 million for food and hygiene aid, and 0.8 million to maintain winter reception until October 31, 2020. In terms of the envelope, we therefore have a first part closed on 12 June and I can tell you that the whole of this envelope amounts to 903 million euros in liquidation. In the second part of my presentation, we have potential expenditures of $992 million. In short, we are almost 1.9 billion if we inject all this data. But as you can see, almost half of the figure concerns forecasts of measures which have not yet been decided and which need to be refined. But at least you know what's hovering over that $2 billion envelope. I am at your disposal to try to answer your questions in more detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for this explanation, which gives us some more information on the use of resources. I'm a little freaked out by the big cost of the mouth masks. You provide for a total amount of more than EUR 400 million. Could you give me a little more explanation about that? Then I have a question about other expenditure of non-significant amounts. For Deloitte Consulting you provide 1.2 million. Could you give us some more details on that? Does this have to do with the contact tracing that is or is not going well at the moment? Is your summary table still dealing with the first billion, or is that the second billion already? Page 2 contains a commitment of 906 million and a liquidation of 903 million. Is that related to the first disc or is that also the second disc in it? Thank you for the more detailed explanation, which is yet again sobering and sobering on expenditure on protection measures. In that context, for testing, you still provide a relatively small amount, of almost 22 million, of orders placed. From a scientific point of view, it has been called for several months to roll out large-scale testing. You estimate the cost of that at 22 million. However, the masks and the like cost almost 400 million. That's a huge discrepancy. Could you clarify this further? I also have a question about the Standard Multi, the former Rail Pass, but it will be discussed later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u8	Mr Minister, thank you for this transparency exercise, which we have also asked for and which is particularly useful. Most of the expenditure announced here has been the subject of consultations or even political decisions to which we have been associated in one way or another. However, I have a few questions to ask you, starting with a general question on the application of the rules on public procurement during this somewhat special period when the slogan was the urgency. Did your firm and administration pay particular attention to compliance or, on the contrary, did we have to compete less often than in normal times? Was a form of special powers regime introduced during this period? In connection with the above, I would like to go back to the table you are referring to in terms of consultancy fees, which are nevertheless quite high. You are announcing an amount of €3.78 million, including about €2 million for the consultation to support the government and the medical equipment procurement team. This means that an amount of about EUR 2 million was spent solely on public procurement, and I do not explain the usefulness of this consultation. Could you give me more details in this regard? If my calculations are good, the total consultancy fee is significantly lower than the €3.78 million you mention in your table. So where does the difference come from, and what is the detail of these expenditures? I come back to the table on the purchase of masks, the amounts of which are pharaonic: half a billion mask purchases in a stressed market environment, with rising prices internationally. I would just like to recall that the strategic stock of masks has not been renewed because of its cost, which was five times less than the masks purchased much more expensive in the emergency. This clearly illustrates that there are sometimes false savings. Trying to compress budgets at all costs puts us at risk. Of course, no one could fully predict this crisis, although recommendations had been made following the H1N1 influenza. These would have been, I think, very usefully met by the government. But I think that this will be the subject of questions for the special committee, which I hope will soon be set up. Finally, I will return to two amounts. First of all, the amount of EUR 110 million entered for free-tracks. You said that these figures were provided by SNCB. It is quite normal that there should be a dialogue between the government and the SNCB and that there should be a compensation from SNCB for this service that is requested. I would like to know more about how this compensation is calculated for SNCB. Is that a lump sum? Is there, behind this, a formal proposal put on the table by SNCB? Finally, at the request of the Chancellery, you overflew grants at two universities quite quickly, but you did not tell us the purpose of these studies or what these two universities were. However, this indication could be useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u9	Minister, thank you. The amounts are obviously pharminose for products that are not usually consumed. Necessity is law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u10	Madam President, I would like to ask my question. 55007136C add to this debate at once. Thank you, Minister, for the clarity that is particularly useful in times when we are faced with budget deficits. The provisional appropriations have today become budgets for three or four months. Provisional appropriations traditionally mean that the amounts of the previous year are shared by twelve and then the monthly amount is obtained. Now there are two phenomena. Firstly, a lot of adjustments are being made and they are substantial. Secondly, there is the interdepartmental commission. It has arisen in the past and this is an extra, from which one can draw on exceptional things. In the past it was terrorism and now it is COOVID. However, I do miss the regular budgetary controls. A budget includes regular budgetary control, normally in March. Then it is decided to spend more somewhere, to look at the consequences and the corrective measures to be taken, to see where savings can be made. You are inciting clarity and transparency to Parliament, and I appreciate that. Is there some kind of budgetary control being carried out? How deep does it go? What conclusions do we draw? Can you share any conclusions? Let us be honest, if we have to make a lot of decisions in these times and take them quickly, then there are some things that are not going to work out very well. You mentioned one. Perhaps there are things to learn from so that next time the money can be spent more favourably, meaningfully or with greater efficiency. However, we must also look at where we could spend less in the present times, where we can save. It is seen that all companies have less car costs, less representation and event costs. I would like to take this opportunity to ask another question. We are in current affairs where provisional appropriations are actually hidden short-term budgets. What about budgetary control? Is there time for that? Does your administration have time for that? Did you give the order to do that? If so, what are the results?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u11	Minister, thank you for all this information that is informative. I also see that you are trying to be as transparent as possible. However, in addition to these provisions which allow us basically to manage the interim, I would like to take advantage of this exchange of views as to whether the Minister for the Budget is planning in any way in the future, and in particular on the development of the public debt. Do we begin to receive positive signals from the European Commission that could go in the direction of a form of immunisation of the corona debt – in other words, identify the additional public debt since the beginning of the Corona crisis in order to get it out of any form of fiscal straitjacket that Europe could impose on us in the years to come? We hear and read a number of messages indicating that Europe is at the moment a little loose. Everyone will understand that it is difficult to do otherwise. However, with regard to these expenses which were unforeseen but which have the effect of generating an increase in debt and in the same way, all the least revenue which increases the deficit and which, therefore, themselves generate an increase in debt, could we not already plead some form of immunization of this debt, which could have been identified as the so-called "corona" debt? We are working hard on the notions of refinancing. This morning, we talked for long hours about the coronabonds – that's very good – but from the point of view of public debt, would it not be appropriate to try to see what existed at a time "t" and to see at a time "t+1" the over-indebtedness related to the effects of the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u12	Mr Van der Donckt, I can confirm that the 906 million commitments and 903 million liquidations relate to the first billion. We have taken these appropriations from the first tranche. For the time being, the first tranche is not yet exhausted, as a few hundred million are available. However, I have told you that a second instalment is planned to deal with almost $992 million for decisions that have been taken and serious requests made by the services. For technical reasons, it is important that I be ready and that an envelope be provided to meet these credit requests. When I add up the two amounts, I reach 1,896 billion euros. But in the second part of my presentation, I told you that the figures are not yet firm and definitive. The best example is the question of the cost of the Rail Pass, for example. It is of course an amount which was calculated by the SCNB on the basis of the price of a ticket granted to a number of Belgians, who would claim it, to which the costs of mailing should be added. At the same time, I am replying to Mr Gilkinet: this calculation by SNCB has not yet been validated. I simply took the SNCB figure and included it in the provision. If the government decides to grant a lower amount, we will adjust or not. But I must ensure that there are sufficient appropriations, because obviously an amount will have to be paid to SNCB for this service. This is a complex task of anticipation. I do not hide from you that many decisions have been made within the space of fifteen days, and we must be able to quantify these decisions and assess their implications. On the other hand, some decisions were not taken when we had, despite all these figures, forecasted them. As far as consultancy costs are concerned, the amount of EUR 3.788 million I mentioned includes approximately EUR 2 million in consultancy costs. The details of these consultancy costs are also shown at the bottom of the table (Deloitte, Solvint, Purchasing, Cronos, Purson and Imars are all consulting companies). You should ask Mr. De Backer, because he used these consultants to help the medical equipment pool. These consultants were therefore alongside his procurement team, composed of staff from different departments. The assistance of these consultants has often proved useful in the purchase of certain products from Asia or the United States, for example. That is why the amount of EUR 2 million referred to above has been used! On the other hand, I have no idea why the amounts of EUR 2 million and EUR 3.7 million are different, but my colleague may be able to provide you with an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u13	We tried to target maximum spending and put in "Miscellaneous" other small expenses that may be other transportation costs. We wanted to be very precise in what was masks and outfits. In the "Miscellaneous", we put some transportation costs and everything that was consulting. It's always the disadvantage when you put "Miscellaneous", you don't always have to do an arithmetic by saying that there are other special things.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u14	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u15	Two million consultancies and 1.8 million other expenses, mainly transportation. Mr Van der Donckt, all the costs of testing, especially tracing, do not fall to the federal government but to the regions. For example the support of the tracing platforms are paid by the Regions and you will not see these fees appear here. On the other hand, what appears here is the purchase of the tests, the testing equipment. The testing was done in hospitals and these costs are not charged here. This is only about the equipment. Let me remind you that I'm doing a job of gathering information. Ministers are responsible for their expenses. This allows me to answer a question from Mr Gilkinet on the application of public procurement. Ministers are competent to award contracts and engage the State with third parties. They are called primary authorising officers. The Royal Decree of 3 April 2017 provides, however, that for certain important expenses, it is for the Council of Ministers to decide on the method of awarding contracts. I confirm to you that there have been ministerial decisions for certain contracts and that all other expenditure is regulated by decisions of the Council of Ministers a posteriori because it was necessary to pass the contracts quickly. The same Royal Decree provides that the Minister may delegate contracts within his administrations, which are called secondary authorising officers, where execution and monitoring is usually done through contract documents. It was the ministers who made use of the contract within the budget limits and the thresholds set. Mr Leysen, I am sorry that I do not reply in order, but in this way I can tell you that we have continued to apply the rules of budgetary prudence in current affairs. In other words, it is a huge job because we have the urgency, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the prudent business rule that continues with Circular 2018. We have therefore continued to apply these rules of budgetary prudence. I would remind you that the threshold of the Council of Ministers is EUR 70 000 excluding VAT for contracts awarded under negotiated procedure and EUR 130 000 for other procedures. So we were able to conduct these two things together. I take up the list: consultancy, contact tracing, Rail Pass, mask purchases. For the masks, like you, I can only take note of the quantity – that is true – pharaonic, as you said Mr Gilkinet. So I take note. The two universities to which a study has been assigned – this is a vaccine study – are the University of Ghent and the ULB. Finally, to conclude with Mr Laaouej, I do not have the opportunity today to confirm or invalidate your remarks. Personally, I hope that the European Commission will be able to consider that the expenditure related to VOCID will be immunised – to resume your term. I can agree with you, but I have no official indication from the Commission to date that this will be the case. I hope we will argue in this direction at European level, but I do not have the opportunity to confirm this wish to you today. Madam President, I think I have answered all the questions that have been addressed to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u16	There are no other questions. Mr. Minister, I think your clarity and transparency have gone a long way. We will continue with the continuation of the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u17	Mrs Houtmeyers, so far several initiatives have been taken to improve payment behaviour. A first initiative includes the further digitisation and automation of the invoicing process with the introduction of the Vendor Invoice Management module, which allows electronic invoicing. This initiative enables the FPS to make greater use of the possibility of processing invoices automatically, which aims to process and pay them within the prescribed time limit, as provided for in the European Directive. A second initiative aims to encourage the FPS to book the acceptance of the ordered supplies and services before the invoice is due. The VIM project introduced the GMO or Valued Goods Revenue. The GMO transfers the invoice to the goods receipt at the moment of receipt, making the importance of properly exported goods and/or services receipt crucial in the billing process. A third initiative concerns documentation and communication. As part of the implementation of the VIM project, a communication campaign was organised for the FPS, with a clear explanation of the applicable regulations and how to comply with them by using the existing tools within a FPS. As timely payment of invoices is a major priority for the government, I recall a decision of the Council of Ministers of 20 March 2020 on measures to support SMEs and businesses in the context of the corona crisis. This decision provides that the federal authorities will make every effort to pay the invoices in the framework of their public works, supply and service contracts as soon as possible. In this context, I am pleased to announce that this measure is paying off: the average payment period for the FPS using the VIM module has fallen from 21 calendar days to 16 calendar days in May. The FPS Social Security and Foreign Affairs are distinguished by an average payment period of three and eight days respectively in the same month.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u18	Minister, I am very pleased that several initiatives have been taken and, above all, that the average payment period has fallen from 21 to 16 days. I can only encourage you to continue in this way, because the government, of course, has an exemplary role to play: it must show confidence and create new confidence in the economy, now more than ever. Accounts and invoices must be paid in good time and the public authorities must take their example. We must therefore certainly continue along this road. Is it also intended to deliver the report to the Committee on Economic Affairs? I know that further work is being carried out on this issue and that, if necessary, a legislative proposal on the payment behaviour of the public authorities would be tabled. It would therefore be useful for the report to be further explained in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u19	If the committee asks for my opinion, I can, of course, come to the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u20	Okay, I'll discuss it with the responsible committee chairman tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u21	As Mr Loones is debating at another meeting, I propose that Mr Bertels ask his attached question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u22	Minister, my question is about the Stability Programme. By the end of April, Belgium had to submit its new Stability Programme, in line with the European Semester system, the annual cycle for better coordination of national fiscal policies, for Economic and Monetary Union. Belgium submitted that stability programme on 30 April. I assume this was done in accordance with the new guidelines of the European Commission. Meanwhile, on 20 May, the European Commission drew up the draft country-specific recommendations on the National Reform Programme 2020, as well as an opinion on the Stability Programme. That draft country-specific recommendations is likely to be adopted by the European Council, which will meet later this week. My first question is now obsolete. After all, I noticed that you submitted the Stability Programme on 30 April. That's good. My second question is in line with Mr Loones' question. How did you take into account the guidelines for the preparation of the new Stability Programme? I am thinking, among other things, of the escape clause relating to stability and the economic growth path, which, because of the COVID-19 crisis, we are entitled to deviate from the medium-term budgetary objectives. It is not only Belgium that can do that, but Europe as a whole. I also have an addition to my previous written question, given the time that has elapsed since then. How do you intend to respond to the country-specific policy recommendations presented by the European Commission on 20 May as regards your area of competence, especially on budgetary matters?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u23	Madam President, Mr Bertels, initially three oral questions were tabled on the Stability Programme. In addition to yours, there was a question from Mr Ravyts, but it was finally withdrawn. As these questions largely overlap, I will give a joint answer. This answer is divided into six points. Firstly, as regards the presentation of the Stability Programme, I gave a brief explanation of the Stability Programme last week during my presentation to this committee. I shall now go into more detail. The programme was submitted in good time, on 30 April, and was submitted in advance to the Consultation Committee, as provided for in the Cooperation Agreement of 13 December 2013. On 28 April 2020, the Council of Ministers took note of the Stability Programme. The Consultation Committee also did so on 19 April. The Stability Programme is available on the FOD BOSA website as well as on the website of the European Commission. If desired, it may also be made available to committee members. The second point concerns the application of the new guidelines for drawing up the Stability Programme. The European Commission published new guidelines on the preparation of stability programmes in response to the COOVID-19 crisis on 6 April 2020. These shall contain at least the following three components. A first part is a chapter on budgetary policy in response to the COOVID-19 outbreak. The Belgian policy strategy is bipartisan. The priority objective is to protect public health. To this end, several sanitary measures have been introduced. These health measures are accompanied by significant socio-economic impacts. For this reason, other measures were taken in addition to the sanitary measures. These have to cope with the socio-economic effects of the corona crisis. These two shutters were explained in the Stability Programme. There is also the chapter on the economic outlook. In its guidelines, the European Commission indicated that it was difficult to estimate stable medium-term prospects. Therefore, it was sufficient to provide forecasts only for 2020. Quality information could be provided before 2021. Belgium normally uses the MLT prospects of the Federal Planning Office at the beginning of March. However, these have not yet taken into account the impact of the coronavirus. Therefore, in cooperation with the National Bank, the FPB developed a new scenario in early April, covering 2020-2021. This scenario was incorporated into the Stability Programme. The National Bank and the Federal Planning Bureau then considered that the total GDP of the Belgian economy could shrink by 8% by 2020. For 2021, an upsurge of 8,6% is assumed, insofar as the corona crisis does not cause lasting damage to the production potential of the economy. Then there is the chapter on public finances and the budgetary impact of the measures taken to combat coronacisis. Here, too, the focus was on 2020. According to the joint scenario of the NBB and the FPB, the debt deficit for 2020 could amount to around 5,5% of GDP. In this case, the debt ratio would be 115 % of GDP. Finally, all measures taken by the federal government, social security and the Communities and the Regions were listed until 22 April. I note that although some of these measures could be regarded as one-off, they were not classified as one-off. In fact, the European Commission has activated the general escape clause provided for in Articles 5, 6, 9 and 10 of the Arms Prevention Regulation and Articles 3 and 5 of Regulation No. 1467, under which these measures would be dealt with. The budgetary impact of these measures was estimated at EUR 10.2 billion or 2.3 % of GDP in the preparation of the Stability Programme. Point 3 concerns the economic outlook. As explained in the previous point, the Commission indicated in its guidelines that it was difficult to estimate stable medium-term prospects. Therefore, it was sufficient to provide only a forecast for 2020. Quality information could be provided before 2021. Belgium is normally using the medium-term outlook of the FPB at the beginning of March. However, this did not yet take into account the impact of the coronavirus. Therefore, in cooperation with the National Bank, they developed a new scenario in early April, covering 2020 and 2021. This scenario was incorporated into the Stability Programme. The National Bank and the Federal Planning Bureau then considered that the real GDP of the Belgian economy could shrink by 8% by 2020. For 2021, an upsurge of 8,6% was assumed, insofar as the corona crisis does not cause lasting damage to the production potential of the economy. Point 4 concerns the impact of the exceptional circumstances on the existing national budgetary procedure. The new European Commission guidelines state that the extent to which Member States resort to the European budgetary flexibility clause or similar arrangements provided for in national budgetary rules should be mentioned. Similar arrangements exist in some countries where exceptional circumstances affect existing national budgetary procedures. In Germany, for example, there is an exception for unusual emergencies, enshrined in the legislation. In application of this, following the COVID-19 outbreak, the federal government was authorised to exceed the otherwise binding funding limit of 0.35% of GDP by 2020. As far as Belgium is concerned, no similar arrangements are provided for. The fifth point concerns the use of budgetary flexibility clauses. Belgium has listed all measures taken by the federal government with regard to the COVID-19 outbreak, including those relating to social security and the Regions and Communities, in a separate chapter of the Stability Programme. The budgetary impact of these measures was also reflected. Although some of these measures could be classified as one-off, they were not classified as one-off. The European Commission has activated a general escape clause under which these measures would be dealt with. The budgetary impact of all these measures was estimated in the Stability Programme at EUR 10 billion or 2.3 % of GDP. In the Commission's recommendations of 20 May 2020, the Council recommended the following with regard to the Belgian Stability Programme on budgetary flexibility. It is recommended that Belgium take the following actions in 2020 and 2021: in accordance with the general escape clause, take all necessary measures to effectively address the pandemic, stimulate the economy and support the subsequent recovery. If economic conditions allow it to pursue a fiscal policy aimed at achieving prudent medium-term budgetary positions and ensuring debt sustainability and thereby increasing investment. Sixthly, the estimate of the main budgetary indicators. The budgetary indicators, as estimated in a joint scenario of the NBB and the FPB, were reported to the European Commission. The debt-to-GDP deficit could amount to 7.5% of GDP by the year 2020. In this case, the debt ratio would be 115 % of GDP. Debt would evolve from 98 % of GDP in 2019 to 115 % in 2020. It was a rather long and repetitive answer, please excuse me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u24	Minister, you are quoting the indicators of the slowdown in growth and debt building in April of the National Bank and of the Federal Planning Office. I'm afraid I hope we don't have to adjust it a little bit, in the downward sense. That needs to be looked at in the new budget. Let us hope that it is not true and that the economy will recover safely, correctly and as soon as possible. Thank you, Minister, for explaining the processes concerning the temporary deviation and adjustment of the budgetary objective. I think a temporary deviation is correct. There is also a need to keep some expenditure out of it in the future. You said that yourself earlier. In the short term, it is indeed important that we combat the pandemic, support the liquidity of SMEs, the self-employed and so on, and support the purchasing power of those who are severely affected, the economy and recovery. The government and the super core are already working on a number of measures. I would like to comment on the European Commission's policy recommendations, including the recovery fund. In the recommendations, the European Commission states that the countries must respond by next year, but that they can also respond and that investments can be announced by October. I would ask you, Minister, together with the entire government and the state governments, to make use of this and to put forward 'proactive' investment projects as early as October or November at the latest. The European Commission expressed this question explicitly on a presentation. For example, we can use these European Union investment resources as soon as possible to move towards a fair, green and digital economy, to support a green and digital transition within the framework of the New Social Deal, as we call it, and a Green Deal, which includes the explicit recommendation of the European Commission to maintain and strengthen the resilience of our health system, and also, in consultation with the sub-areas, to strengthen the digital skills of young people. The digital skills of young people linger and can be improved. There is progress to be made. You and your colleagues will have to work on this by the end of October.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u25	Minister, you have already answered part of this question in your clear statement just now. As you know, on 6 June 2020 the core+10 decided, among other things, that every Belgian would get ten free train journeys. When I heard that, especially 'free'.............................................................................................................................................................. That turned out to be June 6th, and not December 6th. Sinterklaas is yet to arrive. In the end, it turned out that free is particularly relative. You already provide EUR 110 million, minimum, the question is, of course, whether you will be able to do so. More specifically, does this mean that every Belgian will get a ten-way ticket? Anonymous? Not by name, so it can be passed freely? Or do we all get ten separate tickets? How will the distribution go? I can imagine it is not obvious. Besides, it's gonna cost a lot. Do you have an idea of the cost of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u26	Mr Van der Donkt, Mr De Roover was present at that sitting. Maybe it was Saint Nicholas after all? SNCB is currently studying all technical aspects to meet the mandate of the core+10. The first estimate was about €100 million. As for your wonderful questions about this Rail Pass, I would like to refer you to the Minister for Mobility, who is responsible for this. But maybe my associate can give you more information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u27	SNCB does not count the actual cost. A Rail Pass costs 83 euros but we are not going to calculate 83 times 11 million inhabitants. SNCB assumes that it will lose a recipe if someone uses the Rail Pass. It estimates the number of Belgians likely to use the ticket at 2 million. SNCB estimates the cost of distribution: software development, printing and shipping of the nominative ticket at 4 to 5 million – and we estimate it at 10 million. The idea of SNCB is that if you are valid, you will be able to order your tickets over the internet, and if you are invalid, you will have to go order your ticket at the station. For the time being, SNCB does not understand that such a measure is being introduced in July and August, which could lead to an abundance of trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u28	It is in general the SNCB's answer, but you can ask for more information from my colleague, Mr Bellot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for this explanation and look forward with curiosity to the practical implementation of this sintering Klaasidee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u30	Madam President, Minister, I am sorry, but I am working on some shuttle diplomacy between the Prime Minister and the Minister for the Budget. However, when the Minister for the Budget calls, I will come immediately. Here's what I need to get off my chest. With EUR 110 million train tickets we could fill many bread boxes. Let me now turn to my question about the European Recovery Fund and the contribution of the Member States. Firstly, I have just asked this question to the Prime Minister, who said in her introduction that the European plans could be expected to increase the contribution of the Member States and Belgium to the European Union. It has also pointed out that this contribution is paid solely by the federal budget. It would be good to have the information on this from you, the Minister for the Budget. We had a brief exchange of views on the subject last week. You may now have some additional information with the European Commission's draft plans, which are now on the table. What exactly would it mean in terms of budgetary impact for Belgium? How much extra should we put in the pot? Secondly, we note that a number of countries are lobbying very actively about their contribution. They may retain their rebate or discount on the contribution. This is the case, for example, for the Netherlands and Denmark. We do not have a rebate, but like other countries, we have the opportunity to hold 20% of VAT revenue in our own hands. Especially with the Brexit coming, that's very important. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it would be good to know the following about you on that point. Are you aware of discussions at European level about the possibility that we would still hold that VAT advantage in our own hands?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u31	Mr Loones, the financing of the Next Generation EU recovery fund will be achieved by raising the ceiling for own resources to 2% of gross national income. That is the maximum rate that Member States would have to pay legally. However, the actual contribution of the Member States is much lower. On the basis of the texts currently on the table, this will be 1.07 to 1.10 %. The margin between the figures and the raised ceiling will be used as a guarantee, which, at worst, should be paid in order to raise funds on the financial markets against that margin, or headroom. This is a long-term financing of 30 years of debt and at a very low interest rate due to the European Commission's AAA rating. It would not be repaid until 2028, and the European Commission proposes that this reimbursement be fully covered by the introduction of a number of new own resources. For example, an Emission Trading Scheme, a carbon tax at the external borders, a payment on the turnover of large transnational companies in the internal markets, carbon contributions from both the air and shipping sectors, and, for example, a digital tax for large international Internet companies. The question of whether this concept will be fully feasible at the end of the negotiations cannot yet be answered. However, as you will understand, the proposed funding mechanism does not necessarily imply that national contributions would go up immediately. The headroom or margin between the actual contributions and the own resources ceiling is used exclusively as a legal guarantee to lend on the financial markets in a advantageous manner. The European Commission is proposing this scheme, precisely in order to avoid additional burdens for the heavily affected national governments. With regard to the system of discounts, I understand from the Commission's plans that the phasing-out of these discounts will take place in a much longer period. Whether or not this proposal comes through, I am afraid to predict it, and therefore whether a sensible arrangement would continue to be comprehensive and unlimited in time. These are aspects which will certainly be the subject of negotiations and which must also be approved unanimously by all the Member States. At this stage, therefore, I certainly do not venture to speculate. Since the Commission proposal of May 2018, the VAT proposal has been revised several times. In the latest compromise proposed by President Michel, a method has been chosen which is closely in line with the existing VAT calculation, but where the corrections and exceptions have almost all been deleted. Overall, the budgetary impact of VAT contributions on the GNI contribution for our country is rather neutral. However, our preference is for the Commission's proposal of May 2018, which is the most advantageous of the various proposals. However, VAT revenues are highly dependent on the economic situation and the current crisis will therefore have an impact on Member States' VAT revenues. At present, therefore, it is not possible to make a reliable estimate until 2027.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u32	Minister, we are not going to have the debate on how this will be worked out at European level, I just want to point out that you are talking about a temporary measure that will have an impact for 30 years. One will start paying off in 2028 and we are talking about a measure that will apply until 2058. Temporary is therefore relatively relative in this context. When I asked whether the contribution of the Member States and therefore Belgium to the European Union would increase, you replied very clearly last week. You said that we are already a net contributor today and that this contribution would increase with the European Commission's plans. Today you had a more nuanced answer, which is your right, because last week you had to play very briefly on the ball. I therefore respect that you first set out principles and now provide more detailed information. However, I would like to call on you to be very vigilant because it is about more than just a guarantee. You rightly made the analysis that we may have to guarantee this, but there will also be a link between the recovery fund and the multiannual financial framework or MFF. If the new European own resources are not sufficient, the MFF will be used. Some things must then be removed or the contribution of the countries increased. So you must be very vigilant about this. There is another point that you must be vigilant about. You said that the VAT system is rather neutral, but it is still 20% of the VAT revenue that we are allowed to keep for our budget today. Today we are not yet a real external border to the United Kingdom, but it is likely to be so soon, which means that all trade coming from England may be subject to import tariffs. There could therefore also be a whole debate on VAT. VAT is already important today and will become even more important in the future. I therefore ask for your continued attention, but I have every confidence in your insights and caution in this budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u33	Mr Minister, last week and also today we received a very detailed overview of the budgetary situation as a result of the COVID-19 crisis at the federal level. Last week, on the basis of the ERMG data of 4 June, you informed us that there is, of course, also a budgetary impact of the measures taken by the regions. For the Flemish Community, this impact is estimated at EUR 2.8 billion, for the Walloon Region at EUR 1 billion, for the Brussels-Capital Region at EUR 300 million, for the French Community at EUR 100 million, and for our German-speaking friends also at EUR 100 million. Minister, I asked this question last week, but you could not answer it at that time. You said you'd check things out, which is why I'm asking you questions. Are these amounts still valid today, or have they increased in the meantime? Can you also give some more details per issue and per Land?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u34	Mr Van der Donkt, the estimates of the measures taken at regional level in the framework of COVID-19, which I mentioned in the Committee on Finance and Budget on 9 June, are from ERMG. The figures were those of June 4th. As you know, I am not competent for the Communities and the Regions. However, following the abovementioned exchange of views in the Committee on Finance and the Budget, I took the opportunity, in order to obtain a complete overview of the budgetary situation of our country, the Communities and the Regions, to ask me to provide an overview of the measures taken to combat the current economic and health crisis, with the estimated budgetary impact for each measure. It is intended to update that overview on a quarterly basis. It's the ideal time to request the information. Although the Monitoring Committee report focuses mainly on entity 1, it also includes a number of data on entity 2. So it is now awaiting the extent to which the regions intend to respond to the question of my administration. So I don't have any new numbers yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic208x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I will ask this question again within a few months. Then you might be able to give us some information.
