ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic103x.u1	Madam Chair, Minister, the translation costs of the parties in court can be significant, as each piece must be translated into a foreign language. For example, a 237-page translation file would, to date, amount to €12,904.65, otherwise the continuation of the proceedings would be nullified if the applicant did not have the financial means to bear the costs. The principle is that it is the responsibility of the party who produces them to have the documents drawn up in a foreign language translated into the language of the proceedings which it wishes to submit to the court of judgment. Costs incurred in translation shall not be reimbursed for the costs and expenses covered by articles 1017 and 1018 of the Judicial Code. On 30 December 2007, the European Commission already recommended that the Belgian State amend the law to charge the defaulting party for translation costs in respect of the languages of the European Union, so that every citizen can be entitled to a fair trial without having to invest unrecoverable money under the current law. These are real obstacles to the exercise of the right of access to justice. We note that many litigants are also excluded from legal aid because, although they do not have the financial means to pay for these translation costs, they are nevertheless considered "too rich". For example, a household with a financial entry of €2,500 will not be entitled to legal aid for translation costs of the order of €12,904 based on the maximum income of €1,317/month. However, the 11 October 2014 government agreement states: "Justice is for everyone. The litigants must have prompt and effective access to justice in order to assert their rights." Therefore, Mr. Minister, in view of the above, have any measures been taken to cover the costs of translation in order to incorporate the above-mentioned recommendation and to enable the poorest people to exercise their right of access to justice in practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic103x.u2	Madam Chair, Mr Boukili, the recommendation contained in the report you mention does not require any specific action. Already, on 13 March 1992, the Court of Cassation rendered in its judgment that by excluding from the proceedings documents which have been regularly submitted to it for the sole reason that these documents are written in a language other than that of the proceedings, the judge infringes the rights of the defence. The judgment also states that there is no legal provision exempting the judge from having regard to documents written in a language other than that of the proceedings, provided that they have been regularly submitted to him. If he does not know the language in which they are written, he must take the necessary steps to obtain a regular translation of them. Since then, the Court of Cassation has maintained its jurisprudence on the matter. The report on which you rely refers, moreover, to article 8 of the Act of 15 June 1935 on the use of languages in judicial matters, which provides for the possibility for a party against whom documents are invoked in a language which it does not understand to request translation. This may be ordered by the judge without the possibility of appeal against the decision. The associated costs shall be taxed. It is for the judge to decide on the apportionment of the costs incurred by applications made on the basis of Article 8 of the above-mentioned Act. Finally, with regard to second-line legal aid, it should be noted that its beneficiaries have the right to apply for legal aid in order to cover the costs of a procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic103x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answer. If I understand you correctly, there is no legal obligation to translate such a document. On the other hand, the judge can ask for one. In some cases, recourse to justice may be waived, for lack of resources. So what steps can you take to ensure that everyone has access to justice and thus to prevent the complainant from taking charge of the translation request?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic103x.u4	Mr Minister, the Julie Van Espen case confirmed the absolute need for an awareness of each of the players in the criminal chain of the attention and care required in cases of sexual violence and of increased specialization. I would add, as far as I am concerned, that this is not limited to sexual violence, but all violence against women. Our country is in great need of a policy to combat such violence that is ambitious, first and foremost, with strong vision and measures. I have learned, with regret, that current affairs are delaying the adoption of the national plan. That is not acceptable. In particular, given the scale of the phenomenon and the multitude of measures to be taken. I recall that no fewer than 23 women died in 2019, only because they were women.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic103x.u5	Mr. Boukili, the Judicial Training Institute has been organizing training on sexual crime since 2013. There is both a basic module and an in-depth one. The duration of each module is one day. The last edition of the in-depth module took place in December 2019. It brought together 24 French-speaking participants and 22 Dutch-speaking participants. These trainings are not compulsory. In an action plan against sexual violence, which I have already discussed with the federated entities, I propose to complete these trainings with case discussions by experts of experience in order to explain both theory and practice. The constitutional rule is the publicity of hearings. The Antwerp Court is not seeking a general rule on in camera treatment. In accordance with the established rule of the Code of Criminal Investigation, however, the court of judgment may order that the case be dealt with in camera if one of the parties or the victim so requests in order to protect his or her privacy. With regard to the renovation of the Antwerp Court of Appeal, separate waiting rooms are provided in order to prevent the victim and the perpetrator from sitting together during the waiting period. When developing plans for new judicial buildings, it is also intended to provide for certain separate waiting rooms. In the plan of action against sexual violence, which I am currently addressing with the federated entities, I propose that the criminal judge may, at each stage of the criminal procedure in relation to sexual offences, seek the opinion of a judicial psychiatrist or psychologist. At the level of the various actors in the justice system, several initiatives exist to pool expertise. There is a network of "crimes against people" expertise within the College of Attorneys General, which closely follows the issue of sexual violence. As part of the monitoring of parole, since 1999 there have been support centres for the support and follow-up of perpetrators of sexual violence. As far as the observation centre is concerned, I refer you to my answers to Question No 55002718C by your colleague Ben Segers. Finally, the Judicial Code provides that the special regulation establishes for each court the number of chambers and their powers, the days and hours of their hearings, and the introduction of cases. These regulations are made by order of the president of the court. It is therefore up to the president of a court to set up specific chambers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic103x.u6	Minister, for the answers you have just given, I appreciate the initiatives of our judicial system in approaching this phenomenon. I do not hide from you that we want a society where the mentalities and morals, inherited for centuries, of patriarchal domination will have disappeared, where sexism and violence against women will no longer have their place in our society. In any case, we will support any initiative in this direction and this is a fight that we intend to wage in the years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic103x.u7	Minister, the right to an effective remedy is guaranteed by Article 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, Articles 6 and 13 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Article 8 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In Belgium, the Law of 6 July 2016 amending the Judicial Code with regard to legal aid determines the limit on the means of subsistence below which a person entitled to legal aid may be entitled to legal aid. It must be noted that this ceiling is too low. Citizens below the poverty line are denied full or partial free legal aid, as their livelihoods exceed the legal ceiling. Indeed, the poverty line is at an income of 1,115 euros net per month for a single person and 2,341 euros net per month for a household composed of two adults and two children. Totally free legal aid has been granted since 1 September 2019 to a single person whose net monthly income and means of subsistence is less than 1,026 euros and to a cohabitant whose net monthly income and means of subsistence is less than 1,317 euros. According to this criterion, 15.5 per cent of the Belgian population is at risk of poverty. People aged 18-24 (20.8%), the unemployed (45.9%), single-parent families (41.4%), people with a low level of education (30.7%) and social tenants (36.2%) are most at risk. In addition, you have removed all irrefragable presumptions of indigence, with the exception of the one in favour of minors. Each litigant must now be able to document his or her situation. As a result, there is a significant number of de facto excluded persons from legal aid because they fail to collect the large number of required documents. In an article published in Le Soir on 9 September 2017, you committed yourself to carrying out an evaluation of this reform. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you when will the evaluation of legal aid reform be carried out? Is an evaluation of the legal protection insurance reform also planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic103x.u8	Mr Boukili, before I answer your questions, I would like to point out that there are two bills to raise the legal aid thresholds. They are under consideration in the Committee on Justice and the Court of Auditors is expected to deliver an opinion very soon. As far as your first question is concerned, the assessment to which reference is made with regard to second-line legal aid is that provided for by the Ministerial Decree of 19 July 2016 laying down the point nomenclature for services performed by lawyers in charge of second-line legal aid partially or completely free of charge (Article 4). This is an evaluation of the point nomenclature. This assessment is carried out within the two Orders, in common, with lawyers specializing in each subject. This evaluation is still under way and is expected to be completed shortly. With regard to legal protection insurance, article 23 of the Act of 22 April 2019 making legal protection insurance more accessible provides that the Bar Associations and Assuralia will send to the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Consumer Protection, the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Finance, every two years and for the first time in September 2021, a joint assessment report on the application of the law by the State, insurance companies and lawyers. The report will also contain a specific point setting out proposals and suggestions for better access to law and justice for the citizen, a detailed and quantified overview of contracts concluded pursuant to the law and contracts concluded which offer additional guarantees, and a numerical overview of cases in which lawyers avail themselves of the option provided for in Article 11 (1) of the Law, where the lawyer chooses to fix his fees and expenses at the amount per benefit determined by the Royal Decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic103x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am pleased that work will soon be done on this assessment, which is urgently needed in order to obtain concrete answers. I look forward to the results to see how we can move forward on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic103x.u10	Madam President, Minister, in April 2019 it was reported that the HSBC bank had concluded a record criminal transaction in Belgium of 300 million euros, thus escaping a public trial while the case concerns, in the end, no less than 3,003 Belgians holding 4,616 accounts at HSBC bank for a total amount of 6,26 billion dollars. On October 2, 2019, I asked you about the impunity of large-scale financial crime. I repeat my questions: "Since the law of 18 March 2018, published in the Belgian Moniteur on 2 May 2018, has allowed the resumption of extended criminal transactions, how many have been granted in full and for what total amount? How many transactions over EUR 1 million were granted and for what total amount? How many transactions over EUR 10 million have been granted and for what total amount? How many transactions of more than EUR 50 million were granted and for what total amount?" On the occasion of this oral question in the Committee on Justice concerning the preparation of periodic reports on extended criminal transactions, you replied: "The College of Attorneys General promised me to provide, by the end of the year, a statistical overview of the extended criminal transactions that were concluded in 2018. The previous report dates from 2017." In view of the above, Minister, I would like to reiterate my request. So, have these statistics actually been transmitted by the College of Attorneys General to your attention? Can you provide us with a copy? Can you, on the basis of this statistical data, give us answers to the questions formulated on October 2, 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic103x.u11	Madam President, Mr Boukili, last week I was actually able to consult the statistical report of the College of Attorneys General on the number of extended criminal transactions that were proposed to suspects in 2018, after having brought the public action. I have made this report available to the Speaker of the House. This covers a total of 124 extended criminal transactions for a total amount of EUR 8,508,619, of which 117 were paid for a total amount of EUR 8,487,652. In addition, €75,710,699 was paid to the tax authorities and €10,444 to ONSS. The amount for the injured persons is EUR 764,500. The alienated property benefits amount to €47,035,570. This statistical report does not mention any individual figures and does not allow this level to disaggregate them. However, in 2018, no transactions exceeded EUR 10,000,000. The criminal transaction with the HSBC bank to which you refer was concluded in 2019. It is therefore not included in this report. This will give a completely different image on 2019, given the high amount of the transaction and the damages paid to the Belgian State.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic103x.u12	Minister, I thank you for these answers that reinforce our position in the face of this criminal transaction, which brings about real class justice. Someone who took two muffins from a six-month-old trash can. On the other hand, someone like Mr. Moreau, who has won millions thanks to the public authorities, buys his trial. From our point of view, it is time to reform the extended criminal transaction because we no longer have the impression of equal justice for every citizen. Whether we are rich or poor, justice must apply in the same way! We can't escape because we have more money than the others.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic103x.u13	Minister, this question is prompted by media reports that the Grey Wolves, or associated organisations or parties, are trying to find a breeding ground in our country. The Grey Wolves are Turkish state-nationalists who are closely associated with the AKP of Turkish President Erdogan and the MHP party of Türkeş and do not back down to violence and intimidation against people who think otherwise. In addition, the Islamic Grey Wolves would also be involved in murders, attacks and drug trafficking. There's a lot to report on this organization, but I'd like to ask what's going on in our country. I want to know how that is being investigated in our country. I would point out that they are trying to gain influence in politics. There are cases of members who are or were active in political parties such as sp.a, Groen, PS, Ecolo and CD&V. In Austria, the problem is being tackled more vigorously. The so-called Grey Wolf Greetings and the flag of the organisation are regarded as extremist symbols and are therefore prohibited in Austria. Mr Minister, is this organisation in our country closely followed by the intelligence services? If so, how many members or supporters have the Grey Wolves in our country? Were there any intimidations, violence and other criminal activities linked to that association in our country in recent years? How is the infiltration of Grey Wolves in Belgian politics monitored? Are there any reasons to consider the organisation Grey Wolves, by testing it against certain criteria, as a terrorist organisation? Can that organisation therefore also be banned in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic103x.u14	Mr Depoortere, the Grey Wolves movement has also been taking place in Belgium since the late 1970s in the wake of the ultra-nationalist movement MHP and the cultural centres coordinated by the Belgian-Turkish Federation, BTF. Since 2000, direct participation in MHP and BTF has fallen sharply. However, it does not prevent those organisations from still mobilising parts of the Turkish community for demonstrations related to specific events. The BTF retains a certain degree of control and prohibits violent acts that may damage the image of the BTF. However, this does not rule out the possibility of violent actions being initiated by radical individuals. The members of MHP and the BTF continue to be seen as the Grey Wolves, but one cannot speak of a paramilitary or terrorist organization in Belgium. The threat posed by the BTF and its supporters is considered by the State Security to be minimal. Some radical individuals who adhere to thought are being followed. Local BTF departments can count on several hundred visitors when activities are organised. However, the number of active members would not exceed a hundred. The VSSE does not have information that indicates that the BTF intends or has a strategy to infiltrate Belgian politics. Like other Belgian politicians, politicians of Turkish origin come from all layers of the population and are of different orientations, so some of them are also supporters of MHP. With regard to the general picture of crime, we do not currently have any indication that there is a structural link between the organisation of MHP itself and crime, which does not exclude possible links between individual members of that organisation and criminal circles. Due to the separation of powers, I cannot provide information on possible ongoing investigations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic103x.u15	Minister, you must forgive me, but I am always concerned that foreign conflicts are being imported into our country because of the constant flows of immigration into our country. This requires double vigilance by our security and intelligence services. In my view, the biggest problem is, of course, double nationality: many Turks still have Turkish nationality and are still loyal to the regime there. This means that it is not so easy to get these people into our country and to stop the import of foreign conflicts vigorously and effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic103x.u16	Madam President, on 15 January 2020, I had already asked a question about guilty negligence in child abuse. There was a misunderstanding and this question apparently expired. As a result of the answers you have given to a colleague's questions, I still have a few additional questions. In general, there were cases where there were suspicions in schools of child abuse and/or sexual abuse of pupils by a parent, but where the police were not taken to the police by teachers or the CLB, who suspected something, even if children reported it themselves. This silence, which apparently happens regularly, may lead to more victims in the meantime or to more extreme acts. In this way, a victim is also not encouraged to seek further help or report it. If one finally has the courage to go to a trusted person and nothing happens to that intelligence, then there is an immense chance that the victim will not dare to go to the police and that nothing will happen at all. In such cases, is there no guilty omission? I'm assuming so. Can CLB employees and teachers be punished in these cases? Probably. Then do I think whether the notion of negligence is sufficient in these cases? Is there no need for additional legislation in certain sectors such as education, sport or association?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic103x.u17	I cannot rule on specific individual matters. That could affect the course of justice. The assessment of whether a teacher or a member of the CLB is guilty by not going to the police is due to the public prosecutor or the judge. However, there are several exceptions to professional secrecy, such as the state of emergency or the failure to act within the meaning of Article 422a of the Criminal Code. In addition, Articles 458a and 458b of the Criminal Code provide for legal exceptions to professional secrecy. I refer in particular to Article 458a that, when the holder of professional secrecy becomes aware of a crime committed against a minor or other vulnerable person, including the offence referred to in Article 398 of the Criminal Code, intentional beatings and injuries, he may inform the Prosecutor of the King if there is a serious or imminent danger to the physical or psychological integrity of the minor and if he cannot protect that integrity himself or with the help of others, without prejudice to the provisions of Article 422a. This article therefore allows the protection of the minor to prevail over professional secrecy. In the case of child abuse, it is also perfectly possible to contact the Child Abuse Trust Centres, the so-called UK's, whose aid providers themselves are bound by professional secrecy. These UKs may investigate reports or suspicions of child abuse and give an opinion on the societal need for a measure at the request of emergency workers or the Public Prosecutor's Office. I refer in this respect to the Flemish Decree on integrated youth aid. It is certainly useful to define and define in specific legal or code of conduct the obligation of professional secrecy or discretion and the procedures to be followed for certain sectors. Guilty negligence will be judged against the duty of care that rests on everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic103x.u18	Mr Minister, you gave a great deal of the same answer as I read in the Bulletin of Questions and Answers a few weeks ago. In any case, I note that you would not find it superfluous that additional measures are being taken for certain sectors which have a great deal to do with children.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic103x.u19	Madam President, Minister, unfortunately, sometimes citizens pay too much road ticket to the competent public service. Sometimes this happens by making a mistake of your own, for example by accidentally paying twice or transferring a wrong amount. Sometimes there is a technical problem in the software of the collection system. It is up to the government to ensure a refund of wrong or double paid fines. For example, the Federal Ombudsman recommends that sums of money that have been deposited too much or unduly should be repaid within 20 days. Recently, I read in the media that there is still a serious delay in the reimbursement of the wrongly collected traffic fines. More than 50,000 people would be waiting for a public service refund at the moment. At least 5,000 files would have been dragging since 2018. The FPS Justice indicated that the manual examination of those files, in order to determine whether they are indeed entitled to a refund, takes time and that the files will be dealt with in the coming months. Minister, by what date will the citizens who have been waiting since 2018 for a refund receive their money? How does the procedure for reimbursement proceed? How do you explain that this procedure has taken more than a year and a half? Are you planning to revise the procedure in order to ensure a correct and realistic repayment period?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic103x.u20	Madam President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, many of these dossiers will be dealt with in the coming months. It is not possible to give an exact date, since the refund is conditioned by the consent of the various public prosecutors, but we expect a large number of these files to be approved by the end of February. The Traffic Fines Service has taken into account the Ombudsman's recommendations to improve the situation. The automatic refund procedure has already been adapted and has been running almost smoothly since April 2019. In doing so, when the payment cannot be linked to the offence, the citizen will receive a letter with a unique code to link the payment online. If he fails to do so, the payment will automatically be refunded after 30 days. Since the introduction of the new automatic refund in April 2019, more than 55,000 people have been reimbursed for the period from April to December 2019. For the files from April 2018 to March 2019, more than 75,000 people received a refund. You should know that more than 350,000 payments are received on a monthly basis in the road ticket bill. As a result, the Traffic Fines Service receives 400 to 500 new files that cannot be processed through the automated refund process. In these files, which account for only 0.14% of the monthly files processed, there is no refund within 30 days and the citizen has to wait longer for a possible refund. After all, these poorly linked traffic fines cannot be processed via the automated system. At the moment there are about 5,000 files left from 2018. For this purpose, the back office, in cooperation with the concerned public prosecutors and the FPS Finance, will take the necessary steps to make a refund. These files originate from the period prior to the entry into force of the new automatic refund procedure. They require manual examination and approval of the relevant parquet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic103x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is certainly a good thing that an automatic system has been in place since April 2019. Unfortunately, the people who made a mistake before that date or in whose case the system did not work properly were not helped. As you said, it's about 5,000 files, and I hope those people get their money back as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic103x.u22	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55003015C and 55003016C by Mrs De Wit are postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Spiegeleer, Mr De Spiegeleer, Mr De Spiegeleer, Mr De Spiegeleer, Mr De Spiegeleer, Mr De Spiegeleer, Mr De Spiegeleer, Mr De The same applies to the question No. 55003034C by Mrs Jadin. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Van Hecke's 5503055C and 55003056C are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic103x.u23	Madam President, Minister, this Monday, January 20, two prison guards were brutally assaulted at Antwerp prison. They were taken to the hospital, along with a third guard, in shock. The union had fired the alarm bell already on Friday 17 January because there were not enough staff. The Antwerp prison is, in fact, planned to normally accommodate up to 430 prisoners. Today, it hosts 720. Under these conditions, the tension can only be very high. It is the guards and the detainees themselves who are the victims. Unfortunately, this incident is not an isolated case. They seem to be multiplying across the country. On 12 December, the guards were still on strike to denounce these deplorable working conditions. Indeed, who would want to come to work under such conditions? Let us add to this a few relevant figures: - 540,000 is the number of recovery days that prison guards in our country can claim; - 300, this is the number of missing guards - there are about 6,800 in Belgium; - 16% is the prison overcrowding rate. This is all the more disconcerting when you observe how you ended mediation with the unions regarding the minimum service in the event of a strike, when you propose to impose a presence of more than 50% in all prisons, without taking into account the particularities of each institution. You seem to prefer to deprive workers of the possibility of denouncing these working conditions rather than taking seriously the problems encountered. Minister, following the incident of 20 January 2020, I would like to know how many accidents have been reported by the guards, i.e. all 6,800 workers, in 2019 in the 35 prisons in the Kingdom of Belgium? How much did this figure rise in 2015? How many workers were there? This gives an idea of the state of our prisons (overpopulation), and therefore the conditions of detention of prisoners, and the work of the guards, in normal situation. Do you not find it urgent to question this "normal" before pretending to deprive the guardians of their right to collective action?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic103x.u24	Mr Boukili, allow me to make a small correction: a total of 9,496 people work in prisons, all ranks combined. These staff represent 8,051.17 full-time equivalents. Considering only the monitoring and technical framework, there are 7,734 staff, or 6,569.6 full-time equivalents. It is also necessary to take into account the directorates, counsellors and attachés, administrative staff, medical staff and the psychosocial service, while including the cults. The number of occupational accidents involving prison surveillance and technical staff was 884 in 2015 and 959 in 2019. These figures include all accidents, including those on the way to work. Since the statistics do not make the difference between technical and monitoring personnel, I can only give you these figures. I work daily to improve the working conditions of prison officers. I remind you almost every week of everything that has already been implemented: building new prisons, investing in old institutions to improve infrastructure and security, installing telephones in cells, recruiting staff, promoting them, providing regulations adapted to prison staff, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic103x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answers. Last week, you again replied in committee to my colleague Van Hees that there was no problem of understaffing, but the figures you are giving us today confirm this understaffing, particularly among the chiefs of prison guards. I said 6,800 and you even gave a lower number! You say you want to reconcile the right to strike with other rights, but in reality you just want to break the right to strike with the proposal that is put on the table. This confrontation goes too far anyway. I think the department's responsibility is quite important, so the anger of the prison officers is to the maximum. Yet they do not give up and have announced new actions, ensuring that this struggle will continue and we will support them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic103x.u26	Mr. Minister, in mid-2017 a special Security Ministerial Council agreed to allow a deal between shopkeeper and shoplifter under the supervision of the Public Prosecutor. The problem of shoplifting is expected to be better addressed in this way. However, such an alternative handling of shoplifting requires a protocol agreement. In reply to an oral question, Minister Ducarme, responsible for SMEs and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, indicated that the protocol agreement would not be concluded during the current period. According to Minister Ducarme, the College of Attorney General had many legal reserves in the draft protocol agreement. Minister, what legal reserves has the College of Attorneys-General formulated? Can the advice given by the college be delivered to the Chamber? Are you also of the opinion that the government should have full power to bring this matter to a positive conclusion? If so, why? If not, what steps have you already taken and will you take to bring the dossier to a successful conclusion?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic103x.u27	Mrs Houtmeyers, the College of Attorneys General gave an opinion at my request on 11 March. I will give that advice to the chairman of the committee so that she can keep it available. In its opinion, the College of Attorneys-General has not expressed a negative opinion on the project, but has made some reservations. For example, the College draws attention, among other things, to the fact that such an amicable settlement system will continue to exist alongside other existing court proceedings. For example, closure and the outcome of a settlement cannot have a definitive effect on criminal proceedings and prosecution. The conclusion of a settlement does not automatically lead to the end of the criminal proceedings, but may lead to no prosecution for the time being. Furthermore, the College advises that certain forms of shoplifting, for example those with aggravating circumstances, should be excluded from the settlement. I can agree with that opinion. If an agreement can be reached with the self-employed organisations and the public prosecutor's office, taking into account the advice of the College of Attorneys General, I believe that a further discussion of the dossier can be organised. However, in view of possible legislative changes or additional costs, it is necessary to analyse carefully whether this is possible during the period of a government in current cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic103x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am absolutely looking forward to a possible discussion in committee and hope for a positive follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic103x.u29	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Question No 5, by Mrs Özen (H-5003087) and Question No 5, by Mrs Özen (H-5003091) Mrs Jiroflée's 55003092C is converted into a written question.
