ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u2	I propose that you devote one discussion to these three bills. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these three draft laws.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u3	I would remind you of the rules agreed at the Conference of Presidents: 30 minutes per recognized political group and 15 minutes for the other groups. I repeat the rules agreed at the Conference of Presidents: 30 minutes per recognised group, 15 minutes for the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u4	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Messrs. Steven Mathei, Joy Donné, Benoît Piedboeuf and Wouter Vermeersch and Mrs Sophie Thémont and Kathleen Depoorter. They refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u5	Madam President, Mr Donné will be speaking in the debate with Minister Van Peteghem on the new taxes, with which he will have his hands full.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u6	Prime Minister, Madam Secretary of State for the Budget, Minister Van Peteghem, thank you for attending this important debate. Two months ago, we sat together for the first time before the first plenary session on your first government agreement of the purple green government that you are now leading. That was a special meeting, since it did not take place in this Chamber's plenary room, but on location, in the Chamber of the European Parliament, together with all colleagues in the Chamber at a safe distance. I remember a similar moment, because I was a minister myself for years... [[(Hilarity]] ) (...):A freudian slip!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u7	Weeks! I have been a minister myself for weeks, days, minutes and seconds, but I have also been a Member of the European Parliament for a few years, so I know this Chamber and the European Parliament's seat quite well. I have seen a number of strong speakers in this Chamber, including the Secretary-General of the United Nations. The Pope has also come to speak. So, Prime Minister, I can imagine that you thought it was a special time to be on the floor of the European Parliament. I have seen a show on this Chamber, with European cachet, on other days by a former Liberal Prime Minister, Guy Verhofstadt, the Prime Minister of the first purple-green government in this country. For one thing, Mr Verhofstadt is a role model for your own government, especially if I can rely on a few speeches and certainly also on Minister Van Quickenborne. Moreover, Prime Minister, it is going around that you yourself have European and international ambitions, which may explain some of your career choices, but that is another debate. So we were in the European Parliament about two months ago. We didn't really have much at the time. We had received from you a half A4' from a notebook with some numbers on it. That was all we had available. That's what we had to do with it. But even then, with that one A4's, we already knew the bill was wrong. That's the analysis the experts made back then. I remember in particular the debate on the figures for fraud. At that time, you did not even have a minister responsible for the fight against fraud. In the meantime, fortunately, after our intervention, that has been corrected. Congratulations, Mr Van Peteghem. There was already a discussion about the fraud figures on the basis of that A4's. You said then: the N-VA is a kindergarten, she's completely wrong. In the meantime, however, we have seen a number of analyses. We have seen the European Commission's report, which says that these fraud figures are unrealistic. We have seen the Court of Auditors' analysis, which says that what is being done there is simply a rich calculation. A lot of financial experts say those numbers don't add up. In short, at the time of the first debate in the European Parliament, we already knew: there is a smell on this. In the meantime, we are two months ahead and we have your first full budget, not an A4' anymore, but 2,000 pages of letters and figures. You know, Prime Minister, that I am a lawyer. I have a natural tendency to pay particular attention to the letters, to the words, to the coalition agreement. In the meantime, I have been working on this in Brussels for some time, and I have learned that the best way to look at the figures is to look at the figures. What we politicians all know is that half the truths and all the lies are hidden in the letters and in the words, but that the truth is revealed in the budget tables. If you look at exactly what the money is spent on, you will see effectively what kind of policy a particular government can pursue. Behind the text, behind the words, politicians can hide, but not behind the figures. The figures show the policy choices that are really being made. That's what I want to talk to you about. About the policy choices your government makes. About your slogans, your promises, your fine words, about the letters, but I will then confront them with the figures, with your own budget tables. In this way, reality is exposed. The first promise of the purple-green government was that you would do it differently. You were supposed to listen to the experts. You wouldn't risk populism or wet fingering, but listen to the experts. We saw this when the CREG wanted to present a critical analysis of nuclear energy. She was silenced. When the privacy committee recently came up with an analysis because you wanted to browse all the people's bank accounts, you ignored the experts' advice not to. There are also experts in the budget, at the Court of Auditors and at the European Commission. They have also been guests in the Chamber. The Court of Auditors refers to your own tables. If nothing were to change, i.e. if policies were unchanged, the deficit would be around EUR 21.5 billion in 2024. You promise to implement a number of measures which would make a structural improvement of the balance by EUR 3.9 billion. We would then reach around EUR 17 billion. That is a deficit of just over 3% of GDP, close to what the European Union is supposed to expect. So you really want an exercise with reforms, improvements and savings of EUR 3.9 billion. The Court of Auditors is actually asking itself questions about EUR 3 billion in these plans; EUR 3 billion in the proposals is simply not guaranteed; EUR 3 billion in budget reforms are currently air. There's no foundation. There are reforms that may follow, but they are not yet in place. Every so many pages there is such a reference. On page 14, the Court of Auditors points out that the figures only explain a government policy intention, but that they are not based on a specific analysis. On page 18, they report that there are no underlying calculations. On page 21, the Court of Auditors points out that it is not possible to assess the correct impact of this. Page 30 deals with the corona measures. The Court of Auditors states that the overall economic contraction is not taken into account, so that there is a risk of overestimate. For tax fraud on page 37, there is no detailed calculation in support of the estimate. There's nothing in the budget draft. She's missing. I'll be on page 58. Although you also seem to want to increase the budget for development cooperation to 0,7%, the Court states that your multiannual budget does not yet take into account the government's plan to increase the appropriations. It is about millions and even hundreds of millions of euros, but they are air in your budget. You're asking for EUR 3 billion in air. It's a bubble. I've already used the image in committee, because I've had to think about it a lot. It has become a famous political photo, namely the photo of Gwendolyn Rutten on her Instagram page blowing a bubble. It is a beautiful, beautiful bubble in purple-green colors. It's a beautiful picture. Mr Prime Minister, at that time you were not so satisfied with that image. Mr Lachaert was furious as well as Vincent Van Quickenborne, before becoming the biggest fan of the current government. Today, however, you are blowing those bubbles yourself. Today, you are doing exactly what you accused Mrs Rutten of doing. You put air in your numbers. The Court of Auditors is gonna pop that bubble. The experts are piercing that bubble. It would adorn you if you kept your promise and listened to the experts. The European Commission is actually doing the same analysis. She too has been a guest in the European Parliament. She makes three decisions. First of all, you're a rich man. Your figures in terms of deficit, growth, private consumption, exports, unemployment and productivity are all considered unrealistic. The European Commission comes up with detailed tables that show that your figures are simply not correct. Personally, I found the most striking example of the European Commission's analysis of public debt. In your budget, you state that there are additional expenditures due to corona, which, by the way, makes sense. That means they need to be funded, which will have an impact on the government debt. However, we do not need to panic, as from 2022 and even from 2021, public debt will begin to fall again. However, the European Commission notes that this view is not correct. Government debt will continue to rise in 2021 and later. So you're not just putting an invoice on the table today and you're not only bringing new taxes, but also additional debts, which in future will be taxes for our children and our grandchildren. That is the first lesson of the European Commission. The European Commission's second lesson is the following. The European Commission states that you may be able to pretend that you have made an effort, but that this is not the case with all European countries. After all, the European Commission is not only making an analysis of our budget, but also of the budget of all the European Member States. What is the European Commission's position? The deficit is only greater in one country than in Belgium, particularly in Spain. One country is doing even worse than your government, and that is Spain. All the other countries in the European Commission have a better budget than you, all of them. They too have the challenge of corona. They too have the economic impact. They still have a budget that is better than yours, except Spain. Perhaps that's your reference, but certainly not ours. I come to the third lesson of the European Commission. All the reports are here. Not only did she look at budget deficits, she also looked at policy. How big is the impact of the corona crisis? How much prosperity is affected? How did they do that? They looked at the situation today, during corona, and they compared it to the situation before corona. What does that show? Again, we're champions. The loss of prosperity is again greater with us than in the rest of the EU. There are two countries that are doing even worse: Spain and Italy, but everything else is doing better. Everyone has a better economic policy that has less economic impact in the EU than your government. Your government hasn't been running for two months, Prime Minister. Your parties were already in the Wilmès government and had already been given the keys to implement the Corona policy. It would be a good thing for you to take responsibility for that. In any case, the European Commission makes that analysis and says: Belgium is champion, but in all the wrong championships. Is there a prize you don't want to win? Belgium gets him: high taxes, high public debt, high deficits, high welfare losses. Hopla, all the prizes they don't want, all the championships they don't want to win, Belgium is on stage. Congratulations. At the same time, we must always be honest. What is the honesty in this debate? It is not easy to draw up budgets today. The context changes every day. There's gonna be more severe numbers, then even more severe numbers. We're going from one misery to even bigger misery, and that's constantly changing. It is not easy to draw up a budget in this context. That's right. My accusation is not that this is not obvious. I think it is logical that at some point you should complete that exercise, draw up texts and tables and come to Parliament to put it to the vote. I respect that a choice is made and that progress must be made within the variable context. That's not my criticism. My criticism is that you don't listen to the experts. Within this uncertainty, you do not choose the certainty that there is. Even in a crisis, there are facts and certainties that you could take into account, but you are quite deliberately not doing so. Hence my appeal to you, Prime Minister. You say the government will listen to the experts. Then please do so. Listen to the experts, listen to the Court of Auditors, listen to the European Commission. You yourself say that you are leading a very pro-European, even europhile government. Then I cannot imagine that you would simply side with the European Commission's opinion. Unfortunately, it looks like you're doing that. We have already had part of this debate in committee. I remember a speech by Mr Laaouej, leader of the PS group. You will have to forgive me, Mr Laaouej, but I got a feeling of flashback to the period of the Di Rupo administration. At the same time, there was a lot of criticism from the European Commission about the budget. But the answer of the Di Rupo government was: who is Olli Rehn? The European Commission was then competent to carry out the analyses of the countries. But all the government said back then was, "Who the hell is this man?" We're just doing our own thing. They can send us as many reports as they want, we can just put them next to us. Prime Minister, I hope that is not your style and that you do not choose Mr Di Rupo's tradition, and that you will, on the other hand, take account of the budgetary experts. The second promise in your coalition agreement: "no panic, everything will be fine, you can trust us." This government has said this a number of times. That's one of the red threads from Secretary of State De Bleeker's policy statement. Everything's gonna be okay. We can sleep on our two ears, because we finally have a real leader. The Wilmès government is gone. We have a real leader. But let's be honest, we actually have two leaders. Mr De Croo is a Prime Minister in terms of title, Professor Vandenbroucke is actually Prime Minister. We can sleep on both our ears. Everything's gonna be okay. That's not true. It's just not true. Your budget is already running a huge deficit. The European Commission and the Court of Auditors say so, but you simply ignore it. But this isn't the end of it. You manage not to include costs that are certainly not included in your budget at all. Madam Secretary of State, we should have a word about that. First of all, the corona vaccines. We all know that we need to order the vaccines and that they need to be administered soon. That's gonna have to be paid for, too. We're not the only country in the world to get those vaccines for free. We too will have to pay for these vaccines, but the budget includes EUR 0 for them. Nothing, zero, nope, nada, nougat balls. It is a crisis, we know that it is not obvious and that the timing of the vaccines is already difficult, but the signal your government is sending to the people is that we are not even sure whether we will be able to pay for those vaccines. Mr Kathleen Depoorter asked that question in committee and what was the answer from Minister Vandenbroucke? The pennies aren't provided. Mr Depoorter once again asked Professor Vandenbroucke this question in plenary and what was the answer? The pennies aren't provided. The Court of Auditors makes the analysis and says, I quote from the report: "The money is not foreseen." Mrs De Bleeker, I put the question to you in the Committee on Budgets. You couldn't answer back then, but you did this morning. I asked the question again on Twitter, and then you tweeted an answer that pissed me off. Do you know why? Because you say in your tweet that a corona commission of 907 million has been provided for and that if it were not enough for the measures and the vaccines, we will then continue to supplement them. You give the impression that the EUR 907 million will allow at least some of the vaccines to be paid. What is in your own budget? What is the response from Minister Vandenbroucke? That a commission of EUR 907 million has indeed been entered in your budget in two parts, 500 million and 407 million. Of this, 500 million goes straight to hospitals, as was the case in 2020. So there's 500 million missing immediately and then 407 million left. Of this, Minister Vandenbroucke has explicitly said that it is already intended for additional costs in the areas of health care, consultation and personal protection, but not for vaccines. He has explicitly said that it is not registered for vaccines and what do you say on Twitter? That we will spend that money twice and pay for the vaccines with it. That's not serious. That Minister Vandenbroucke has got $400 million to buy useless medicines, such as remdesivir, we have seen, but he hasn't registered money to pay for the vaccines, he says so himself. In your communication on the social media, you act as if the money could be used for this, but that is really not serious, Prime Minister. People are insecure, they want the guarantee that the vaccines will get there quickly and that they will be able to be paid. That question is actually almost laughed away, when not only we make that remark, but also the Court of Auditors. It refers to a commission of EUR 900 million, but this year there was a commission of EUR 4 billion for corona, and you pretend that next year you will solve all the problems with EUR 900 million and that you will also be able to pay EUR 370 million for vaccines, because that will be about the cost. This is simply irresponsible, Prime Minister. You're just laughing at people, you're turning a wheel in their eyes. This just can't be happening. If you come up with some kind of grievance later, I will be happy to hear it, but at least I assume that you will confront yourself with the statements made by Minister Vandenbroucke, who has repeatedly said that the EUR 907 million is gone, that there is no money for the vaccines. You do not listen to the experts, you do not charge the costs of the vaccines, and there is another big challenge ahead: the Brexit. In a time of crisis, there are also certainties and, unfortunately, it is a certainty that the United Kingdom will leave the European Union. We do not yet know exactly how that will go, whether there will be a thicker or a thinner border, whether there will be a deal or not, but we do know that the Brexit is coming and it will have a very big financial impact, especially in Flanders, especially in West Flanders, my own province. If there is no deal, we know that around EUR 3 billion less will be exported to the United Kingdom. Today, we are exporting around EUR 29 billion, but that will immediately amount to EUR 3 billion. Even if there is a deal, EUR 1.6 billion less will be exported to the United Kingdom. I would think that you would take this into account in the budget and that you would nevertheless provide for a number of aid measures because it is a corresponding amount. The Brexit can have a huge impact: more than 40,000 jobs can be compromised. Well, there's 26 million euros in the budget for the Brexit. Hundreds of millions of euros for corona, 26 million euros for the Brexit. That's not serious either. If we ask a question about this, then the answer is always the same: that is not bad at all, because the European Commission comes up with a bag of money, a EUR 5 billion Brexit fund that will solve all our problems. What you're not saying is that that bag of money will have to be distributed. Not only Flanders, but also France, the Netherlands, Denmark and Ireland are affected. Nor do you say that the distribution key of the EUR 5 billion is still unknown. I have repeatedly asked for your target figure, but your government does not even know how much of that 5 billion it wants to achieve. Perhaps, after my question, a calculation has been made, but last week it was not yet the case. So you are telling us a story as if Europe could save us with that EUR 5 billion. You say that you will solve it with EUR 26 million in your budget, because we can trust you, we can sleep on both ears, as you are doing serious work. Your government, you say, will not excel in amateurism. Well, please. Soit, the promise to listen to experts, we don't respect. The promise not to count us rich, neither do we respect it. The third promise is that there will not be too much air in the figures, but that there will be a realistic calculation. In this context, I would like to mention two examples. A first example is employment policy. It's not funny, on the contrary. Your budget is turning red and social security is turning dark red numbers. In fact, we all know that there is only one solution, namely more people at work, so that we have to pay less benefits and more income. That must, of course, be done in a sensible way. People who can work have to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u8	Mr Loones, Mr Hedebouw wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u9	Mr Loones, I will explain my criticism of this government's budget later, but you are talking about social security now, and I find that strange. You are now speaking for 15 minutes, but in the last five years N-VA has always returned the word "saving": saving, saving. Now, after 15 minutes of your speech, that word still hasn't fallen. You're talking about social security and you're saying we need more jobs. On 9 January 2016, Bart De Wever said: "There is only money in social security." When, in 2016, a reduction in the number of beds in hospitals was also discussed. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure you will remember that discussion at the time. We can certainly discuss to what extent Maggie De Block was doing this, but the N-VA was also a very enthusiastic government party that said that the number of beds in the hospitals should be reduced. Mr Loones, come back to that sentence of Mr De Wever, said on 9 January 2016: "There is only money in social security." Or do you think the government should go further in this direction? What is your position on the matter today?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u10	Thank you for your question, which gives me the opportunity to look back somewhat satisfied with the result of the Swedish Government, at least the part of it that we have walked along. That was actually a cool government. She has managed to reduce the tax burden. It has managed to bring the public debt below 100 %. She has not only reduced taxes and public debt, but she has also succeeded, Mr Hedebouw, in helping a lot of extra people to get a job. Maybe that's the difference. I'm okay with that. I think having a job is an added value. This is important not only for the person himself, so that he strengthens himself individually, but also for all of us, because in this way no benefits must be paid, but, on the contrary, income can be obtained, in a positive way. Those people will be working for our state. You also said that we wanted to save a huge amount of money. (laughs) A bit serious, in Belgium it is simply impossible to reform very strongly. This country just won't allow it. That is also what we have established. Yes, we have been able to do all kinds of things with the Swedish Government, but this country is not structurally reshapeable. That is simply not possible, unless one chooses confederalism, unless one goes for firm recipes. I would also advise you to look on the social media at a very sensible economist, Bart Van Craeynest. A few days ago, he posted a nice chart in which you can see what I just proved: there was no huge savings on public spending. They have just continued to rise because economic growth has also continued to increase. GDP continued to increase. The economy grew and in absolute terms spending is thus continuing to rise. There has been no huge saving, as you are trying to put into the market. Those are the simple facts. I shall come back to employment policy and the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u11	Mr Loones, this debate was held in the government. There may also be a debate on the bilan. The political positioning of the N-VA in the government was earlier socio-economic right. I asked you whether you still support Mr De Wever's political stance that social security should be cut today. I have heard your answer, but you do not answer the question. If you were in the government, would you cut social security? There was also a concrete debate at the time on the financing of hospitals. Does the N-VA still have the same position or has it changed its position?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u12	Mr Hedebouw, you should know this. If you were to say to me in institutional questions that I do not understand, I would be hurt in my honour. Social security is used, among other things, to pay benefits to people who do not have a job. If we succeed in helping these people to get a job, as we did in the previous government with 200,000 people, less benefits will be paid and the social security budget will be reduced. The State's budget will be able to increase at the same time because working people can also pay their share of the taxes. With that money, we will be able to pursue a sensible policy again. It seems strange to me that you don't see that. It should be your core expertise to know that working is linked to taxes and non-working is linked to benefits. We prefer people to be in the first category. We encourage everyone not to stick to unemployment benefits. When they have the skills to work, we will help and guide them to a job. Of course, there are people for whom that is not possible. That is precisely what social security exists to enable those who really need it to provide that support effectively. You should know that. That should be basic knowledge for you. The budget is in the red figures, and so is social security, because there are a lot of benefits and support to be paid. The only way we can reverse this is to get more people to work so that less benefits are paid. This should actually be everyone's ambition. It's our ambition. It doesn't matter what color the government has. Each government must ensure that more people work to ensure that social security remains social and secure. This is not the subject of discussion, but the question is how to achieve it and how credible it is. What does this government say? It will cover an employment rate of 80% in 2030. For your information, in Flanders, the employment rate is already about 74 %. In West Flanders it is almost 80%. In Brussels and Wallonia it is now around 60 to 64 %. So there is still work to be done. So we're going to 80 % employment in 2030. That's your ambition. What have you done with that in your budget? You took a measuring sheet and you laid that sheet between 2024 and 2030 and drew a line. Then you said that we want to do that, so that will be magical. This means that, logically, there will be a number of consequences. Very specific: next year there will be extra people at work because we have said on paper that they will be working. We don't know how we're going to do that yet, but we're pretending that's already the case, and we're even gonna bring in payback effects in our budget. We're counting on 50 million euros in payback effects. That's your bubble. You take your measuring sheet and you're going to do some magic and you expect this to happen automatically. Let's get back to the real world. What happens in the real world? There is a recent analysis by the National Bank that Corona will reduce 140,000 jobs, especially in the private sector. There will be fewer jobs, but you hold on to the fiction that there will be more jobs, while the National Bank says that this is not right. You're just ignoring that. You are going to include these figures in your budget. That's just air. Interestingly, not only does the Court of Auditors carry out analyses, it is particularly interesting that the Court is independent and at the service of Parliament. What's interesting about that? It allows a Member of Parliament to request a number of files or fact sheets from the Court of Auditors. Of course we did. I specifically asked for the mail exchange between the Court of Auditors and the government on these payback effects, about the 50 million, because you pretend there will be more people at work. I quote from an e-mail from the Court of Auditors of 16 November: "The measure Increase employment rates. In my view, the answers given by the Secretary of State's cabinet make it clear that this measure has not yet been worked out. I'd like to have that checked with the Cabinet Work, but I don't give you much chance of more information." I can imagine that they were so surprised at the Court of Auditors that there was no information that they decided to send a second e-mail, this time in French: "Pour les effets retour le nombre de personnes mises à l'emploi n'a pas été estimé par un organisme spécialisé," like the Planning Bureau or so on, all of which is not necessary, no specialized body that has calculated this "mais ce nombre a été établi uniquement en fonction de l'objectif politicique du governorement. There are currently no concrete measures to achieve this rate. So I have something to write about." I have a lot to write in my report, says the Court of Auditors. That is the most serious thing about your budget. You pretend that more people are going to work, but you do not even know what reforms you are going to implement. You haven't even started to think about exactly what you'll do. You have not even begun to reform. I refer, by the way, to a tweet by Mr Leysen van Open Vld, who said that the start of the negotiations should actually take place. There are some prints on paper in the coalition agreement and we've thrown up 50 million of them, which is more than for the Brexit. But we don't really know what we're going to do. Payback effects, hopla, solved. It is even worse than that, because if your government then takes measures in the field of labour market policy, then it is rather measures that encourage people not to work or to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u13	Colleagues, may I ask you to conduct your conversations in the hallway and show some respect for the speaker?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u14	We will undoubtedly discuss labour market policy and your government's exotic plans, such as Ecolo's 3 billion magic grant. That will all be dealt with in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u15	Madam President, my apologies for the noise that has been made. The reason I spoke with my fellow group leaders nearby was because we were asking ourselves again what had been agreed in the Conference of Presidents with regard to speaking times. From memory, what had been agreed was 30 minutes per group. Mr. Loones started at 10:15 a.m. The exchange with Mr. Hedebouw lasted 5 to 6 minutes, with the big ladle. If we do not remember the rules at the beginning of the debate, then they will not be respected. I therefore wonder about the agreements reached at the Conference of Presidents: what are they for? Mr. Loones started at 10:15. It's 10:48: it's already more than half an hour. He was interrupted for five or six minutes. A priori, he has to finish at 10:50. I do not want to replace the presidency of Parliament. Let it be clear: each one's role. But I think that an agreement had been reached at the Conference of Presidents for half an hour for each group. I just want to remind you. I also want it to be respected. Indeed, a decision by the Conference of Presidents is not nothing in this House. I apologize for the hustle and bustle. It was a question of confirming the principle that we had adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u16	Mr Laaouej, for the record, the half-hour speaking time has not yet been exceeded, since the interruption does not count as speaking time. So you're a little early with your comments. The agreement reached at the Conference of Presidents is very clear: it was asked not to interfere too much and it was asked that each group should stick to the speaking time. Until now, however, my explanation may also be deducted from the speaking time, but Mr Loones keeps to his speaking time, so you should have waited for your comment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u17	First of all, I would like to congratulate you, Madam President, on your pertinent performance when there is a rumble in the Chamber. This happens frequently and is not noticed sufficiently. We have spacious walkways, everyone has a lot of time to chat with each other. The few colleagues who are allowed in this room are, for there are many colleagues at the door, but because of the corona conditions they should not be expected to follow the debate carefully. Secondly, you have replied, and Mr Laaouej knows that if we start asking questions about him or his group, for example, in his interpretation, we would make it impossible for him to make any speech. The interruptions by Mr Hedebouw had, I suppose, the intention of repeating the basics of the economy, and so did Mr Loones, but it is difficult to say that this was part of his speech. I therefore believe that the 30 minutes should indeed be regarded as 30 minutes net speaking time, and you have interpreted that appointment correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u18	You tell me I intervened too early, I think I intervened at the right time. Mr. Loones' intervention, if counted as a net balance, was from 10:15 a.m. to 10:45 a.m., or half an hour. It's 10:50, that's it! Mr. Hedebouw's speech is in the order of 5 minutes. You add the two minutes that have just passed because of my intervention, and that is not beyond. Either we respect the rules or we do not respect them, but I believe that what is decided in the Conference of Presidents makes sense. I therefore call on Mr Loones to include him in the development of his speech and to ensure that this is respected. I think I can say that it is a matter of fairness and respect for the commitments made.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u19	I fully agree with that, Mr Laaouej, but you intervened at 10:43 a.m. So you were too early anyway. Now we have been talking for ten minutes about the speaking time, which was not over at the time. You yourself admit that there have been interruptions and that there is therefore time. I suggest that Mr Loones should be able to use that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u20	If you'd let me talk, you'd be off the hook by now. Then you could have just ignored all those comments from the experts and the Court of Auditors again. I intend to keep the appointments. It is important in politics to be a man of his word, Mr Laaouej, but here I would like to ask how many minutes I have left. I'll keep my duty to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u21	You have seven minutes, Mr. Loones.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u22	I'll try to do it with less. I would have liked to talk to you about migration policy, but we will have another topic debate on this, including with Mr Francken. There is the fact that there is less budget for return and more for asylum reception. That's the choice your government makes. I would also have liked to have talked to you about justice and how Minister Van Quickenborne deals with reality in a rather special way. He creates the impression that he gets an extra 300 million euros for his Department of Justice. We also have quotes from the Court of Auditors on this. Mr Van Quickenborne says, among other things, that he will receive money from a billion euros in commissions that still have to be distributed. The Court of Auditors says that there is no detailed distribution of that billion euro. Even the Court of Auditors says: "Mr Van Quickenborne, what you say in the television studios..." I will not finish my sentence, but I have another quote from the Court of Auditors. We will talk about this later. I also wanted to talk about the European Union and its contribution. You may have noticed, ladies and gentlemen: the last year we were in the government, the Belgian contribution to the European budget was around EUR 6 billion each year. Next year it will be EUR 7.5 billion. This is an additional EUR 1.5 billion contribution for the European Union. Soon we will undoubtedly debate whether these moneys are well spent. Are these transfers to the South and Eastern Europe wise? Of course, there is also a positive return. What is the balance sheet of the single European market? We will certainly have the debate on this later, but at least EUR 1.5 billion will go towards Europe every year. So that amount will not be able to be spent on, I am just saying, our pensions. However, I will not talk about this. I would like to touch on two other points, namely your commitment not to introduce new taxes and the new political culture. No new taxes. There are two thousand pages of text and figures for it and I have been looking for it for a long time, but I have not found it. More specifically, I have been looking for the halving of the withholding tax. We know that negotiations took place during the summer and that there was a beginning of agreement between my party chairman, Bart De Wever, and the party chairman of the PS, Mr Magnette. There was a reason to introduce some kind of security tax that could eventually raise some money, but in return, immediately from the first day, the withholding tax would be halved, resulting in a tax saving of around EUR 2 billion. I looked for that in the budget. After all, I had an interview last summer in De Morgen with Mr De Gucht, former minister, former party chairman and former European Commissioner for Open Vld. That interview was conducted at the time that Bart De Wever and Paul Magnette were discussing that deal. Mr De Gucht stated that it would not be illogical for his party to do some sort of exchange between some kind of securities tax and a reduction in the withholding tax. So Mr De Gucht agreed with Bart De Wever. That's why I've been looking, but I didn't find it. The reduction in withholding tax is simply not included.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u23	Mr Loones, the Prime Minister would like to give you some extra time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u24	Mr Laaouej, will you keep an eye on the clock, please?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u25	Mr Loones, you say that you have been looking, and we have also been looking for this so-called agreement that would have existed between two parties. I note that this agreement has been defended by very few. If that agreement had ever been reached, both parties would not have walked away from that agreement faster than their shadow. That's weird. If there is an agreement, it is defended. At some point, that text was made public. I've been looking, too. And I did a really good job of looking. You were just talking about the halving of the withholding tax. I've really been searching the text made public by your people. I didn't find that. Where is the halving of the withholding tax? Because in the text you have made public, it is not mentioned anywhere. You're gonna have to explain that to me. Where exactly was that? Or is that part of an agreement that might still exist somewhere? Or perhaps that agreement never existed? It's possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u26	Prime Minister, you can hide behind the letters and words, but not behind the figures. I'll get you the passage, no problem. You do not opt for tax savings, you opt for new taxes. That is the simple reality, and that shows your budget. I'll deliver the passage. So I did not find it in your budget, even though this was recommended by Mr De Gucht. However, I have found a promise that every time there are budget pits, which close down with a third reform, a third new tax and a third of various measures. Certainly the Minister of Finance knows this discussion because we have built it up in committee. However, it is important that you also hear this discussion. The Court of Auditors states in its report that when adding a number of figures that intended distribution is incorrect. This is very specific about a number of reforms which are also listed in the report and which are worth around EUR 334 million. The sum of various measures is exactly EUR 300 million. The fight against tax fraud amounts to 200 million and the smoother collection of crossborder traffic fines stands for 100 million. Then you would expect the new taxes to amount to 300 million. But there's 700 million, double that. That means your own promise will just be broken. You do not choose a third new tax, you choose half new tax. By the way, you are pretending that the impact tax will only end up on the strongest shoulders. There will soon be a debate as to why this is not the case. So at least half of your measures come from new taxes. The fight against tax fraud and the collections crossborder are also very close to new taxes. Around one billion out of the 1.3 billion you want to achieve is therefore in the sphere of new revenue, and certainly not in the sphere of savings and reforms. I still want to be gentle and keep it on half new taxes. That is quite at odds with what you yourself have promised, Prime Minister. In the beginning, we asked the Secretary of State for the Budget, Eva De Bleeker, and she explained that the securities tax should not be included for the fixed exercise of EUR 4 billion, but should be included for the fixed exercise of EUR 3 billion. We are terribly sorry, but a tax is a tax, so that is a reasoning that does not really make sense. Then came the debate with the Minister of Finance, who actually gave a much more honest answer and admitted that the ratio of a third, a third and a third was not respected, but he promised that this would be an ambition in the longer term and that eventually the government would keep its word. You will have to forgive me for the fiscal track record in the first few months of your government is similar to the fact that a lot will have to be done to increase that confidence, also in view of ignoring the experts and a number of costs that are not included. I'm just finding that you're choosing half new taxes. I conclude with your last promise: the promise to do things differently, a new policy. We have had this debate in the context of the provisional twelfths. You choose a bigger government. In the meantime, we are seeing the effects of this in this final budget. The answer is that it is logical that the government costs more because it is also larger. Of course, it's your choice to go for a bigger government. You say that you should not be blamed for the fact that the government is made up of many parties, and that is why it is bigger and more expensive. We have checked this and your government is about 10% larger, but it costs 25% more. Explain to me how this is an example of a new political culture. Soon we will have the debate on the party dots and, undoubtedly, on the staff of the former ministers. These are all things you do not do, but what you do is increase the budget for your own cabinets by 25%. There's a point that strikes me, and that's the Cabinet Pensions. In the previous government, the Cabinet of Pensions was with Daniel Bacquelaine of MR. At that time, the budget was about 2.2 million. Now that cabinet sits with Minister Lalieux of PS, who has a few smaller additional powers besides Pensions, in particular Social Integration and Combating Poverty. Her cabinet costs 1 million more. Mr Bacquelaine 2.2 million, Mrs Lalieux 3.3 million because she has a few more small powers. I think there's a typo in your budget somewhere. I cannot imagine that your government, which says it wants to increase pensions, has increased the budget for the Cabinet Pensions. I'm guessing this isn't the point. It is not the intention to increase cabinet costs, but rather to increase pensions. I would like an answer to that question, Prime Minister. Is it a typo? I can imagine that it is not true that the budget for the Pension Office increases by more than 50%, a million euros as it goes from an MR minister to a PS minister. I decide. I started the speech in the European Parliament. I thought that was an appropriate place because I remember a number of debates there. When I look at your budget, I see a number of good things about which we will be discussing later, but I see, above all, details which very often also creep in European budgets. I have seen this European budget over the last few years, and what is to be seen? Those European budgets continue to rise, always more, always bigger, more European budget. Our contribution increases to 7.5 billion. That is also what we see in your budget. It keeps on rising, there is no serious reform, deficits are piling up, public debt is rising. What else stands out in this European budget? There are reforms, but they are always far too little. The European Union is, in fact, stuck too much in old political recipes, with far too many transfers to South and Eastern Europe and far too little new policies, new investments in migration and security, in innovation. In all honesty, that is also what I see in your budget. I can hear those raging slogans, but here too I see too many old recipes. That European budget is, of course, a budget of a union, of a cooperation of countries. Let us be honest, so are we. This is not a budget of a decent country, it is an aim, a mediocre one who is trying to hide what the real reality is. This is not a country, these are two countries that would be better managed differently.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u27	For the sake of clarity, there were two speakers for the N-VA Group. The second speaker has, of course, been deleted, because it is intended to be filled with all the speakers from the group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u28	Madam President, my Ecolo-Groen Group will allocate half an hour between myself and my colleague Dieter Vanbesien. The budget debate is an important discussion that we have already had in committee. Indeed, beyond the figures, it is the translation of the policy of a coalition government into concrete measures. It is also important because in this country we have not voted a full-year budget for three years. We have been holding debates over the provisional twelfths for three years, and budgets, which are repetitions of the last clean-up done three years ago. I want to take this opportunity to highlight the behaviour of the Ecolo-Groen group on this subject. We have always supported the budgets of provisional twelfths. We didn't want a shut down of administration, public services and a whole series of tools that have to work with people who need to be paid, while we were in the opposition. We had never approved these budgets, but we supported these provisional twelfths for the continuity of the State. This has not been the case for all political groups. I really want to stress our behavior over the last three years. This budget is also important because it comes at a very exceptional time of unprecedented economic and health shock in our history. This shock has a much stronger impact than the shocks we experienced in 2008. This crisis will have a major impact. I think we're all convinced of that. It will have an impact both on the mental health of our citizens and on their physical health. In addition, it strikes economically by preventing a range of sectors from working, from continuing their activities. I am thinking of the artists, the horeca, all those local businesses that have reopened under strict conditions but have had to close for long periods of time. I am also thinking of all the people who were already weakened before the crisis of the Covid-19 and who are necessarily now in an even more difficult situation and who are at risk of falling into poverty. The response of the public authorities to this crisis was major; during the first confinement, under the leadership of Kern +10, and today, under the leadership of this government, since 1 October. The first point of my speech will be devoted to this budget in connection with Covid-19. It's a budget that protects. The first objective is to provide the means to fight this virus and to protect our citizens from this unprecedented crisis. Protecting them by strengthening our health care system. Support them in the event of a cessation of their economic activity, whether they are employed or self-employed, or help them with credit refunds or contribution payments. In total, 12.8 billion euros have been released in 2020 by the federal state since the first confinement. I take social security into account, of course. Support for medical staff, bridge law, economic unemployment, temporary unemployment, support for CPAS, carry-over of contributions or end-of-year premium. It is a real shield of economic, social and health protection that was deployed in 2020. This continues in 2021, as more than 2 billion euros are planned compared to the covid-19 for next year. This is quite exceptional, but we fully support the deployment of this shield, because it has helped to limit in part the damage of this unprecedented socio-economic shock. Too many people, still today, unfortunately pass between the meshes of this safety net. I am thinking of the intermittents of the performing arts, the complementary independents, the students, certain liberal professions. But in spite of everything, this shield has had quite incredible efficiency. These efforts will continue in 2021, even if we all hope to be able to return to a stable health situation, and, in any case, to a second half of 2021 which is close to the most standardized situation possible. The second point I want to put forward on behalf of my group concerns structural reforms, apart from the covid-19. For us, it is a real budget of hope that is here on the table. Indeed, beyond the crisis of the Covid-19, this budget reflects the policies and structural measures that this majority wants to take: to reinvest massively in health care, to sustain the balance of social security, to help the people most in difficulty in our society – I am thinking here of raising social benefits or pensions – or, of course, to invest in the ecological transition. "Hope" is really the term which, for us, best characterizes the measures put in place here, because it is mainly a matter of hope for our fellow citizens, as a priority for the most fragile of them. Climate hope also, thanks to reinvestment in climate issues, but also hope for support for our SMEs as well as our entrepreneurs, who are both local and non-local job creators. Among the important points I want to highlight, although we have had detailed discussions on this subject in committee, there is the recurrent budget of EUR 1.2 billion a year for health care, the raising of the lowest pensions from next year – up to EUR 193 million – and the reform of the status of artist that we have been demanding for years and that is now budgeted at EUR 75 million. I will also mention the extension of birth and paternity leave, finally! In this respect, Belgium is entering into modernity with regard to the balance between men and women or between work and family life, but this is above all a signal. Beyond the figures and the budget – 40 million for next year – this is a signal that dads and co-parents must also be present at the time of the arrival of a new member in the family. Finally, I would like to highlight the strengthening of the means for justice and, last but not least, the refinancing of the SNCB and mobility, the means of which had been declining for almost ten years. By the end of 2020, EUR 300 million will have been released for this purpose. In addition, it was announced this week to implement the Boost plan, which is to release an additional EUR 100 million in 2021. As environmentalists say, the train is our freedom, but it is above all a major contribution to the climate goals of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 55%. The last element on which I wanted to intervene, which is also one of the main reasons why ecologists enthusiastically engaged in this Vivaldi coalition, is the investment and recovery plan. There are several priority objectives: mobility via public transport, the energy transition, the ecological transition from our economy to a low-carbon economy and the relocation of our industries and the digital transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u29	Mr Vanden Burre, as far as investments are concerned, we've been looking, but we haven't found much. You say you're going to invest heavily for the climate, but it's an announcement effect as you rely on European money. I have not had an answer on this subject, either from Mrs Khattabi or from Mrs Vanderstraeten: what is the government itself investing in the climate, with federal resources? I have only found the transformation fund, which consists of holdings in private companies. Again, when we ask the minister, we are not told what business it is, how it will work, etc. For us, if you want a carbon-neutral society, it will take massive, public investments to achieve energy savings, energy storage, insulation of buildings, public transport. Indeed, when you talk about SNCB, you come back to savings measures made in the past. That's not enough. A climate investment bank is needed to help cooperatives, local governments. So I wanted to know where that money is. Apart from the transformation fund, we haven't found anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u30	Mr Warmoes, thank you for this question. First of all, we consider that investing an additional EUR 300 million in rail and mobility is a climate-related investment. These are federal state funds and this is already a change, a fundamental shift from the last ten years. Here I have a table showing the evolution of the allocations at SNCB. So investing 300 million euros in public transport is also an investment in the fight against climate change. You mentioned the European Recovery Plan. I would remind you that it provides for a minimum requirement of 38% that must be linked to the ecological transition. The government, with Zakia Khattabi of course, is trying to increase this contribution as much as possible. The transformation fund will also participate, and for the latter, investing in public-private partnerships to achieve our climate goals is also a positive thing for us. I know that there may be a difference between our political groups. But for us, a transformation fund that would invest in business projects, in SME projects, in cooperative projects linked to the energy transition, is positive and it is also going towards the target of a 55% reduction in CO2 emissions by 2030. The President: Mr Warmoes, one last interruption. You know the appointment made at the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u31	I was just going to answer, Madam President. You say 300 million is a changeover. For SNCB, this is not enough if you really want to bet on public transport. Here, you just cancel savings made in the past. The transformation fund is 750 million in four years. It's completely insufficient if you really want to have a transition. And then, sorry, rely on private companies on the market... we've been talking about global warming since 1979. We've been counting on the market for 40 years, and we're where we are today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u32	Mr Warmoes, I note that this is never enough for you. All right. I take note of that. I can tell you that the staffing figures for SNCB are considerable. And then I only mentioned 2020 and 2021. Of course, there will be more. But anyway, I know it's never gonna be enough. Thank you for encouraging us to do even more for the ecological transition of our society. I prefer to take this as encouragement. But I know that whatever we do, it's never gonna be enough. What I can tell you here is that compared to the last ten years, the change of course is tilting, is fundamental, whether in terms of ecological transition or in terms of investment in the just transition, so that no one is left at the edge of the road. I wanted to get involved in the recovery and investment plan of EUR 4.7 billion, which was detailed in the Finance Committee. In these EUR 4.7 billion, there is actually 1 billion already accounted for in the European Recovery Plan. These are policies in favour of families too – I am thinking of the social energy tariff – in favour of the redeployment of our companies with deductions for investments, and also partly in favour of the climate, since, as I said, almost 40% of European funds and processing funds must be linked to the ecological transition. I wanted to say a final word about the budgetary balance and the Court of Auditors' comments. Budgetary balance is obviously important to environmentalists. There's a horizon. A trajectory is proposed, with a target by 2030. But what is especially important for us is that we are no longer in a logic of austerity. Here too, it is a shift from the past. Yes, some efforts will have to be made, and yes, there is a trajectory, but we are no longer in a blind austerity policy, where public services are systematically cut. For us, this is really a fundamental achievement. I also wanted to make some links here with the latest reports of the Court of Auditors. It refers to errors, figures not available, taxable basis that is not known accurately, or other. In fact, the excerpt from this report dates back to 2017, on the 2018 budget, when Johan Van Overtveldt was Minister N-VA of Finance. I am pleased that the Court of Auditors is a serious, professional, apolitical and neutral body, and that it can be critical in some respects of this budget, if not very critical, as it has been in the past. It's his role, I'm glad. Sometimes it is important to put things in perspective, Mr Loones. As you will have understood, it is with enthusiasm but above all with determination that we will support this budget and its implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u33	For the sake of clarity, Mr Vanden Burre, minus the interruption, you have spoken for about 10 minutes, so there is still a lot of time left for your partner, but it will only come in the second round. It has been agreed that at least I have been informed that the second speakers will be speaking in the second round. That has, in fact, always been the custom so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u34	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u35	No, it has always been customary for the second speakers to come in the second round, but they retain the rest of the 20-minute speaking time. You can ask Mr Calvo, who has been there many times. That's always the way it's supposed to be. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u36	Yes, it is. The 20 minutes are retained for Mr Vanbesien, but only at the end. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u37	I will not introduce a new working method as the deputy chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u38	I must admit that I have a doubt about this particular point of the agreement reached in the Conference of Presidents. It seems to me that the second round concerns thematic discussions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u39	Mr Laaouej, if we want to do this differently from today, I suggest that we discuss it at the Conference of Presidents. That didn't happen. It has always been the case that the second speaker comes in the second round.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u40	Madam President, you say in your group's speech that the second speaker has lapsed because the speaking time was used up by Mr Loones. That is all right, but speaking time was allocated to each group and the group distributes it as it wishes. If Ecolo-Green has two speakers and the group remains within the speaking time, which will be possible, since Mr Vanden Burre has only spoken for 10 minutes, that is a first round.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u41	Mr De Block, I have said that the second speaker from the N-VA Group will be withdrawn for later, I did not say for now. We have always followed the same course of action here, and this is also confirmed by the services. We have always done the second speaker in the second round. If you want to change that, you should not ask me now, but you should start that debate in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u42	Madam President, I'm joining you. One speaker per group in the first round has always been the custom. Mr De Block, I think you should consult with your colleague Dewael. We had a furious Patrick Dewael when discussing the policy letter Institutional Reforms, because two speakers from CD&V took the floor and he was eager to speak on behalf of Open Vld. At the same time, he was annoyed by the habit that has been applied over and over again, with only one speaker per group in the first round. I note that you are changing your position here, but that does not alter the fact that agreements made at the Conference of Presidents have to be honoured.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u43	In the other years, as well as in the Parliamentary Finance Committee or in other parliamentary committees, all groups were able to speak one after the other. All groups, not just Ecolo-Groen: the N-VA and maybe your group. The way of working remains that. Let's not change now. Honestly, we respect the overall speaking time and that will not change the proceedings. We've always done that. In the last Parliament, in the opposition, we did so, I can assure you. I was here, and so were you. There is a consensus to move forward in this way. We respect the agreement of the Conference of Presidents. Let's move forward in this way. Otherwise, it would be contrary to what has been decided and that would not be correct. That's really why I'm making it a point of attention. That's not right! You were here yesterday with me in the Conference of Presidents. That's what was decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u44	Mr Vanden Burre, with all due respect, there is no consensus here. The Conference of Presidents shall act by consensus. No new appointment was made at the meeting, so the old agreement applies. The services confirm me here, and I also say from experience that it has always been so. You can check with Mr Calvo, because that has frustrated him for years. We will not change that method now, today. The 20 minutes speaking time will remain, because that is the right of your group, but the second speaker from your group will be speaking in the second round, as has always been the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u45	Madam President, my colleague refers to the committees, but the committees can arrange their own work. The committee sometimes deviates from that rule. That's what I just pointed out. That was the frustration of former President of the Chamber, Patrick Dewael, who always referred to the rules in plenary, one person per group. That was agreed at the Conference of Presidents. There is clearly no consensus here to change that now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u46	Madam President, I believe that we should indeed look at the matter in accordance with the agreed rules. Mr Vanden Burre, you will certainly remember the installation debate that took place in the European Parliament. In that debate, Mr Calvo, of your group, made a remark, and you completed the second period. You may remember that in that second round you came to the very end, not immediately after Mr Calvo. The same principle now applies. As an expert in experience, you should know that that's the plowing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u47	Colleagues, I would like to conclude the discussion. I have the minutes of the Conference here before me. There's no new appointment in there. That means that the agreement of the past is valid. In plenary, the agreement has always been that the second speaker of a political group will speak in the second round. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone wants to stick to the time span, but at the moment we are losing time with something that I do not think is so important. Mr Vanbesien, you have the right to speak for 20 minutes. You may be grateful to your colleague, Mr Vanden Burre, for having so much speaking time in the distribution of the 30 minutes allocated, but you will be discussed in the second round. I now give the floor to Mr Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u48	Madam President, I am not going to epilogue, but we will have to clarify this point. Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is not easy to draw up a budget in normal times; it is even more complicated to do so in this time of difficulty and uncertainty. Uncertainties relate to the health crisis, its economic and social consequences and, therefore, its budgetary consequences. So it's really not simple! Moreover, we have seen this through the differences in macroeconomic forecasts between the Plan Bureau and the European Commission, i.e. between the figures chosen by the Monitoring Committee – based on the forecasts of the Plan Bureau – and those of the European Commission. And this applies both in terms of the loss of economic substance - hence the decline in the wealth created - and in terms of the forecast of the deficits of the financing balance or of the structural balance. The same applies to the development of public debt. This is the challenge for the government: try to keep to a forward-looking roadmap for our public finances. On the other hand, I should like to thank you, Minister of Finance, Minister of Budget and you too, Prime Minister, for having made an act of clarity and even humility – which is rare in politics – by announcing that the forecasts that you presented to us and which, despite everything, allow us to draw up a budget – and I would remind you that we are coming out of a long period of provisional appropriations – would evolve according to the economic and health context to which the government would remain attentive not only at the national level, but also at the international level. In essence, that is what comes out of your budget. Nevertheless, the figures are heavy: 24 billion deficits in the financing balance, that's not nothing! For this reason, we will already meet again at the time of budgetary controls and adjustments to see what needs to be adapted not only to the country's financial interests but also to its economic and social interests. Secondly, from a general and introductory point of view, this budget clearly marks a turning point that turns our backs on a policy of austerity. In view of the size of the deficits, you have chosen not to put pressure on public expenditure, considering that, at this time when it is necessary to be able to combat the health crisis and to reduce the pandemic, it is precisely a number of expenditure which, even if it is current expenditure, is actually real investment. Indeed, when we spend money to reverse the pandemic, it is an investment in the health of our fellow citizens and an investment in reviving our social fabric. You also considered that we should be able to stand alongside our fellow citizens, those who are suffering: the sick, the people who are temporarily unemployed, the self-employed, the entrepreneurs for whom, unfortunately, the trade no longer runs. You have made this choice to be with our fellow citizens. We welcome and encourage this choice and look forward to it being reflected in your budgetary choices. You also made the choice, despite the difficulties, to consider that some departments required an investment. Of course, it will be said that it is insufficient in the head of some – we can hear it – and it will always be inherently insufficient, but in the face of a deficit financing balance of 24 billion, yes, we can welcome the support you give to certain departments as important as Justice or SNCB, as we have pointed out. So we turn our backs on austerity policies. Good! You are following a policy logic of recovery by already telling us that the first elements of a recovery plan are anchored in your 2021 budget. At the same time, let's have a good account! I was still talking to Mr Hedebouw about this. Of course, it takes time to put in place a structural recovery plan. We know that the Regions are in the process of issuing records. We know that you are in dialogue with the European Union. We also know that you are consulting and that you have rightly decided to consult the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u49	All these elements will lead us to learn about this recovery plan when the time comes, but we already see the impetus given in this budget and we must be able to rejoice at it. You also don't want to make brutal choices like we've known in the past. I'll always keep away from the trial of the past. Of course, we must be a minimal courteous person from this point of view. There is no index jump, no massive increase in taxes on consumption. These elements seem interesting and important to me to note.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u50	Mr Laaouej, I have heard you demonstrate that there will be no austerity policy applied by this government. But I am surprised to read in your budget tables the intention to reduce spending in many government departments and in public services. This is a linear decrease of about 2 per cent over a large part of the State departments, and of 0.89 per cent for others. We have calculated, with our study office, that the number of jobs in the public service in 2024 would decrease by 5,000 jobs, based on the figures you put forward. Can you confirm the figure of 5,000 jobs? Do you not find precisely, in times of pandemic, where public authority and public services have shown their effectiveness, that this 2% austerity applied to all of our public services seems to be a major mistake? Don't you think it would be better not to make linear cuts across all of our federal public services?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u51	Mr Hedebouw, no budget or finance minister will be happy to use the "technique" of linear cuts when making a budget. None! It is the ultimate decision in budgetary work that is particularly painful and difficult. I would remind you that the health crisis caused a nominal deficit of EUR 24 billion, which makes us financially vulnerable. I would also remind you that social security is based on the State budget, which is fundamental in that it allows for the daily reimbursement of medicines and health care, but also for people who lose their jobs or do not find them – but who lose them in particular because of the health crisis – an unemployment benefit, which you may consider insufficient, but which has the merit of existing, and finally being able to provide the pension service. Basically, that's all the state budget is based on. When faced with a deficit of 24 billion, the question to be asked is whether we will be able to provide these social and public services – since trains must also be driven – to the whole population. Yes, these are difficult choices. On the other hand, I want to welcome the government's discernment, because this linear reduction of 2% will not apply: it will be half, therefore, of 0.89%. For some, it may already be a lot, but on the mass of public spending, it is marginal for several departments considered essential. These include the FPS Justice, the Asylum and Migration Services (Fedasil), the FPS Public Health, the entire safety of the food chain, the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products, Sciensano, INAMI, Infrabel and a range of other institutions that will not be subject to this linear 2% reduction. They will certainly be subjected to an effort, but they will not be of the same magnitude. And then, if you want to talk about austerity, Mr Hedebouw, I will have to look into my archives, but I will easily find them: in the Martens-Gol years, linear reductions, I believe, were not in the order of 2%; they were dark cuts – remember the principle of anchor and that kind of thing – such that they did not even allow the indexation of several current expenses. Therefore, we are far from the austerity policy which you rightly fear and which would not, on the other hand, receive our assent. At the same time, as the Minister of Finance has pointed out, in a whole series of departments, natural departure replacements will be applied one for one. I will also leave it to the Minister of Public Service to explain in each department how she intends to meet the issue of staff costs. But we are very far away, Mr Hedebouw, from the austerity policies we have experienced in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u52	Mr Hedebouw, it seems to me that we agreed in the Conference of Presidents that there would be as little interruption as possible to allow the groups to be clear, concrete and to have their wishes expressed in relation to the budget as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u53	Madam President, just one intervention for the political conclusion. On the one hand, I understand that the PS representative does not deny the information that 5,000 public jobs will disappear in the federal public service with varying intensities. I cannot accept this speech from "without us, it would be worse"; obviously there is always worse! But 5,000 jobs in the public service are important. The defence of public service is important. I hear here that we make distinctions, but no! In FPS Finance, we're going to cut 2% of the budget. In Mobility, we're going to cut 2% of the budget. These are essential public services and, even in other public services, they are 0.89%. It's not nothing. On this side, we continue this policy which sees public services as a problem, whereas for us, as a left-wing party, public services are rather the solution. I would not have applied, as a left-wing party, linear cuts of 2% in federal public services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u54	Madam President, the PTB is talking about 5,000 jobs. It's not because the PTB says something that's true. The PTB has been wrong in its figures on many occasions, but I do not devote much time and energy to raising it or even denouncing it, because there are other things to do, I believe. When you have a discount in a department, it's not necessarily about staff expenses. The Minister of Finance himself explained that in the FPS Finances, particularly with regard to controls, there would be the replacement of one for one and that, for the rest, it will be up to each department to see how the effort can be distributed. It can be distributed through better functioning, better organization. It is the PTB that invents that it is necessarily 5,000 jobs. Mr Hedebouw, I believe that at some point in a debate, you either make projections and you are obliged to consider your projections as truths, or you consider that it is necessary to be able to examine how certain budgetary objectives are translated into practice. But to say from the outset: "You are told that it will be 5,000 and that, therefore, that is the truth", is a somewhat surprising way of leading the debates. A little humility, Mr. Hedebouw! Don't make up a trial of intent! Don't make up figures that are just assumptions and can only be verified a posteriori! For the rest, I would like to point out, Mr Hedebouw, that under the Di Rupo government, for example, we did not wait for you to strengthen the Special Tax Inspectorate. We have increased its staff by a hundred agents who, as you know, are officials who fight tax evasion. It's not the PTB, Mr. Hedebouw! It's the Socialist Party! We'll probably have an opportunity to talk about it when Mr. Van Hees will speak but let us compare the balance sheets: that of the PTB, for 40 years that you have existed and that of the Socialist Party since we were in power. We will see the comparison. That's a lot of blabla! The PTB has existed for 40 years, but there is absolutely nothing to improve people's daily lives. As a result of the PTB, have there been any pension increases or salary increases? For the past 40 years, has the PTB improved workers' social rights? Apart from the blabla or your shows once a week with the great lyrics in the gallery, what have you actually brought to the public? What did you bring to the workers, except the fine speeches? The balance sheet of the PTB for the past 40 years that you exist is zero, nothing, nada! All speeches! It's nothing but And again, about 40 years ago, your goal was to set up a communist regime in Belgium and collectivize everything. At the time, the model was the Soviet Union. It wasn't China because at some point, too, you changed your obedience and influence a little bit. What is the status of the PTB? I don't see him, except for the blabla.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u55	Mr Laaouej's answer is interesting. It endorses the austerity applied to our public services and the contribution of the PTB in relation to this is indeed to fight because reducing the action of a left-wing party to the question of Parliament is that the weakness. Paid leave, social security, it's on the street that we've been looking for them! This is social history! Take the very good example of pensions. What have we done about pensions? The debate on minimum pensions was non-existent in this House four years ago, non-existent! We launched a popular campaign for a minimum pension of EUR 1,500 net and obtained 180,000 signatures. What party other than the PTB can boast of achieving such an objective? Since we went to get those 180,000 signatures in the field, you need to talk to the government. I remind you that four years ago, no one was talking about this minimum pension of 1,500 euros. We have put this item on the agenda! I must admit that honour is not just for the PTB but for the social struggle. In my opinion, Mr.Laaouej, the PS problem is that he agrees to reduce the public service once again. Don't avoid the debate! A 2% linear cut in Federal Public Services (FPS) is not right! Public services are the solution. I don't want to hear blah, but to see deeds! Today's reality is that public service workers will have fewer jobs in the sector, fewer jobs to service in Mobility, to service at the FPS level Finance. That is the reality! It's been 30 or 40 years since the PS said it would be worse without him and we see that social gains are receding in our country. Rather than question each other, the PS boasts to do this or that, but it doesn't work anymore!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u56	Of course I am not going to continue the debate with Mr Hedebouw infinity, but, I repeat, the PTB has been holding the same speeches for 40 years! For 40 years, the PTB has been crying out for scandal! The PTB has been agitating in every direction for 40 years! For 40 years, no measures have been adopted thanks to the PTB, because the PTB is not intended to bring about concrete improvements for the population, it is intended to denounce. It's not a political party, it's a pressure group. In addition, it arrogates itself the social conquests that have been acquired through social movements, thanks to the large trade unions or organizations representative of the workers. In other words, not only has the PTB not brought anything to our society, but it takes ownership of the work of workers, trade union delegates and those who have actually fought to improve the social situation of workers. On the other hand, and this is his nerve, he comes to constantly attack the Socialist Party rather than attack the right-wing parties. The Socialist Party, which has always put its hands in the country to ensure that the social rights of workers, their pensions, social benefits, social minima or the refinancing of social security are increased. This is a stocktaking, and it was not the PTB that made it, it was the Socialist Party! Let's be clear! I'll try to continue, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u57	Go on, Mr. Laaouej!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u58	Thank you. We are working on an ambitious recovery plan. Mr Hedebouw, you will still have the opportunity to talk and say the same software again, to continue attacking left-wing parties rather than focusing on budget work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u59	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u60	Mr Hedebouw, you will have your time to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u61	Mr. Hedebouw is not here to talk about the budget. He's here to do polemics all the time. Madam President, I propose that we should be able to reserve our speaking time to develop our views on the budget. I have no doubt that Mr. Van Hees will explain the position of the PTB. I'll have an opportunity to answer him.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u62	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u63	No, Mr. Hedebouw, you will have your time!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u64	I was talking about investments. Justice, security, mobility and all the essential functions of the State are already finding an important start to refinancing through this budget. With regard to the fight against tax fraud, I am also pleased, Mr. Minister of Finance, that you have met with the College for the fight against fraud. You set up this coordination college. I really think it can make a difference. As you said at the outset, it is not a question of integrating all the services which, in one way or another, work to combat financial crime, particularly major tax fraud. Rather, you are in the process, which had been used at the time of John Crombez, which I greet in passing, to coordinate working methods, to exchange information on the major flows of fraud. I think that thanks to this, the budget target of EUR 200 million is clearly realistic. This is obviously a budget target of 200 million in addition to the usual performance of departments such as the Special Tax Inspectorate. With this tool, this target of 200 million is quite realistic and will, I believe, be able to be verified in practice. Another element that we believe is also important is that we continue in the direction of lifting bank secrecy in the event of fraud, with the necessary discernment, the protection of privacy. Of course, it is not a question of seeing from the history of the extracts of account what they do with their money, but of having access to the balances in case of an index of fraud. Contrary to what is being said, the evidence of fraud is something that the tax administration does regularly, but it notifies it beforehand. Thus, taxpayers, natural persons or legal persons, can explain how there is or is not an index of fraud. Notwithstanding this rule, it is clearly a step forward that will enable us, too, to strengthen the effectiveness of tax control, and therefore of tax justice. The same applies to the strengthening of MOTEMs, i.e. services which, at the level of the police, are specialized in the fight against tax fraud and financial crime. All these elements clearly indicate the government's willingness to move forward. On the other hand, there are also a number of clear and visible ambitions to ensure that Europe finally takes on its responsibilities, particularly with regard to the taxation of multinationals. We are talking a lot about GAFAM, but in general, as a Member State of the European Union, we will not be able to get out of it if we do not have a common approach to the taxation of multinationals, with the principle of taxing and taxing profits where wealth has been produced. Mr. Minister of Finance, you have an important role to play here. After a few years, I would not say an empty chair policy but too soft a plea at European level, there is an opportunity for you, together with your European colleagues, to move forward and continue to move forward. Interesting steps have been taken, but there is a clear need for political will. It is in the interest of all States to ensure that the profits derived from the wealth produced in Europe can be partly returned, as is the case for all other companies, to the credit unions of the Member States. Similarly, as far as the tax on financial transactions is concerned, the work must be put back on the trade. Here too, we must continue to think that it is possible to move forward with a number of other States towards a levy – like what exists in our States such as the exchange transaction tax – on financial transactions that have an international dimension and that sometimes and almost all the time pass through digital channels, and to find a source of financing that will allow us both to identify resources for recovery plans and to refinance development cooperation, for example. It is also, I believe, a source of structural financing. It is up to you and your European colleagues to see whether this should be subtracted, if I may say so, from national contributions. I believe that faced with the challenges we face at this time, it is essential to be able to devote these resources to recovery policies. On the issue of the use of resources, I would like to commend the government, which has already begun to raise a number of social minima, raise GRAPA and raise minimum pensions. In short, it tries, as far as possible, to have a real income policy, a policy that is just socially and economically effective. As is well known, the supplementary income that you allocate to these particularly vulnerable audiences has a return effect on the economy, since it is households that have virtually no savings capacity so that, in one way or another, these means return to economic channels and, therefore, through compulsory levies, replenish the State funds, whether public or social. This is a good measure – the Court of Auditors has not failed to recall – with the aim of raising pensions in particular. There's a tax and parafiscal return. It is something that is obviously quite notable. Madam President, these are the elements that I wanted to indicate in my speech. We will certainly come back to a whole series of complementary topics during the thematic debates. I come to a little more general conclusion. The country is going through a difficult period and, faced with this, managing public finances is a considerable challenge. At the same time, however, we must be able to make the choice of being with our fellow citizens. I believe that this budget reflects this concern. We must also be able to send a message of hope. You'll tell me that a budget is something arid that doesn't lend itself to a message of hope. But I believe, on the contrary, that people, through the choices we make in terms of our economic, social and financial policy, expect us to be able to tell them that we will not let them down, that we will be at their side and that it is together – our community, in other words our public authorities, but also our economic, social, associative fabric – that we will rise to the challenge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u65	Madam President, I will shorten my speech if necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, by submitting this budget, the purple-green government is throwing a boomerang, which will return to the face of this government at the first budgetary control. The assessment of this first budget of purple-green is unbearable. Firstly, the economic prospects used are totally unrealistic: the government is masking the economic situation. Secondly, the revenue is systematically overrated: the government counts itself rich. Thirdly, expenditure is structurally underestimated: the bill is actually shamelessly passed on to the next generations. Fourthly, measures remain vague and unclear. This government acts in divided order of battle and causes confusion. That is not just what we say, but also people like Professor Wim Moesen, Professor of Public Finance and Budget Expert. Mr Moesen said: 'The first budget of the Croo Government is far too optimistic and not sufficiently ambitious'. He also rightly wonders when Belgium will finally deliver reliable budget figures. The Court of Auditors and the European Commission are also truly devastating about the first budgetary work of this purple-green government. It is clear from the European Commission's analysis that Belgium is doing very badly at European level, and that is actually very understated. As Mr Loones said, except for Spain, Belgium has the largest deficit in all the euro countries. Belgium is now also definitively one of the so-called Club Med countries, the weak, indebted countries of Europe, the South European problem countries with torrential sovereign debt, an inefficient public administration and serious doubts about the stability of their tax revenues. Thanks to Corona, Belgium escapes the European criminal record, but no later than the budgetisation of 2022, in a small year's time, the dramatic Belgian public finances come back to the European table. The European Commission is also making firewood out of the prospects set out by this government. Growth, consumption, exports, imports, domestic demand, unemployment, productivity, public debt, as well as any economic parameter, is, according to the European Commission, overestimated by this government. According to the European Commission, the estimates are not only too optimistic, they are also totally unrealistic. The reddish budget is therefore far too bright. This budget was in fact obsolete before it was ever tabled. None of the effects of the second corona wave and the lockdown are taken into account, let alone the Brexit is taken into account. The first budgetary control of 2021 will therefore require a thorough recalculation. We find the same negative opinion at the Court of Auditors. This control body is questioning revenue and savings in excess of EUR 3 billion. 3 billion euros, colleagues! The Court of Auditors is unable to see how the government intends to obtain the expected profits, and in many cases the government itself does not know that either. In the case of public administration savings, for example, a division has to be agreed with the departments. The planned savings on the RVA are still to be examined. The Court of Auditors has not received any additional information on the better collection of foreign fines. Finally, there is no detailed calculation of the fight against social and tax fraud. It has already been said by Mr Loones: the government cannot provide an accurate analysis of the intended payback effects of, for example, increasing the level of activity, the reintegration of long-term ill or raising the lowest pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, this government is therefore a wealthy government. Sometimes, even today, I get a feeling of déjà vu, not like that of Mr Loones to the Di Rupo government, but to another government. With the poisonous cocktail of far too optimistic expectations and totally uncertain income, after twenty years, this government seems to be back in line with the tradition of the Verhofstadt I government, which triggered the budgetary weakening of our country and completely derailed the budget. With so-called miscellaneous, one-off measures and counting themselves richly on the fight against fraud, the ancient demons of the previous purple-green governments seem to reappear. The Verhofstadt I government broke with the reorganisations of the Dehaene governments and started to increase spending. The new coalition agreement already contains a great deal of expenditure, but its financing is being shifted to the future. The billions of social expenditure have been acquired, but the funding needs to be seriously questioned. The Liberals and the Christian Democrats in Parliament have therefore fallen into the left-wing expenditure trap: the red-green billion bills are becoming increasingly clear, but how much new taxes and debts will eventually be made remains a mystery with the budget today. The much-needed reforms to help pay these invoices are also missing or unclear. So the government leaves it to figure out where it gets the money. Many budget lines are limited to an objective or intention. The debate is simply being pushed forward and we know, of course, why this debate is being pushed forward. It is, of course, easier to keep the peace between seven parties if expenditure is increased and the debate on revenue is pushed forward, if it is not clear who will ultimately pay the bill. That is, of course, the toll we all pay for this seven-party monster coalition and no less than four different ideologies. By increasing spending even further without eventually reforming, the government shamelessly forwards the bill to the next generations. Not only do we say that, but also Mr Hendrik Bogaert of CD&V wrote in his disapproving explanation of vote on the coalition agreement. I quote him: 'The government's budgetary plans are irresponsible to our children and grandchildren and bring us straight to the column of weak guilty countries.' Mr Bogaert has, of course, been right, perhaps sooner than he himself could have expected. Already after two months, the new purple-green government is definitively assigned to the Club Med countries, the weakest and most guilty countries in Europe. The government is making a budgetary effort of less than EUR 1 billion for 2021 and, on the other hand, is planning a small 2 billion in new policies. For each euro the government finds, two euros are spent. That is a disastrous way of doing politics. There will be no buffers for future crises and they will inevitably come. The sustainability of public finances is not only under pressure, but also the cost of ageing is not adequately financed. This inevitably also jeopardises the affordability of pensions, because the promised increase in pensions to EUR 1,500 cannot be an alternative to pension reform. There is a need for a global pension reform that will, in particular, secure the long-term financing of the pension system, especially now that the corona crisis is putting even greater pressure on public finances. The corona crisis increases the need for a fundamental debate on the great challenges of this country, but the debate on how to deal with these federal challenges is not being conducted in this Parliament. Government seizures in this country will rise to a hallucinating 60% of GDP this year. Let that get through to you. The government has proven in recent years that it cannot manage our money properly. The country with the highest taxes finally became the country with the worst health report in the world. Belgium became the worst affected country in terms of corona. The high level of public debt therefore does not guarantee the best policy, quite the contrary. If Belgium were a company, the nv Belgium, that company would have been bankrupt long ago. Liberals have been part of any government in this country for 20 years and the government's seizure has only increased. Prime Minister, the free enterprise and the private sector in this country are really being crushed by the overly fat government. While you are being served by your butler, while ministers are being pampered by their private chef, the private sector in this country is succumbing to new taxes and many sectors are becoming bankrupt. The hospitality industry, the event sector, the contact professions and many forgotten sectors are becoming increasingly desperate. Last Monday, the National Bank reiterated that Belgian public finances have become totally unsustainable. The governor of the National Bank said: "In 2023, the National Bank expects a deficit of 6%. In the long term, there must be a credible reduction in the deficit, otherwise interest rates risk rising. In such a structural deficit, we no longer have a buffer to absorb the next shock. At that time, we are at risk of having no more choice than to pursue a brutal reorganisation policy." So the governor warns of a Greek scenario. The fact that Belgium is becoming Greece on the North Sea is also seen in the budget of resources. About half of the funds are covered by revenue and as much as half are covered by loans. So no less than half must be borrowed to meet the spending drive of the governments in this country. Therefore, for every EUR 100 that the Belgian Government needs in terms of resources, 50 euros are borrowed. It is a situation which is totally unsustainable in the medium and long term. More than a deficit as a percentage of GDP reflects the reality of spending in this country. Instead of talking about a budget of resources or revenue, it would be more appropriate to talk about a budget of debt. In 2018, 40% of the revenue was covered by loans. If we ignore the 2020 corona year, so apart from the impact of corona, we see an increasing use of loans as a form of financing of the federal government. Institutions or companies facing declining revenues, such as Belgium today, should initially look for savings in their own devices and seek more efficient spending, higher effectiveness and efficiency gains, but the federal government does not. What is deemed necessary is simply additional borrowing on the capital market. So an easy solution is chosen. The corona crisis is ultimately the perfect alibi for a shameless debt policy. Colleagues, we sometimes say that what cannot be laughed at is not the truth. In the budget of resources we see and read literally the following: "As far as possible, the term Treasury was chosen to replace it with the term Federal Debt Agency." The dry humour of this government goes so far as to suggest that it no longer use the well-known term "Coffin," but rather "Federal Debt Agency." That is, of course, very cynical, colleagues. Belgium has no treasury at all, only a huge amount of debt. If there was another treasure chest, it'd be full of debt papers. That's only gonna get worse with this government. The political class in this country has failed badly. She has not managed to stand strong when an unprecedented crisis approaches us. Belgium has started the corona crisis with a huge debt well, a huge financial well. This country wasn't prepared. Many people, employers and employees, will have to pay the price for this for years to come. Countries such as the Netherlands and Germany can do much more today for their businesses and their own people, because of course they have the necessary reserves. Countries that had their budgets in order before the corona crisis are now much better armed to absorb that shock. The Flemish Interest is today tabling amendments to the budget which together represent EUR 1 billion in savings. That is more than necessary, colleagues. The government wants to flatten our people. We want to save money on surplus institutions, such as the Senate, to keep the Cabinets chaste, to remove the anti-competitive subsidies to newspapers and to force a reduction in our contribution to the European Union. We want to save money on Belgium, on Europe, on asylum and on the political system, not on our own people. We read in the general explanatory statement to this budget that it is necessary to ensure by 2021 that the early revival of the economy is not driven by ill-thought-out revenue or expenditure measures. Ladies and gentlemen, for the attentive and critical readers we are, this clearly means that the pursuit of budgetary discipline is not being pursued. Also for the rest of this legislature. We have just heard colleagues Vanden Burre and Laaouej, from Ecolo and the PS, not by chance two Walloon parties. They have explicitly confirmed the farewell of budgetary discipline. This government is aiming for gender balance, but clearly no longer for a budget balance. In 2014, the elections in Belgium were still about the need to finally put the derailed government accounts in order. Each party then presented to the electorate its calculated trajectory how and when the budgetary balance could be achieved. Today, the dark red figures hardly seem to awaken anyone in Parliament, except, of course, us, the opposition. That is a remarkable observation. Not only do we have a government dominated by Walloon parties, we now have a government characterised by Walloon budgetary laxity. Belgium now has not only the most left-wing government ever, but now also officially a Walloon budget. Colleagues, the core trip has been a passport for the Prime Minister more often. Verhofstadt then gained his first prime ministership by promising the Greens the core exit. You too, Prime Minister De Croo, were finally prepared to risk the affordability and security of supply of our energy supply in return for the highest political office. That will, of course, place an enormous burden on the appalling budget in this country and future generations. The key exit will impose additional burdens on the budget in two ways. On the one hand, the additional cost of billions of grants to the gas plants will not be visible on the electricity bill. No, they are being transferred to the budget. That's just a political magic trick. In the meantime, our electricity bill has become a second tax bill. The costs are therefore transferred from the second tax bill to the first tax bill, our real tax return. It is not because taxes are shifted from the electricity bill to the budget that the taxpayer will ultimately not pay for it. On the other hand, gas plants are of course extremely polluting. This is the second impact on the budget: Belgium will have to pay more than likely additional allowances due to the core exit, which will also weigh on the fragile budget of this country. As President-in-Office of Open Vld, Egbert Lachaert opposed the core step with his hands, but in the meantime it is clear that not Green, but Open Vld has burned her programme ritual because of the premiership. Colleagues, next year Fedasil will receive almost half a billion euros. The cost of Fedasil has been in the elevator for years. Since 2010, the cost of asylum reception has increased by more than a third. That is the huge toll of open border policy under Maggie De Block, Theo Francken and today under purple-green. Our country was particularly hard hit by the corona crisis. The way out of this budgetary and socio-economic crisis is still going to be long and hard. Every penny in the budget should now go to our own people and restore our own economy. Many families, especially poor families, suffered financial losses during the corona crisis. Hundreds of thousands of workers and self-employed people are in danger of losing their jobs. Many tens of thousands of companies are in danger of going bankrupt. That is where we believe the government's priority and focus should be, not Fedasil's. The cost of return will then decrease from EUR 10 million to EUR 6.7 million. While the cost of asylum has increased by one third, the means of return fall by one third. After all, neither the coalition agreement nor the statements by the new Secretary of State, 'Makke Mahdi', show some ambition to halt the massive influx.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u66	Mr Colebunders asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u67	Mr Vermeersch, you only talk about saving, saving, saving, but nowhere do I hear the word 'taxes'. That may be right, but I want to know something about that. You said just now that the government consists of a lot of parties with their own ideology, but that it is a red-blooded government that is destroying everyone. I find it strange that you only talk about saving, because where will you get the money? Do you want to solve the crisis by saving only? You refer to the past and that is your right, but we must look to the future. In the future, the money has to come from somewhere. Let me take the example of the securities tax, which you have firmly voted against. We have also done so, but for another reason. When you call the government blood red, she does come up with an effect tax, which you vote away, then I assume you're looking for a solution for which you want to go. We have proposed a solution, namely the millionaire tax. The strongest shoulders can perfectly cope with the crisis and the millionaire tax would bring us EUR 8 to 11 billion. The strange thing about the story is that you also vote against it. The reason why you are against the securities tax is therefore very clear: you still want to protect the largest assets from taxes. But then you have to get the money somewhere else. That's obvious. You talk about ideology all the time, but I don't know what your ideology is anymore: sometimes you go to the left, sometimes to the right and then even more to the right. It's like a poplar blowing away with the wind. I sometimes have the impression that your party programme amounts to anything, as long as it contains the words refugee, migrant and Waal. Then it's all good. So where will you get the money if you don't want to get it from the biggest assets? Stop saying it's a red-blooded government, because I have the impression that you're better suited to the Vivaldi government than you're willing to admit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u68	Mr Colebunders, if you had listened carefully, which you seem not to have done, you would have heard that I have just told you that the current government is finding EUR 1 billion of resources and ultimately spending EUR 2 billion. As I have just said, the Flemish interest has sought an additional billion euros in savings compared to those EUR 2 billion. Today we are tabling amendments for EUR 1 billion in savings. We invite your party, as well as all other parties, to support them. Indeed, we disagree fundamentally with your party on taxation. We are convinced that, especially in the context of relance, we should not go towards a general increase in taxes. We can't go any higher. The government seizure in this country is 60%. Only in North Korea is that even higher. So 60% is already being taxed here and you are now arguing for more taxes. I heard you put it right. You argue for more taxes, including for those who have less. That is clear, and that is what the current government is doing. We differ fundamentally with you, but also with the current government. We believe that the tax burden in general should be reduced by lower and lower tax rates. We believe that taxation can be reduced if a number of conditions are met. In the context of the relance we need to conduct, this is a smart oxygen cure for our economy. Lowering taxes is an excellent social relief measure, which, by strengthening the purchasing power of the hard-working people, both employers and employees, can ultimately stimulate economic growth in this country. In this way, less taxes can ultimately lead to more revenue for the state treasury. I will say it in the language of your party: "Trop d'impôts tuent l'impôt." If too much is taxed, tax revenue is lost. That is what this country is systematically doing wrong. There is only one direction that is always chosen, government after government: taxing more. For us, we cannot continue along this path. We already have a 60% government seizure. The whole private sector in this country is being pushed away by the government. That has to change. Madam President, I now turn to my speech. I was talking about migration. Mr Colebunders, we do indeed have a clear migration criticism unlike your party. After all, you can tell your constituents that our social security is under pressure from migratory flows, that we cannot increase benefits because massive benefits are paid to foreigners and that we are actually playing the OMCW of the whole world. If your party ever comes to power, it's gonna get worse. My party will certainly not fail to emphasise that. As far as migration is concerned, I was telling you that the cost of Fedasil increased by a third. The cost of return is reduced by a third at the same time. Neither the coalition agreement nor the statements by the new Secretary of State, Mr Mahdi, show any ambition to end the massive influx. While almost every institution or body that assesses the country's budget is calling the alarm bell, the government is completely derailing the asylum accounts. The failing asylum and migration policies are starting to weigh increasingly heavily in the dark red figures of the budget. The cost of migration is, of course, much wider than the cost of Fedasil and Alien cases alone. The costs are spread across different posts in federal and regional budgets. The impact of migration on cost items such as education, training, housing and social security runs in the many billions of euros. The gap in the budget is enormous, and that can only be tackled if we dare to name the major cost items. Mr Colebunders, that is what we are doing. One of these costs is migration. That cost does not dare to appoint your party. Anyone who wants to get the budget in order will also have to control migration. The increasing migration bill is one of the many reasons why the budget was derailing even before there was corona. The situation will not improve, especially if we look at the policy of purple-green. This government has not been working for three months and five new taxes have already been on the table. At the end of October the securities tax came on the table, a large and uncut capital tax. Secondly, at the beginning of November there was an increase in excise duties on tobacco, a flat plague tax. Thirdly, in mid-November, a judgment of the European Court of Justice imposed a tax on rental income on the government table. There will be a delay, but there will be no adjustment of a possible hold-up on homeowners. Fourthly, in November there was another carbon tax attack on the middle class in this country. Finally, Deputy Prime Minister Gilkinet spoke in De Standaard about an SUV tax, following French example, the further pressing of motorists as a milk cow of the state treasury. The party chairmen of the majority do not just roll on the streets fighting, but of course all that talk cannot hide the fact that this is a tax government that has not yet known its equal in Belgian history. Less than three months this government is working and a purple-green tax tsunami rolls over Flanders. This government is an unadulterated tax government. Liberals have not promised new taxes, but have had to swallow tax after tax since the impact tax and the increase in excise duties. It's not just a tax government, it's going to be a real fighting coalition. Since day one, the Croo government and yourself, Prime Minister, have been working on some sort of tous ensemble feeling. The new government appointed itself as the coalition of the great alliance, but no one can remain blind to the continuing quarrel between the party chairmen. The coalition agreement is less than three months old or it is already being broken on two crucial points. Firstly, no new taxes would be introduced except in the context of budgetary discussions. It was therefore assumed that new taxes would only be discussed in the budget control for 2021. Today there are at least five new taxes on the board. Secondly, there would be a fair contribution from those with the greatest capacity, with respect for entrepreneurship. However, the new securities tax also applies to companies and self-employed persons. The purple-green government has therefore deceived citizens and businesses in this country at least twice. This double word breach opens the door to billions of euros in new taxes, and everyone here knows that very well. Because of the wells of the Swedish Government and the high cost of the new purple-green policy, this government will have to look for new taxes in every budget format and every budgetary control. The overall budgetary effort would be divided according to the following key: one third of expenditure, one third of revenue, thus new taxes and one third of others, which usually also means new taxes. Two months later, it turns out how creative that all is filled in. The Court of Auditors should not count the new securities tax as a new tax because, as the government parties say, it was agreed in the coalition agreement that it would not be part of it. It used to be called Dutch mathematics, today we call it Belgian mathematics. Another rejuvenation of government communication. Any new tax will mainly become a tax on the Flemings. We know that today 70% of taxes are coughed up by Flanders and Flemish companies in Brussels. Anyone who introduces new taxes will eventually get at least 70% in Flanders. So let it be clear to everyone: the Flemings will pay the purple-green slap, and that is impossible for the Flemish interest to accept. Colleagues, I will save my criticism of the securities tax for later on, for the Finance section. I look forward to it, Minister. Our criticism of tobacco excise duties, our criticism of the new rent income regime, our criticism of the carbon tax, the SUV tax and the city toll, as well as the broad fiscal reform, the index slip and the lifting of banking secrecy, will also be our criticism. That brings me to the conclusion of my speech. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to conclude that this budget is in the end obsolete before it was tabled. It is based on totally unrealistic economic prospects. The government counts itself rich. Income is systematically overestimated, expenditure is structurally underestimated, and measures remain vague and unclear. This is all a sign of a downright poor budgetary policy. Any body that assesses this country's budget will sound the alarm. This budget will return as a boomerang in the face of this government at the first budgetary control. Once the dust of the corona crisis has settled, Belgium will once again be in the spotlight as one of the weakest and most guilty countries in Europe. The corona crisis is also shamelessly abused to conduct a true debt policy. Corona is the perfect alibi to push through new structural taxes such as the securities tax and the non-indexation of tax deductions. Corona is also, in the end, the pretext for removing banking secrecy. You will understand, Madam President, that the Flemish interest will therefore not approve the budget and the programme law. Finally, we call on the government to draw up future budgets on the basis of realistic economic prospects and correct figures rather than budgetary magic tricks and political will. In the coming years, recovery policy must focus on protecting our economic fabric, our specific sectors and the many small and medium-sized enterprises that have grown up in this country. Restoration policy must not focus on climate hysteria. We call on the government, in consultation with the communities and regions on the European budgetary framework, to steer the response of all levels of government to their own policies, so that the debt building up cannot be passed on to other levels of government. I come to my final point. Within Europe, we want the issue of the financing of the European Union to be put on the table and for a fairer distribution to be achieved through a reduction in national contributions for Belgium in general and for Flanders as the largest net contributor to the European Union in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u69	We're going to move on to the MR group. In terms of organisation, would we interrupt after Mr Piedboeuf or after Mr Mathei? Services must be interrupted for at least a quarter of an hour. Would you rather want half an hour or do we try to move forward and a quarter of an hour is enough?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u70	If colleagues agree, a quarter of an hour seems sufficient, as there are no more registrants for the second round.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u71	All right, we'll interrupt around 1:00, 1:15 then.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u72	A quarter of an hour seems to me very good, but I fear that colleagues will not come back at the end of this quarter and that there will be no one in the House. Wouldn't it be more realistic to take half an hour?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u73	I think everyone will take responsibility, knowing our busy timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u74	Mr Van Hees, I spoke about this this afternoon with your group leader who agreed to it, I do not know why, but we will be there!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u75	We will therefore take about a quarter of an hour's break at approximately 1:00 p.m., 1:15 p.m., depending on the length of the speaking time of the coming groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u76	Madam President, the Prime Minister has had to leave us and, on the one hand, it suits me because I was going to talk behind his back, which is not my style. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, 6.7%... The National Bank has presented its economic forecasts, and this figure of 6.7% represents the decline in our GDP for 2020. According to the Governor of the National Bank, this is the most important shock since the Second World War. Initially, GDP fell by 10-12 per cent, but the measures taken by the Wilmès government, such as temporary unemployment, extension of the bridge or adapted monetary policies, partially amortized this shock. But it is devastating for our economy and for employment. By 2021, the National Bank estimates that we could have lost or lost 100,000 jobs, even though we had created much more jobs under the previous government. It will therefore take time for the unemployment curve to return to its pre-crisis level. The future is still uncertain, but no one today can boast of understanding and, above all, anticipating the disease as a whole. The health measures that have had to be taken have a direct and severe impact on our economy, but also on our citizens psychologically or morally. They are indeed far from those who are dear to them and limited in their freedoms. Our collective struggle – I associate everyone – and budgetary efforts aim to ensure the recovery for tomorrow, through an investment in our economy and workers. The National Bank confirms that we have managed to curb some of the negative economic effects of coronavirus, and the arrival of the vaccine should allow a return to normal economic activity and, therefore, a recovery. This recovery, however, requires attention and accompaniment. That is the whole meaning of our government's first budget. The government has chosen a fiscal path that will ensure the sustainability of our public finances. We must again control the debt and the deficit. We were almost there. Now we're going back to zero. The margins are narrow. Even if, as the Court of Auditors has said, the nature of our debt and its fundamentals are good, we must continue to control it. It is in this context that we support the desire to achieve an annual budgetary effort of 0.2% and, from 2022 onwards, a variable budgetary effort conditioned by the return of growth. In 2021, part of this effort will focus on federal governments. With this in mind, the government has chosen to empower our jurisdictions best able to rationalize their spending. A return to fiscal balance will also require an increase in the employment rate. This recovery, which began under the previous legislature, must continue. The objective is always the same. The best way to improve our revenue is to increase the number of people at work. This broadens the base of those who contribute to solidarity. For us, there is no question of promulgating new taxes, at the risk of increasing the burden of finance on the shoulders of the middle classes. It's our will. In the current situation, let us also not forget our collective responsibility. It took us months to form a government. This valuable time during which we have been subject to the interim credit system continues to have a significant impact on our public finances. To be faced with a crisis like this should make us realize that we must no longer waste too much time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u77	Mr Piedboeuf, I am interrupting you because you are also entitled to your interruption by the PTB.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u78	Mr Piedboeuf, you tell us that there is no new tax. In the context of this government, it is indeed a slogan that has often been heard from the MR and from you in particular. You say that there is no new tax but there is still a third of the effort coming from the tax and we know that it will be more than a third because some things are going to deflate, such as the fight against tax evasion or your miracle return effect that you have just mentioned. And what are the taxes in these tax efforts? The bulk of the tax effort is known to come from consumption taxes (VAT, excise duty) which are the most unfair. Mr Piedboeuf, what is the difference between new taxes and the increase in existing taxes? I have the impression that, for the taxpayer, the result is the same. In the end, there is a tax bill. As for the nature of taxes, there are unfair taxes on consumption with which the MR likes to type small people. We saw him in the previous government. But even the PPI will be increased as you do not index tax expenditures to the PPI. However, not indexing tax expenditures to the PPI means increasing the PPI. So even the IPP, which is usually the battlehorse of the MR, is increased. What is the logic of your speech against taxes? This is the classical liberal logic, taxatory rabies, etc. Aren't you in taxatory rage?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u79	Mr Van Hees, thank you for your questions or rather for your slogans.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u80	What is the difference between paying new taxes and paying existing ones? The result is the same. That is my question, Mr. Laaouej. I see tax increases. I want to tax the rich. I oppose injustices.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u81	There's one thing you can't blame us for, it's that in the government declaration, there was an increase in excise duty on tobacco and certain beverages. You can't take us in default. That's what I said. You can't say we said we wouldn't. We said we would. We keep our word. We're doing it! I do not always agree with the way we do it because there is a whole series of technical elements on which we can discuss. In fact, this has already been discussed with the Minister of Finance, but I do not consider that increasing excise duties on tobacco is taxing the small population or the small people. Smokers are taxed. There are smokers who have less means than others. Others have the means. You may disagree with the health argument. You don't agree, it doesn't matter! With regard to VAT, reductions are announced rather than increases. When you say that in the plan there is a third of tax revenue, of course, I have just said that the National Bank normally announces a resumption even if we are now talking about other figures. We have the will to broaden the base. It is therefore not a question of extending taxation but of extending contributors. When you get a start on the economy, when you re-create employment as you did in the previous government, it generates revenue. When you say that you want to generate a third of the revenue, it's not that you want to tax more, it's that you want to have more contributors in the participation. Still, it's not a crime to want to increase employment. On the other hand, our will is always the same: lower taxes on the lowest incomes. This is not at all what you are aiming for as a criticism, but it is absolutely that. As for the tax on securities accounts which my colleague Vermeersch mentioned earlier, it existed. It happens that it has been cancelled and that we are putting it back into service, taking into account the comments made and increasing the ceiling. One cannot say that a new tax was created: it existed. No other tax was created, Mr. Van Hees. It's a fact! Except to say that it was created with the will to make it void. Some say it, but I don't. They're bad spirits. I don't think so. I will discuss what is interesting in this policy, in this programme law and in this budget. The exemption from payment of the professional discount is not a tax increase. For the training of workers, it corresponds to the essential need of workers to train, to constantly renew themselves; It is a tax incentive which is more flexible for SMEs and which still allows investment in human capital. The crisis of the covid has also shown the importance of supporting families who have had to reorganize themselves. Dual support is provided for families who decide to keep an elderly parent at home or who use professional care for their children. This makes it possible to accompany the balance between working and family life. We know it's been difficult. There were still reactions on the radio today, saying that these people had not been attended. We do what we can and we all have to deal with some of the difficulties we face. The increased tax deduction for investments is a tax advantage for SMEs who decide to invest despite the context. This confirms the willingness to support entrepreneurship. The reduction of VAT for demolition and reconstruction of buildings throughout the country, within a social framework, will give impetus to the construction sector, which is a major provider of jobs and which will be at the heart of the Belgian and European recovery in the context of the energy transition to a more sustainable economy. The government also has the ambition to achieve a simplification of our tax system, which is essential and vital to restoring tax fairness. Because when the statement is complicated, only those who know how to be accompanied can make it. Beyond the support in the crisis, a real, ambitious and far-reaching recovery plan is needed to redeploy the economy. It is with this in mind that the European Union has adopted a general plan of 750 billion, in terms of loans or subsidies, and of course we must also benefit from it. Of course, Brexit is still complicating the situation. The Green Deal, the driving force behind European policy – which still represents a third of the budget – will be implemented to change our economy and industry, in particular through the relocation of entire sections of our industrial activities for essential goods, often produced outside our borders and at European borders. Climate change is a challenge. We are strengthening our action alongside the European Union, which aims to be climate neutral and sustainable in 2050. Political commitment in this area must become a legal obligation. The Government hopes that the climate targets will be translated into intermediate targets subject to objective assessments each year. It is already aiming for a substantial improvement in 2030. We are talking about a reduction of 55 per cent, working in round tables, involving civil society and research institutions, as well as the various socio-economic sectors. Beyond the climate challenge, it is a great opportunity to redeploy our economic model. The government will apply a clear strategic energy vision by building on the guarantee of sufficient capacity through the deployment of the compensation and capacity mechanism, otherwise called CRM, notably via wind at sea – we are one of the leading countries with regard to wind at sea –, the control of energy demand, and the promotion of innovation. For our group, there are three essential criteria for a modern, viable and desirable energy policy for our society. These three criteria also apply, of course, to the Belgian energy mix. I want to talk about the price for citizens, security of supply and reductions in CO2 emissions. An appointment clause was established by the end of 2021 to analyse the situation. If monitoring demonstrates a security of supply problem, the government will take measures such as adjusting the legal nuclear release schedule for a maximum capacity of 2 GW. However, we are calling for the monitoring provided for in the government agreement on energy price developments and security of supply to enter into force at the very beginning of 2021. I expected to deliver the following message to the Prime Minister: We expect political leadership from him so that the federal government can explore in a united, concerted and imaginative manner concrete avenues combining public and private investments to build the social economy of the 21st century. The Belgian and European recovery plans cannot only be curative; they must lay the foundations for innovative and sustainable economic redeployment, with our SMEs and our self-employed as their focus. The pandemic and the closure of shops, culture and horeca have hit them hard. The latest report of the National Bank confirms that the sector was the most affected by this crisis. Support measures were taken from the beginning of the health crisis by Minister Ducrame: reinforcement and extension of the bridge law, carry-overs of tax payments and social contributions, moratorium on bankruptcies and arrangements for Horeca, the agricultural sector and retail businesses. For its part, our group has tabled a text on the judicial reorganization procedure (PRJ). There is an urgent need to reduce and simplify the existing procedures that firms in difficulty can use. By the end of January, the federal government will be working on this modernization of the PRJ. Tomorrow, we will also vote on the bill with various provisions on justice, which specifically introduces a second moratorium on bankruptcies. This measure is welcomed by the whole sector, which considers it indispensable. As regards competitiveness, taxation and the fight against social dumping, further measures will be taken to create conditions for fair competition between Belgian and foreign companies with the same controls and in compliance with Belgian legislation. For example, as far as e-commerce is concerned, we know that we are also thinking at European level and in this area, things are moving forward. In the same philosophy, measures will also be taken with regard to SMEs' access to intellectual property protection and the fight against counterfeiting. In tax matters, as early as 2021 – I have already mentioned the 6% rate on demolition and reconstruction of buildings, the increased deduction for investments of 25% for two years and to support the solvency of our companies, a replenishment reserve is introduced. The government will develop tax benefits for businesses that provide their staff with more hours of training than the number required by law. To support the independents, Minister Clarinval has proposed a new bill to put in place a crisis mechanism for bridge law. It aims not to exclude any of the self-employed affected by the crisis, regardless of the sector in which they are active. The plurality of occupational profiles required specific legislation. In concrete terms, as of 1 January, support will be provided to the self-employed who have not been able to benefit from the right bridge of crisis 2020 or from the right bridge of support to recovery, a measure which, for example, concerns the liberal professions which represent about 360,000 independents. This bill also provides a financial benefit for self-employed workers who have been forced to stop their activity either because they are quarantined or in isolation. This financial benefit will be proportional to the duration of the interruption. With regard to digitalisation and administrative simplification, one of the essential means to facilitate our economic redeployment is the deployment of new technologies. The Government's willingness to put in place a comprehensive plan to improve the efficiency of public services goes in this direction, through the simplification of the structure of these services. Secretary of State Mathieu Michel will implement the Single Digital Gateway project, which will ultimately facilitate access to the rights and obligations of Belgian citizens and businesses within the Single Market. This project will also solve many online procedures, lead to the standardization of information and the in-depth integration of systems within different administrations and levels of power. All of this, of course, in strict compliance with the GDPR. In the area of Big Data, we support the government's Data Public strategy, which will allow for better interoperability of data between different administrations, while respecting citizens' privacy. These advances will be the source of a significant saving of time for administrations, businesses, citizens, in a clear framework of the purpose of data use. It is indeed necessary for the citizen to feel secure about these technologies. Belgium has the human and material means to continue to be at the forefront of technological innovation. This is the case in many areas. In this sense, we welcome the government's willingness to adopt a coherent artificial intelligence strategy. Of course, we also welcome the willingness expressed in the government agreement to achieve new ethical balances in artificial intelligence and robotics. With regard to mobility, the great challenge over the next few years will be our country's ability to move towards more environmentally friendly modes of transport and we support the government's willingness to invest in the creation of multimodal platforms, the development of bicycle motorways, smart mobility solutions and the development of the rail network and train supply. In view of the importance of SNCB to our citizens, we join in the desire to impose strict and binding quality requirements. We are also looking forward to exploring the path of integrating private expertise into SNCB. We welcome the development of a 2040 rail vision that will allow the sector to prepare for the changes it will face in the coming decades. We support the desire to make Brussels a veritable international rail hub through the development of more frequent and faster connections to Europe's major cities. In a personal and European capacity, the Brussels-Luxembourg link is one of the fundamental links of this development. The government's ambition is to double the volume transported by rail by 2030 through an action plan to strengthen the competitiveness of rail freight, as well as the desire to improve inland transport in partnership with the federated entities. We are confident in the government's ability to deal, despite all the complexity of the matter, with the problem of noise pollution related to the air traffic at Zaventem airport. A balance must be struck between quietness, the health of the residents and the harmonious development of the airport. This is a concern that has been going on for decades. We also look forward to achieving a "zero dead" target on the roads by 2050. Indeed, the car is still an indispensable way to get around. Finally, with regard to drones, we hope that the sector can continue to develop in Belgium by promoting new technologies and new ways of working, but taking into account the constraints of aviation safety and privacy. With regard to public enterprises and the public service, we believe that public enterprises, like others, have an important role to play in the economic influence of our country. For this reason, we support the government's desire to make autonomous public enterprises exemplary structures in terms of social dialogue, continuous training and sustainability and diversity. Thus, Proximus must continue to be an important player in the evolution of telecommunications and digital technology. That is why we support it in this crucial role of developing the fibre optic network, which will enable our citizens and businesses to benefit from excellent network coverage, which is essential to their activities. 5G is also a key building block for the development of our digital economy, and the government will have to ensure the necessary conditions to create the commitment of stakeholders, as well as citizens. Too many rumours and false information are circulating. If fears are to be heard, there is also a need to reassure, through reliable studies and clear discourse. The crisis has also demonstrated the ever-increasing attractiveness of e-commerce. In this context, the digital and ecological transformation of bpost must enable it to remain a key player in the delivery market. We commend the government for its commitment to making the public service a mirror of our society and support Minister De Sutter's commitment to reach and integrate minority groups. Reducing the gender pay gap and the problems of the glass ceiling are for us paramount points of attention. Public enterprises must be an example in this area. In the area of agriculture, tomorrow's Belgium will necessarily have to be based on an ambitious and sustainable agricultural policy in order to meet a series of major challenges, such as the provision of quality food that is healthy and that respects standards, in sufficient quantity and at affordable prices for all consumers, as well as challenges such as the protection of the environment, biodiversity and animal welfare, while ensuring that farmers' incomes are sufficiently remunerative, in particular through protection against all forms of unfair competition caused by non-compliance with standards. In the field of animal health, it will be necessary to support the presence on the ground of sufficient veterinarians and to upgrade this essential profession in the chain. On the defence side, the in-depth discussions in the Defence Committee demonstrated the importance of continuity in these matters and the strategic importance of the military program law. The Minister of Defence must imbue herself with the benchmarks contained in the government agreement and fight to ensure that the fiscal trajectory (24% of GDP in 2024) is respected. It must bring its personal touch to ensure the success of two key files: the recruitment of a new generation of military personnel (10,000 over 4 years) and the support of our defence industry (represents more than 15,000 jobs including advanced technicians, experienced engineers) industry that must respond to fierce competition from allies or strategic rivals. The MR will fully support the Minister of Defence in a spirit of demand and determination. In terms of internal security, security, intelligence and justice services will be refinanced and modernized through investments in human resources, computerization and buildings. The planned recruitment of 1,600 police officers per year and the reform of police training – with the desire to reduce the time between candidacy and effective engagement – are a long-standing demand of police unions. We intend to answer that question. The personal safety of emergency personnel will be better ensured. Violence against the police and rescue workers will be firmly and rapidly combated by a zero-tolerance policy. The crisis must not cause us to lose sight of another threat that is terrorism. One area to be developed is the fight against its financing by freezing the financial assets and economic resources of persons and entities involved in terrorist offences. With regard to asylum and migration, any asylum-seeker or holder of a right of residence must be assisted and informed in a transparent manner and promptly, in principle within six months, receive a definitive reply. The Government has planned and will provide the necessary means to meet sufficient capacity for the repatriation of persons in an illegal situation in good living conditions. The master plan will be improved while respecting the timing so that the needs are met. New places in a closed centre will be occupied first and foremost by persons who have committed offences that constitute a danger to public order or cause nuisances. Minors may not be detained in a closed centre. Uniform application of the rules, including monitoring of compliance with the conditions of family reunification, will be ensured and organised more effectively. The role of the municipalities in the procedure will be clarified and the necessary means will be established to provide them with adequate support, including the establishment of a platform, so that the Aliens Office and the administrations can exchange data in a secure and more traceable manner. In foreign affairs, respect for human rights has no borders. Our minister, Sophie Wilmès, defended our country's position at the meeting of European ministers very recently when it was decided on a new European sanctions regime that will allow the Union to ensure respect for human rights throughout the world, by imposing sanctions on state and non-state actors, legal or natural persons who would be responsible for serious human rights violations. These facts can now lead to a ban on entry into the territory of our country and, more broadly, to a freezing of assets. As the minister pointed out, the defence of the values that are the foundations of the European project must guide us. Respect for and promotion of these values define us. These values are enshrined in our founding treaties, which make us unique on the international stage. That is why our country is the basis for the establishment of the intra-European peer review system with regard to the rule of law. With regard to justice, everyone was able to recognize the ambitious nature of our new minister's policy guidance note. He was able, in a very short period of time, to listen to a large number of actors in the justice system and to get an idea of their expectations as well as those of the litigants. The financing of justice was an important issue in the last elections. All the parties, whether they are now part of the majority or the opposition, had pledged to revalue it. If a general saving of 0.89% on staff and operating appropriations is applied, an additional budget of EUR 125 million is foreseen for 2021. It will be broken down after discussion in the Justice Committee. The appointment has been set. We'll pay attention to it. It is necessary to ensure that judicial personnel, from magistrates to clerks, through prison officers, in sufficient numbers, work in correct conditions and receive adequate training. And, as the minister put it in his guidance note, justice must become an attractive employer again. Secondly, there is a need to improve the efficiency of the entire criminal chain: the search for offences, with the need to hire judges, information technology investigators and specialists in the field of organised or financial crime. We have been talking about this for years now, it is imperative to take action; an immediate response to the offence, with the need to invest, for example in an accelerated procedure in the drug treatment chambers; the effectiveness of any sanction, with the need to invest, for example in cross-border and sentence enforcement judges; the reintegration to avoid recidivism requires various avenues, including investing in decent buildings and conditions of detention, in transitional houses, as well as in the new path advocated by the Minister for detention centres, which allow for appropriate detention; investing in the establishment of a detention plan from the moment of incarceration. Finally, it is undeniable that the computerization of justice is a considerable return on investment. It is necessary that the work begun under the previous legislatures continue assiduously and that significant progress is made in this cross-cutting area. I will conclude my speech with the very important chapter on public health. Caregivers as a whole have been exemplary in their management of the crisis. We need to be able to hear our demands for more effective public health that can respond to the challenges of the future. To this end, primary care, including those provided by pharmacists, will be strengthened. They're the guardians and coaches of our system. We encourage elements that promote cooperation, prevention and targeted actions. We are also committed to integrated care for chronic patients in order to achieve an ambitious inter-federal plan. Another important reform to be carried out, in our view, concerns the revision of the nomenclature, which no longer takes full account of the reality of the field. It needs to be simplified, made more readable and updated. Consultation time needs to be restored through simpler administrative procedures to enable effective care delivery. It is known that administrative procedures are often time-consuming and prevent claimants from doing their jobs calmly. The role of the pharmacist has also evolved towards a model of quality dispensation and value-added service for patients. It is essential to value this essential profession of our health system. A new pact will be concluded with the pharmaceutical sector. In addition to innovation, accessibility, ethics and the fight against shortages, it will devote the sector's budgetary responsibility in the price of medicines, in order to allocate a percentage of this budget to the reimbursement of innovative medicines. At the same time, it will be important to continue to inform and educate medical personnel about their role in prescribing drugs, including antibiotics. The reform of hospital funding will continue to make it simpler and more transparent. The growth of fee supplements will be regulated, stabilized and then decreased. The continuity and integration of care between the various structures will be encouraged in order to improve the care of chronic patients. The conversion of hospital beds into intermediate structures and the strengthening of outpatient care will be facilitated. Finally, the hospital landscape will be consolidated on the basis of networks, in particular by centralizing the most complex and technical care, while ensuring the proximity of basic care and revalidation. Support for network development is essential for the hospital landscape of tomorrow and for affordable and accessible health care. These networks will enable specific expertise to be developed in order to take care of patients as optimally as possible. We will also develop mental health care. The Government has set aside a series of budgets in this regard. Given what we have learned from the crisis, investments are and will be released and qualitative reforms are being launched. Synergies will be launched with reforms already underway in hospitals, integrated care for patients with complex care needs. The government will not only ensure adequate and inclusive structural funding, but also enhance quality and effectiveness on the basis of scientific facts and patient needs. Health spending is of a particular nature because resources are limited. They impose choices and priorities, while, on the other hand, needs are almost unlimited and important. The budgetary objective will therefore be adjusted. The growth standard is currently set in Article 40 of the Act at 1.5% against the overall annual budget target of the previous year. For the year 2021, the annual budget target will be EUR 30 billion. This amount corresponds to the technical estimates of INAMI. The legal growth standard is set at 2.5% from the year 2022 to finance the volume effect of demand, but also to allow for new care initiatives. With regard to fees and surcharges applied in hospitals, we are convinced that a reform will ensure access to care, increase transparency and ensure funding for hospitals. As far as insurers are concerned, it is necessary to continue to reflect on how they operate in order to enable them to play a more important role through, inter alia, new technologies. It goes without saying that these reforms cannot be achieved without the support of effective and motivated administrations. Federal health authorities will continue their efforts to optimize their internal management. Colleagues, after this very busy year 2020, as Saint-Exupéry said: "The future is not so much about predicting it as making it possible." Our government, if it is heteroclite, is not disparate. Visions are enriching each other, and the good, constructive, empathetic and inclusive attitude enables us to address with determination a future full of promises that must be addressed today. We can turn the current adversity into an opportunity for tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u82	Dear colleague, dear Benoît, I know that you are making the effort to learn Dutch. I welcome this effort and, on this occasion, I will make the effort to ask you my question in French. You know, dear Benoît, that I admire your journey, your friendliness and, from time to time, I pay attention to the fact that you are obliged to work in this government with the PS, a party that condemns almost everything that the previous Swedish government has done. We just heard Mr. Laaouej, the PS group leader. We also know who the presidents of this government were: Prime Ministers of the MR, first with Mr. Michel and then with Mrs. Wilmès. So it must be a bit special to work with a college partner, if I may say so. That said, I have a question for you. You know very well that at the moment everyone, especially journalists and politicians, is watching the role of Ecolo and the MR in this government. So, at MR, are you stable, accountable and reliable partners? The question concerns above all the role of your new President, Mr Boucher, who has his own interpretation of reality from time to time, in a way. Recently, a small film appeared on Facebook in which Mr.Bouchez addressed the public, saying that with this new government, "there will be no new taxes." Everyone in this House knows that next year we will have at least 700 million new taxes; 700 million of them are already safe. And in the future, there will be more. But Mr.Bouchez says there will be no new taxes with this government. I'm quoting him. Mr Piedboeuf, this is the question I'm asking you. Dear Benoît, do you think such communication is correct and honest? This government is also saying that it is going to attack the fake news. Here, we are confronted with a party president who literally says that there will be no new taxes when it is written black and white, and everyone knows that there will be some, for at least 700 million. Is it a fake news, or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u83	Thank you for your French. I'm not exactly bilingual yet. Dear Sander, I will address the first point. As far as the PS is concerned, we are in alliance at the Walloon level. That's where some people see all the evils. I'm watching politics and I've seen what's happened in the last few months. While you said worse than hanging from the PS for years, you were in discussion to form a government with that party. I don't see why you could have done it, and we couldn't! [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u84	Indeed! It's a little cynical. Besides, Jan Jambon and others had announced it. You were ready to buy the division of the country from the PS by offering it to continue to finance Wallonia, which you constantly denounce.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u85	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u86	Yes, you pay. It's normal, you have more people and more businesses. When you see the numbers, there's more people. More people are paying more than fewer people and more businesses, which makes more revenue than fewer businesses. It's an objective effect. It is not a will to make Flanders pay.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u87	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u88	Yes, most of you are. And you're not in the government. These are the vagaries of politics. Compared to the PS, we have different visions. I said it but you did not listen to my last sentence: "Our government, if it is heteroclite" – there are seven parties – "is not disparate from it. Visions are enriching each other, and the good, constructive, empathetic and inclusive attitude enables us to address with determination a future full of promises that must be addressed today. We can turn the current adversity into an opportunity." It is clear that I do not always agree, but we are debating it. As I said before in the European Parliament, when I myself became an alderman thirty-two years ago, a former GC mayor of the time wrote me in a greeting card: "From the shock of ideas comes the light." That's what's going on. We'll also try to make it electric... As far as Ecolo is concerned, it is also a partner that represents certain currents in society. We don't always agree. I, who come to Brussels, do not agree with all of Ecolo's guidelines. This party has a vision that it develops and we will try to articulate it with ours. As for our President, he has the pros and cons of youth. He has a lot of enthusiasm. He has a lot of creativity. He's got a very sharp intelligence, too. And when he says that there will be no new taxes, we must not confuse revenue with tax because it is not always the same thing. As Mr. Van Hees earlier, we're planning a third of tax coverage. When we expand the base, we have more contributors and we increase the revenue. That doesn't mean we've increased taxes. We've increased the base and that's the right solution. We did it together in the Swedish government. When you raise the base, when you create jobs, there are more contributors and more contributors means more revenue, but that doesn't make more taxes for everyone. These are the same taxes but on more people. As I said before to Mr. Van Hees, one thing we can't be sued for is the increase in excise duties. We said in the statement that we were going to increase them. We announced it, we did it. It's unpleasant, but I don't smoke. So I don't feel concerned. I have a point of view on excise duties. We discussed it in the Finance Committee. I also think that at some point too many taxes kill taxes and since we are a small country with borders and countries that sell less expensive than we do, we lose some of our excise revenues but also VAT on other products. I've been saying that for a long time. I didn't wait for this finance minister. We all agree, we need to review the tax system at the excise level. The president announced that there would be no new taxes. In our mind, since we have a maximum tax burden, it is income taxes, that is the main issue. As far as income taxes are concerned, we're tired of paying so many taxes. Together, we have reduced taxes on low incomes. We want to continue this decline on low incomes. The security account tax is reinstated, but we created it together. So, you must not have any regrets about that. We designed it together. Did we write it wrong? Yes. Was it voluntary? I don't believe it, but if it was voluntary, we did well because it was cancelled. As we still wanted it, we say now that we put it back and do it with another ceiling. There are already legal criticisms. So we'll see if we need to refine the text further. The PTB disagrees with this tax on securities accounts, because it would have been necessary to tax the assets, etc. We know the speech. This tax on securities accounts is, above all, a kind of balance between those who do not have the means and those who have a little more. We have a little more resources, we agree to pay our taxes even if we are not happy. Those who have even more resources will have to be subject to contribution. It is not a new tax, it is the resurrection of the tax that we have designed together. When Georges-Louis Boucher says there will be no new taxes, one thing is for sure, it is his will. We do not want new taxes. I don't want any new taxes either. It's like getting out of nuclear power. We want to get out of nuclear power. It's the same! If, after two years, there is a problem, the issue will have to be re-examined in a reasonable manner. We do not want to increase income tax. There are countries that are stronger than us in indirect taxes. As far as we are concerned, this is already quite a good thing, but we have planned reductions in VAT. I don't think there's any difference of opinion between our young president and the older group leader I am.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u89	Madam President, I have a small reply. I note that Mr Bouchez says that there will be no new taxes, while Mr Piedboeuf raises the taxfeniks here and lists all the new taxes that are coming. It would perhaps be a good thing that this government should also deliver the coalition agreement to Mr Bouchez, so that he knows exactly what is in it. You might also point out to him that this government has the ambition to fight fake news. I think that's important. Do you know why? You often say you want to fight populism. Do you know what's populist? Promise everything and then don't do what you promised. That is actually Mr Piedboeuf's answer. He says: 'Mr Bouchez does not really want to raise taxes, Mr Bouchez does not really want to close the nuclear power stations.' Those are promises, promises. But what do we see in the text of the coalition agreement? They're all broken. Now that's a breeding ground for populism. Spreading fake news like that is bad news. I would advise you all to click on Mr Bouchez in the debate sheets, which you will undoubtedly have.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u90	Madam President, I would simply remind Mr Loones that his party managed the Department of Finance for just over four years. I would remind you that you have increased the excise duty on fuels for more than two billion euros: 2.2 billion exactly. Excise duty and VAT. On a proposal from your minister, you raised VAT on electricity: more than 700 million euros per year for taxpayers. Tax on sodas, etc. A whole series of other samples. So you can have fun trying to find out what a party president said before or during the conclusion of a government agreement. We can also resume electoral programmes, but the fact is that you have massively increased taxes on household consumption. We make a completely different choice. We are trying to preserve households against this kind of increase, except for tobacco sampling. On the question of tax increases, especially those directly affecting households, you are in a poor position. I would also remind you that you made an index leap, which also deprived households of part of their wages, but you claimed that it was going to create jobs, that it was what needed to be done to strengthen competitiveness; while others brought other justifications, you were proud of it. So you tapped into people's pockets and said you were happy to do it. In conclusion, you are ill placed to give lessons in tax justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u91	Madam President and Mr. Piedboeuf, thank you for this divine revelation that you are bringing to us today. You are telling us that this tax on securities accounts is a resurrection of what had been done under Swedish law. It is true that under Swedish, it was a Minister N-VA who launched this tax operation on securities accounts. We know that he did it without believing too much because it was clearly a placebo tax, a symbol that should not fundamentally change things but that said: "Look, you have to endure very heavy efforts but we also made the big fortunes pay". It is true that here with the Vivaldi, we thought that with the socialist and green families, we would have a real tax on wealth with the suppression of bank secrecy, with a cadastre of fortunes etc. Mr. Magnette came and told us this in the first few days: "It will be extraordinary, never seen, a tax on wealth. We're really going to make the widest shoulders pay." Then, finally, it is indeed, as you say very well, only a resurrection of what had been done by the Swedish government, which was particularly right-wing, with right-wing families like the N-VA adding to the right-hand side. So, finally, all this for that? All this for this resurrection. I thank you, Mr Piedboeuf, for this frankness.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u92	Madam President, of course it will be a long day. During the debate in the European Parliament on fraud figures, the Prime Minister, who had not understood his own budget, referred to the opposition as a kindergarten. The Prime Minister said he had to explain the basic principles of economics to Mr Hedebouw, who apparently did not understand that if more people are working, fewer benefits will be paid. The Prime Minister then felt that he should also explain taxation to Mr Laaouej, who apparently does not know the difference between a tax shift and a tax lift. Mr Laaouej, what we did in the previous government is a tax shift, which even leads to a tax reduction, because under the Swedish Government the tax burden has fallen. You confirm that yourself, because you say every time that the tax shift was not financed, which is as much as saying that the tax burden has fallen. Under the Swedish coalition there were fewer taxes. Under the current coalition, even though Mr Bouchez claims that no new taxes are being introduced, the reality is that it is impossible to cope with taxes: up, up, up. If the Prime Minister speaks of a kindergarten, he may be able to address his coalition partners sooner.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u93	How did you offset the index jump? You say we've replaced an income tax reduction with an increase in consumption taxes. We made a tax slip. That's what you're saying. By the way, you have replaced a progressive tax with a regressive one. So you have strengthened fiscal injustice. But how did you replace and offset the index jump for the workers' pocket? I would remind you that this is a cumulative and unlimited effect over time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u94	We have replaced it with additional purchasing power. Not only do I say that, all the experts say that, the European Commission says that, the National Bank says that. Not only has the tax burden been reduced, but also purchasing power has increased. Despite the index jump, purchasing power has improved net. Mr Laaouej, you should not take the word index jump in your mouth today. After all, we have seen that you are also making an index jump in this budget, particularly on the retirement allowance, on a number of things that people can normally deduct from their taxable base when it comes to spending on families who want to help each other. Those amounts, which subtract, you're not going to index. You freeze it, which de facto gives you an index jump. There is only one domain on which you do not do an index jump, and those are the party dotations. We are tabling an amendment here today. If you're in people's pockets and you're limiting your retirement allowance, give at least the right example and do an index jump on the contributions of the political parties. But you do not, Mr Laaouej. When it comes to not indexing the pension deduction, you are in the front row. But when it comes to the softening of party dotations, it must not be touched. If you were talking about index jumps, I'd think twice anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u95	When someone starts mixing everything, it's because he loses his foot. Mr. Sander Loones is losing his foot and mixing everything. He invokes non-indexations on certain tax reduction items, which are "censed to bring back 17 million euros of taxes, 120 billion tax revenues, 17 million savings, but replacement income is exempt", i.e. the measure does not affect tax reductions related to replacement income! Not only do you tell anything, but then you make a rather muddy rhetoric and lose your foot! For the rest, you are referring to a debate that will probably take place earlier on the financing of the parties, which will be allocated to the parties. I have no difficulty holding such a debate. In fact, we want a broader debate which will probably be for those on the initiative, scheduled at the beginning of the year. But, you mix everything and you don't answer my question. If I allow myself to go back to the index jump, it's not to tell me in one way or another "yours, I look back in the mirror and I take stock of the previous government". No, no! That's because you're taking a lesson in questioning Mr. Piedboeuf in relation to his party president's statements on "tax or no tax"; while your Finance Minister has consistently tabled texts that increase consumer taxes, praised the index jump – which the other parties have not done, precisely because they realized that this social policy could have unfair and unrecoverable social repercussions (i.e. it's difficult to compensate for this kind of decision) – and your Minister was also continuing to sign excise increases orders. There! You're doing the lesson! That's why I'm referring you to your own balance sheet, which is not beneficial to you! Then you mix everything! Of course, since you don't have an answer to my question!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u96	I agree with Mr Laaouej that there is a link between this government and the Swedish government. They would both raise some taxes and lower others. That's right, we call that a tax shift. The difference between the two governments is that we have reduced them much more than we have increased them and that you will increase them much more than you will lower them. There are long discussions about this, but there is a figure that provides clarity, namely the overall taxation of government, for example, against GDP. During the Swedish period, this figure has fallen. When I see the multiannual projections of the new government, I see that the imbalance between the two figures is increasing year after year. In 2024, a tax reduction, a few tax treats, worth 118 million euros. In the same year, a series of tax increases worth EUR 2.6 billion will be against this. For the sake of clarity, 118 million is 0.1 billion, before it is said that 118 is more than 2.6. Mr Laaouej, Mr Loones has also pointed out that you cannot spend years fighting Minister Van Overtveldt's tax shift, because it would not have been financed, and now you are saying that there has been no tax reduction. If you say the tax shift wasn't funded, it sounds like something's wrong. Perhaps that was also the case in your conviction. If that shift wasn't funded, it means that the government has returned society far more than it has taken. That is the essence of a shift that is not covered. We are proud of that, by the way. In short, you cannot insist for years that the tax shift ultimately meant that we returned more to society than we asked for, and now suddenly say that we created a tax increase. Let us also be careful that we continue to see the forest between the trees: the total figure of the attack is, of course, the result of the pluses and the mins, and you can read it in the tables. You can also call that a tax shift, but it is one of a totally different order.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u97	Madam President, fortunately, over the last ten years we have reduced taxes on labour and, above all, taxes on labour for the lowest incomes. That was the case in the previous legislature and in the preceding legislature. Members of the N-VA will remember how we annoyed them, because some aspects of them were not in the government agreement when we forced them to do so in the government. However, we have also increased taxes: the withholding tax to 30%, the stock exchange tax, the banking tax, the security tax. We thought that was only fair. However, when I hear the members of the N-VA say how wonderful the last legislature was and how fantastic that government was, I share that view, then the question arises as to why they started to walk because of a non-binding pact. Besides, I think the debate on the previous parliamentary term is very interesting, but I am looking at the screen and I see that the debate is on the general expenditure budget for the financial year 2021 and on the programme law. I actually agree with Mr Piedboeuf's reply on new taxes. As far as I am concerned, the tax on securities accounts means the restoration of the securities tax, which you have introduced in the last legislature to meet some people's needs, and for others too much, the need for fair taxation. The Council of State is critical in this respect, but this legislature is faced with an economic crisis that has not been experienced since the Second World War, with phenomenal cuts in income without lowering taxes, and with justified increases in public health expenditure and expenditure for the most victims of the crisis, namely the workers who lose their jobs and the entrepreneurs who risk going bankrupt. It costs money. We can partly finance this through savings, but I also think it is justified that this is partly done with income, such as the securities account tax. I think that's fair.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u98	Madam President, I would like to address two points. Mr Loones, when I hear you say that you proposed to remove the party endowments, I think that's not exactly what you proposed. You have indeed proposed to delete 2% of the party's allocation, 2%! But who receives the highest level of funding in this country? It's you! In five years, you've received 70 million euros and you're speculating with that money! Our proposal is to divide the amount of the allocation by two, and we will also propose an amendment to that end. This is a real reduction in endowments! I'm sorry, but offering a 2% discount is a laugh. On the issue of taxation, I believe that there is an opposition here that does not have to be between the members of the Vivaldi coalition and the right-wing nationalist bloc. In reality, this tax policy is identical. What did the Swede do? It had increased indirect taxes, i.e. the most unjust taxes, because they affect the poorest people. And what is the current government doing? It does exactly the same thing: it increases indirect taxes, taxes on consumption or the future carbon tax, which is totally unfair! It introduces symbolic taxes on wealth such as the tax on securities accounts, on securities accounts bis; the tax resurrection of Mr Piedboeuf!. This tax policy is therefore in line with the same logic, and the debate has therefore not changed! We disagree, but we do the same thing, it's a rather incomprehensible debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u99	Mr Piedboeuf has the floor, after which we will take a break.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u100	I would just like to point out to Mr. Van Hees that I have absolutely no resurrection power.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u101	Madam President, I would like to repeat briefly the words of Mr Laaouej, who apparently is a hard learner. First, I would like to respond briefly to Mr Verherstraeten. Mr Verherstraeten, the government has fallen because, among other things, it was much more important for your party to go to Marrakech instead of continuing the reform programme. That was the absolute priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u102	(...) to your colleague Peumans.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u103	That's it. That's why everything had to move. I was Secretary of Defense during those four weeks. It was then my job to sign my signature for the white fleet. I never did. However, I note that it was so important for you to go to Marrakech. However, we have had this debate a number of times. The more fundamental debate concerns the statements made by Mr Laaouej. Mr Laaouej, I really don't understand. First of all, you know a tax lift. We know that. The PS knows what a tax lift is. You know more taxes. Tax shift isn't hard to understand, though, is it? One is no longer taxed, but something else is taxed instead. It is ensured that overall the overall tax burden can be reduced and people ultimately pay less taxes. You call that "unfunded." Mr De Roover has tried to explain it. I'm trying to explain now. Secondly, le saut d'index, j'allais juste y venir. What's the purchasing power? The index jump in absolute terms meant about 8 euros per month on average less revenue for people. That is about 96 euros a year, including the effects of the changeover. Those aren't my statistics, that can be checked. In addition, a policy has been put in place to strengthen purchasing power. What does the KUL say, what does the National Bank say, what does other studies say? According to KUL, purchasing power increased by 5.2 % between 2014 and 2020. More than the index jump. So people have had to pay less taxes and they have been given a higher purchasing power. I know, it's obviously hard to understand that one can also do something in terms of less taxes and more purchasing power, but that can be effective. Go check it out. Look at the studies of the KUL and others, which clearly prove that purchasing power has increased. On that point, Madam President, I should like to conclude my speech. This government is constantly saying that it wants to fight fake news and that it will listen to the experts. Well, these are experts who say that the tax burden fell at that time and that purchasing power has increased among the Swedish government. These are experts who say that the current budget is incorrect. You say you want to fight fake news. I think it is a good thing that you immediately dump that ambition in the garbage, because that is what you apparently intend to do with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u104	Mr Van Hees, you are right to point out that the N-VA receives most of the party funding. There's a reason for that. That's the ballot box. The system is even so crazy that we have more Members here than your group. There are countries where this is not the case and where we can only vote for one party. They will then have the total party funding and may fill the entire hemisphere. I know you have some sympathy for that system, but here it works differently. One man, one vote, is translated into that too. The fact that we voted against these increases at the time and were unfortunately put in the minority, of course, you forget to mention that. The system that we are now proposing will ensure that there will not be a brittle break in party funding, but a drop which will, in a fairly short time, cause a serious reversal of party funding. We invite everyone to follow that proposal. We're not making much progress. Last year we had Open Vld at our side. As an ally, they have already lost weight in our attempt to make that party financing more realistic. Maybe the realization will come back that this wasn't a bad idea after all. Mr Verherstraeten, I can feel your hot breath in the neck, literally. A small question. In view of the outburst of corona, of course, we are facing much more expenditure. That makes perfect sense. You are right to think that these securities taxes should be introduced in those circumstances. I would like and can follow you if you had set an end date there, because you are, of course, entering that security tax permanently. You're not gonna stop it, I suppose, from the moment the corona problem is solved? I hope that the government does not insinuate that we will never control the corona virus again, so we need a definitive tax to tackle that problem. Mr Verherstraeten, we can table an amendment together to put an end to the securities tax, for example, at the end of 2021, but the first response of the Minister of Finance is not encouraging.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u105	For me, the securities tax is not a new tax. For me, it is a restoration of the judgment of the Constitutional Court. You agreed to that security tax. Then you want to abolish this tax after one or two years. Let's be a little realistic. Do you really think that the budgetary cost of the corona crisis will recover in two years? We have, rightly, spent billions on families, on people who have lost their jobs, on people who have become ill, on entrepreneurs to stay alive, while keeping their staff in service after temporary unemployment. This is a refund of years. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip076x.u106	We will take a break until 2 p.m., so a dozen minutes. Soon you will be able to answer for sure. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, December 16, 2020 at 2 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Wednesday 16 December 2020 at 2 p.m.
