ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u1	Madam President, three topical and urgent debates have taken place. Is it possible to set a time limit for each of these three debates? I'm afraid we'll stick to the first of the three. I also have a second suggestion. Can the Minister have his prepared answers to the questions put appended to the report? He will probably not be able to answer all the questions within the given timeframe, but if the answers are annexed to the report, then everyone will have an answer to the questions submitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u2	It's probably not a problem to deliver those answers. I'm looking at the minister for that. For the first topical debate, everyone who has tabled a question has two minutes to speak. For the answer, the Minister has five minutes, but it can of course be a little more. Then there is a possibility of reply. In a topical debate, other groups can join the questioners. I propose that the number of speakers be reduced to one per group. If there is no objection, we shall begin the first topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u3	Minister, I have two questions on the agenda that I will bring together. A few weeks ago, you replied to my question about consular assistance to Belgian prisoners in Iraq and Syria that it is not possible to provide consular assistance in the camps in Northern Syria, but that the detainees in Iraq can benefit from consular assistance. You also said that the Iraqi detainees had recently requested a consular visit and that they will be visited as soon as the local security situation permits. The Danish Foreign Minister, Jeppe Kofod, intends to withhold consular assistance for his citizens who have travelled abroad to fight for extremist groups. He stated: "We owe absolutely nothing to foreign fighters who have gone to Syria and Iraq to fight for ISIS. That is why we are now taking action against the access of foreign fighters to consular assistance by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Danish representations abroad." I have the following questions, Minister. In the meantime, even before the global outbreak of the corona virus, was consular assistance provided to the detainees in Iraq? Does the government share the Danish Government's view on consular protection? Is the government planning and/or is consular assistance planned for Belgian prisoners in Iraq and Syria? My next question is about the IS widows Tatiana Wielandt and Bouchra Abouallal. They were acquitted and released by a court in Turkey. The Turkish court considered that they did not violate Turkish laws and they were therefore released. The women are now waiting in a refugee camp for their expulsion to Belgium, but because of the coronavirus this may take some time. I would like to see a current state of affairs in the IS widows' file, Minister. Since Belgium has requested their extradition, when will they be transferred, or is there any thought of using all possible legal, diplomatic and political means to prevent the return of the two? What will happen if these two women are transferred to Belgium? Since they've been sentenced to five years in prison, are they going straight to jail? These IS widows each have one child with them, the other children have already been repatriated. What will happen to those two children? What possible repatriations of children and/or their parents are still under way?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u4	Mr Minister, I would like to receive an update from you. How many FTFs are still present in Iraq and Syria according to our data? How many more fugitives since the Turkish invasion? How many have been captured by the Turkish authorities? If you can give me those figures in writing, I am satisfied with that. There are 10 children in Syrian camps requiring consular assistance. What is the evolution in this file? Is there any evolution in the attitude of the mothers of those children in making repatriation possible? With regard to the extradition of persons such as Fouad Akrich who have meanwhile been deprived of Belgian nationality, I would like to hear what attitude we take with regard to ex-Belgen. Do we treat them like other people of Moroccan nationality who have ever had Belgian nationality? What is the impact of the corona crisis on the camps? Do you have any information on that? Does the disease affect supply? Finally, on 30 January, the Kurdish authorities announced that they themselves would proceed to trial. You said on 10 March that the details will be further worked out. Have there been any contacts there in the meantime? What'd they get you? Is there any possibility of making the expulsion from Belgian nationality mean to people in those camps? Have there been any contacts with the Iraqi Government regarding the possibility of persecution in the region?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u5	Madam President, Mr Minister, I should like to go back to the judgment of 3 March, which was handed down by the judge for seizure of the Dutch-speaking court of first instance in Brussels, which postponed the periodic penalty payments of EUR 5 000 per day per child which the Belgian State should have paid without repatriation within three months of the children detained with their mother in Al-Hol. This decision is in no way an annulment of the previous one. Our country will have to pay these sums if within three months of the written authorization received from the parents, consular assistance and papers have not been provided to them. On February 18, before this commission, you invited the mothers of these children to authorize repatriation. With regard to the judgment of the Foreign Terrorism Fighters (FTF), as we know, the death penalty is part of the Iraqi legal arsenal and the Kurdish courts are not an internationally recognized legal authority. On 18 February, you announced that you were questioning the legal value of the offer made by the Kurds of Syria to proceed with the judgement of the Belgian FTFs they hold. Minister, what is your analysis of the March 3 judgment? What is its impact on the evolution of the file? Have you been able to obtain any answers as to the legal value of the decisions to be taken by the judges of Syrian Kurdistan?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u6	Madam President, if you agree, I will also give the floor to my group chairman because we have questions on the same subject. Minister, my question is in the same direction as that of Mr. Ben Achour. Indeed, I also wonder about the Belgian State's commitments to the decision taken at the beginning of March by the Court of Appeal calling into question the need for repatriation, on the basis that the nationality of certain children born in Syria whose mothers are fighting terrorists cannot be demonstrated. We have already had a lot of debate on this issue in our committee, Minister. But I wonder what the effect of that judgment is and I would like to hear you say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u7	Madam President, Minister, I was asked about the possibility for Belgian families of origin or residence, or for Belgian naturalized Syrian families to adopt very young orphans who are still in camps currently protected by white helmets. Could you give us your opinion on the real possibility of getting out of the children of Syria in this way?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u8	Mr Minister, first of all, it has already been pointed out that despite the mission to Iraq, it has not been possible to provide the children concerned with the necessary documents. The Belgian State has made every effort to provide consular assistance. The court therefore held that the Belgian State was not in a position to provide those documents. The periodic penalty payments have therefore been lifted. The parents and children do not agree and have appealed. What is the status of the procedure? How does the Belgian government deal with this further? Secondly, the IS-brides Tatiana Wielandt and Bouchra Abouallal have been released from Turkish prison. What will happen to them? Will the hotspot procedure enter into force, with the Turkish authorities telling us what commercial flight they will be on, which is unlikely to be possible, or will our country actively repatriate them? Thirdly, there is also the question about the Kurdish authorities, who, as the other speakers have said, have proposed and organized a trial in the region. Are there any conversations about that? How do the other European Member States that form a coalition respond to this trial? What's the status of that? Finally, what is the state of play in the appeals brought by the government against judgments of French-speaking judges in Brussels on the repatriation of children and their mothers? Is there a view of the timing in this respect? What initiatives does the federal government plan to take in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u9	Mrs Soors, you have a question and you are here. I am happy to give you the floor for your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u10	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard more and more reports over the last few days that IS is benefiting from the corona crisis in order to make a new advance. I am concerned about this advance, especially in relation to the Belgian Foreign Terrorist Fighters, who are still there, and also in relation to our national security. I have three questions about this. Firstly, Minister, a few months ago the Kurds announced that they would try foreign fighters themselves. When I asked you about this in February 2020, the Belgian Government had yet to adopt its position. In the meantime, have the Kurds begun this trial? If so, have all Belgians been tried? In the meantime, what is our country's position on the Kurdish trial? Secondly, the Belgian Government long held the position of an international tribunal for the trial of the Foreign Terrorist Fighters. There is very little going on in that area with my knowledge. Does the Belgian Government still follow that view? If so, has there been any consultations with other countries? Any progress? If not, what is the alternative that will finally enable us to come to that trial? Thirdly, the corona crisis obviously also has an impact on the situation in the camps. Does the Belgian Government know of recent escapes from the camps by Belgian fighters? Does the Belgian Government still have a clear overview of where the Belgian Foreign Terrorist Fighters are currently located? For my other questions relating to mothers and children, I agree with the questions that have already been asked with a view to efficient use of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u11	I must thank everyone for the perfect use of time. Perfect within two minutes. If there are any other Members who would like to join the debate, please raise your hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u12	Minister, you know that our party remains of the opinion that we need to find a common solution for the FTFs who are still in the camps. In particular, we hope for a trial on the ground, preferably by an international tribunal. I have heard nothing more about it and I would therefore like to know what the government has done in this context through discussions with other EU ministers. There are disturbing reports everywhere that FTF would escape, partly through or with the possible escape of the coronavirus. Do we have a clear view of where our FTFs are located?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u13	Madam President, Minister, I saw this morning that the question I tabled in this debate, under the wrong title, is in the wrong place, but that does not really matter here. I think your associates have seen the question. I would particularly like to focus on the impact on Belgian security due to the situation in the Syrian IS camps following the Corona epidemic. In the foreign press, quite a lot has been published on this subject over the past few days. The situation is very precarious and difficult. I would therefore like to know what the impact of this on Belgian security is. Mr Minister, first of all, how do you evaluate the situation in the Kurdish IS camps and prisons in Northern Syria at the moment, since the Corona outbreak? What risks do you consider to be associated with this situation for Belgium? Secondly, have there been any contacts over the last few weeks with the Kurds who are responsible for those camps and their monitoring? How can our country ensure that the situation in these camps remains stable? Is there any way in which we can support it? Thirdly, what is your current assessment of the Kurdish engagement in the region to continue guarding those European IS fighters? Is this commitment there or is it reducing, and will it even disappear because of the additional difficulties caused by the corona crisis? Finally, since the government is not working in a normal situation and given the importance of this problem, are you prepared to take this discussion much more intensively with Parliament? It is, after all, an international issue which is not everywhere in the highlights, but it is seen in the foreign press that this problem, and the danger it poses, is becoming increasingly acute. It therefore seems to me normal and desirable that the government and you should submit this to Parliament on a frequent basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this topical debate allows me to inform you about the latest developments on the FTF file. The news is obviously focused on managing the crisis of coronavirus. Despite a topical focus on managing the coronavirus crisis, with the help of the competent Belgian authorities, we obviously intend to repatriate Belgian children in camps in Syria. Before answering your questions, I would like to quickly recall the government's policy guidelines, which are strictly the same as those set out in the plenary session in early January 2020 and in a previous topical debate in our committee. Based on the decision of the National Security Council of February 2018, the Belgian government examines the theoretical and practical operational modes that allow the effective return of these children. There is therefore no obligation to achieve results with regard to the effective repatriation of children. The last four judgements on appeal have reinforced the Belgian Government's position. I would remind you that we must obtain the agreement of the mothers of these children to leave Belgium without them. We must also obtain that of the Rojava authorities. That is why, Mrs Samyn, I can already answer your question. There are currently no further repatriations of children or their mothers. The other points in your question relating to the expulsion of two FTFs in Turkey concern in particular my colleague in the judiciary; I invite you to turn to him. As for adults, the Belgian Government's position is identical to that of its European partners: it is preferable that these FTFs be prosecuted and judged in the region. This also answers Mrs Soors' question by adding that non bis in idem only applies if the facts mentioned are the same on the spot as in Belgium, which must be demonstrated. We are continuing discussions with our European partners so that the Iraqi justice system can judge the FTFs with respect for human rights. And we continue to study Kurdish proposals to judge them on their soil. It is not a question of having FTFs judged at all costs. The issue of humanitarian guarantees, in terms of fundamental rights – conditions of detention, adversarial and transparent aspects of trials and non-application of the death penalty – is obviously a key element in these discussions. On this specific point, Mr Dallemagne is not here, but with regard to his question, on the request of the Rojava authorities for cooperation in the trial of foreign FTFs, I invite you to turn to my colleague from Justice. Mrs Soors, I have no information confirming or not confirming the trial against the Belgians in Rojova. Madam President, I now turn to the specific questions. Mrs Samyn, as far as your question is concerned, it is true that consular assistance is not an absolute right and that travelling by fellow countrymen to war is one of the grounds for exclusion that can ensure that these persons no longer claim consular assistance. As a general rule, this does not provide consular assistance to persons who deliberately travelled to war zone to join a terrorist organisation. However, with regard to the persons detained in Iraq, who were both sentenced to death, it was decided, from a humanitarian point of view and in line with our attitude towards the death penalty, to grant limited consular assistance. Several issues, including Mr. De Roover and Mrs Jadin refer to legal proceedings against the Belgian State. On 25 February 2020, the court of periodic penalty payments, the judge of the Brussels court of first instance (Dutch-speaking chamber), suspended the periodic penalty payments due in the event of failure to comply with the order of 11 December 2019 which he himself had pronounced. In this decision, the judge acknowledges that the Belgian State is currently unable to comply with the order of 11 December 2019 and that no penalty payment is therefore required. The obligations of the Ordinance remain, however, and the decision of 25 February 2020 provides that periodic penalty payments will resume if these obligations, namely consular assistance and the issuance of travel documents to children only, are not fulfilled by the State three months after the mothers and fathers have agreed to be separated from their respective children. In addition, the appeal proceedings of the Order of 11 December 2019 are currently under way. The hearing on 26 February 2020 did take place, but the Brussels Court of Appeal – the Dutch-speaking Chamber – fixed a new hearing on 8 April 2020 so that the parties could conclude on certain additional points. Due to confinement, this hearing is postponed to a date that is still undetermined. The Court of Appeal will rule on the whole of the order, which includes the periodic penalty payments imposed by the first judge. Moreover, in two judgments of 5 March 2020, the Brussels Court of Appeal – the French-speaking role – declared the Belgian State's appeals against the orders of 30 October and 2 December 2019 to be valid. By these orders, the Belgian State had been ordered to repatriate two Belgian mothers, considered as FTF, and their alleged children within 75 days from the date of service of each order, under penalty of EUR 2000 per day of delay, starting from the expiry of the above-mentioned periods, with a maximum of EUR 750,000 per file. On 5 March 2020, the Court of Appeal ruled that children were not validly represented in the cases to be dealt with by the Court of Appeal because of the absence of recognized maternal filiation. For the same reason, these children do not currently have Belgian nationality and therefore do not fall within the scope of the Government Decision of February 2018. Applications made on behalf of children are therefore inadmissible. As far as mothers were concerned, their requests were considered unfounded. That is the judicial aspect of this case. Mr Dallemagne asked a specific question about Kurdish responsibility for funding the programme mentioned, but Mr Dallemagne is absent today. Mevrow Soors, a few details. My services were not informed by the records of the camps of any recent escapes from the camps. I still have a clear overview in which camps and prisons managed by the Syrian Kurds the Belgian FTFs are located. An outbreak of corona in the camps could have serious consequences. Hence the local authorities are working with international aid organisations to prevent infections in the camps. Currently, four Belgian FTFs returning from Syria have been arrested in Turkey. For two, the Turkish authorities already considered that they would be deported to Belgium; the suspension of flights from Turkey to Belgium does not allow this for the time being. The Turkish authorities still have to decide on the two other Belgian FTFs. I will conclude by answering Mr Piedboeuf's question on the possibility for Belgian families to adopt orphaned Syrian children still in their country. The subject matter of the question does not fall directly within the competence of my department, but I can nevertheless provide the following useful information. In view of the information in our possession, Syrian law, like that of other Muslim countries, does not know the adoption, prohibited by Islamic law. However, there is a legal form of care for a child by parents who are not related to the child. It's the Kafalah. A contract is signed before a judge or notary and the adoptive parents undertake to provide care for that child whose custody they obtain in place of his biological family. However, even if the adoptive parents have parental responsibility for the child, there is no filiation with the child. The latter, entrusted by 'Kafalah', is not adopted in the eyes of Belgian law. In any event, as with the entry into force on 1 September 2005 of the law reforming adoption, the powers in matters of adoption were divided between the federal and the Communities as follows: only the federal central authority, established within the FPS Justice, is responsible for the recognition of adoptions established abroad. The Communities, on the other hand, have jurisdiction in all matters relating to the assistance, accompaniment and assistance provided to adopters and adopters, adopted applicants and members of their families.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u15	Minister, the sound remains very digital, which is unpleasant. Is it better this way? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u16	That's better.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u17	Mr De Roover, with regard to your question on FTFs, I can tell you the following. As far as I know, there are 22 Belgian women in camps in Syria. On Mr Akrich's situation, he is being held in Turkey and I am not aware of a date for his appearance before a judge.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u18	I would like to return the floor to colleagues for a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for clarifying consular assistance. As far as the return of the IS widowes is concerned, I continue to worry about the security risk for our people. The IS widows deliberately chose to go to Syria twice, and against any advice. Worse still, they also participated in the atrocities there. Within a few years, after their possible prison time here in Belgium, they'll be back on the street at large. Actually, that's beyond comprehension. The Flemish interest keeps repeating that the government must listen to the people. Don't let any IS terrorist into our country anymore. These terrorists must be tried and held in the region where they committed their crimes. This is the only way we can protect our people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It will be because of my electronic equipment that I've missed things. I will therefore take note with interest of your reply in the written report, since I have not been able to follow regularly. We're about to see the limitations of electronic meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u21	The written report will indeed be useful for everyone to read.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u22	Minister, thank you for that answer. I will take the time to read it again in the written report, since I also had a small technical concern. I don't know if the problem was with the minister's microphone or my computer. However, I will not fail to refer to the written answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u23	I think it's even harder to listen to at home than here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u24	Madam President, personally, I did not have a technical problem and I heard the minister's answer as to the effects of the judgment. It perfectly answers the questions I was asking myself. I therefore thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u25	Minister, I take it from your answer that it is not possible but that it is feasible. You just have to be a little imaginative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u26	I think we're gonna keep going round and round about trial in that region, which the government always shields with. The right to a fair trial and the avoidance of torture cannot always be guaranteed in Iraq. It seems that the Syrian Kurds are now being studied to see whether they could set up judicial bodies and bring them to justice. Hopefully this will be done in cooperation with the European CORE 7 countries (?) and the development of a common position. It would be useful if the trial were to take place there and if the necessary guarantees were available, I would like to deal with this matter in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u27	Minister, I have been able to understand the most important parts of your reply. The good news is that you have a clear overview of the Belgians in the camps. There are, of course, those who are not in camps and I have not heard whether our intelligence services have a clear picture of where they are at the moment. Are they part of the advance of IS? What are their plans for the coming period? Are they mainly active in the region itself? Are there any attempts to return under the radar? These fundamental questions need to be answered by our services. I have also heard you say that a corona outbreak in the camps could have serious consequences. That's right. We are now concerned about an outbreak of corona in the camps, while a few months ago we were concerned about the impact of Turkish politics on the situation in the camps. The situation is volatile, because she's unstable. As long as there is no long-term solution, it will remain so. The reference to trial in Iraq is therefore not enough, because people who have committed crimes cannot be tried in Iraq. A reference to trial by the Kurds is unclear, because they do not have a recognised state and therefore the validity of trial by them does not offer any certainty. Minister, many words in favour of a long-term solution that offers stability, security and, above all, security. As long as that solution does not exist, we are exposing ourselves to risks for our own national security. That is not what the inhabitants of our country, who are already living in great insecurity, deserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u28	Madam President, Minister, I am told that we have little idea of this trial in the region, which is particularly important to us. Mr Van Hoof, I agree with what you say. We must have all the guarantees there that it is a fair trial. That is why we need an international tribunal. Apparently, there is still no clarity as to how we can solve that. I find this particularly regrettable, so I would urge that the necessary steps be taken there fairly quickly to ensure the safety of citizens in that country. It remains clear to us: we need an international tribunal on the ground there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u29	Madam President, Minister, it would be good if Parliament were to give all ministers a headset. After all, I have only understood parts of the answer, so I shall read the report. I do not understand whether our government has sufficient information on the security risks caused by the deteriorating situation in the camps and the detention of IS fighters. I would like to reiterate my request that the government regularly update Parliament on this matter. Otherwise, we must continue to hear about this through the press and, above all, through the foreign press. I believe that this is important enough to inform Parliament spontaneously. If you think that is possible, Minister, I would very much appreciate it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u30	Mr Crombez, we have heard your question and will take it with us. I don't think there are any more replies. Then we can move on to the next topical debate on the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u31	Madam President, Minister, my two questions are related; they concern the catastrophic effects of Donald Trump's policy in the United States. We have the impression that it is actually fighting against multilateralism and international cooperation – in short, quite the opposite of what should be done in this time of crisis that affects us all, especially the most fragile. As far as Iran is concerned, since 2018, US sanctions have had a huge impact on the Iranian economy and, above all, on health care. Indeed, Iran is no longer capable of producing medicines and medical equipment. However, it is the epicentre of the epidemic in the Middle East. Mr Minister, apart from the company of INSTEX, which we shall be discussing again, what efforts have you made with our European partners to maintain humanitarian aid and access to health care for the Iranian people? How do we also guarantee respect for human rights in Iran? I am thinking in particular of the situation in prisons. Finally, how can we protect our nationals who are on the spot, under particularly difficult conditions? Another aspect of Donald Trump's damaging policy is the suspension of the US contribution to WHO. I would remind you that it is equivalent to 22 per cent of this organization's budget. It's still significant. Here too, Minister, I saw that our government responded very quickly. I sincerely welcome this very positive response. We are aware of Belgium's commitment to multilateralism, which it is wise to recall in the face of Trump's threats. Having said that, what is the European Union's concrete response? To help the WHO and therefore the poorest and most vulnerable countries facing the virus, does our country propose to compensate for the loss of the US budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u32	Madam President, under agenda item 32, I have included a question concerning INSTEX, which concerns the situation in Iran in the context of the health crisis. I would therefore like it to be part of the current affairs debate that we have just opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u33	You have the freedom to do so. You will be discussed later and then you will be able to integrate that question into the question you wanted to ask. So you do what you want with it: you ask the question you wish to ask about it. You will have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u34	Minister, I myself have five questions that I am trying to put together in two minutes. The first question is about mouth mask diplomacy, perhaps the new word of the year. Taiwan has provided free mouth masks to nine EU Member States. This is also a way of being recognised by the European Union. The Chinese, however, have almost a distribution and control policy: they have already exported 2.7 billion masks. Foreign representative Borrell refers to the geopolitical component in the mouth mask diplomacy and also to the Chinese attitude in this area, which is a fight for influence. How do you view this, Minister? Have the Taiwanese masks been delivered? Do you see a mouth mask diplomacy going on? My second question is in line with Mr Cogolati's question about the World Health Organization and the US contribution that has been suspended. President Donald Trump stated that it is an inefficient and bureaucratic organisation and that the Chinese influence is far too great in the World Health Organisation. How do you view this criticism and the Chinese ambition to become a world leader in health? My third question concerns the inclusion of international patients. I've been over that before. It was remarkable that President Macron referred to Germany, Luxembourg, Austria and Switzerland who had already admitted Italian and French patients to their hospitals. I personally regret that the Belgian authorities have not made any efforts to do so. It was a feasible gesture that will be remembered for a long time in diplomacy. Why did our country not make a symbolic contribution to this at the time? Why is this not also better coordinated within the European Union? My fourth question concerns the security situation in Iraq and Syria and the corona virus. IS is taking advantage of the corona crisis to advance back towards Palmyra. Camps of foreign IS suspects were also attacked. How are you looking at that advance, Minister? How can the safety of prisons be guaranteed there? How are you looking at the accelerated withdrawal of Western troops from Iraq due to the corona crisis? My final question concerns the stock announced by the Saudi Arab coalition in Yemen in this money-consuming war. That file is being viewed by the Houthi rebels as a diversion. Meanwhile, more than 12 million Yemenis are moaning under the famine. A major UN humanitarian plan has also been drawn up which will require a large number of billions of dollars to ensure that Yemenis do not die of starvation. How do you look at that truce? How has the UN Security Council reacted? In what way will our country contribute to that UN plan for Yemen to help them out of this crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u35	Minister, for the sake of strict health measures taken worldwide to prevent the spread of the corona virus, it is no longer possible to travel for tourism purposes. Many foreigners now see their visa lost because they cannot travel to Belgium. A visa for non-EU nationals wishing to travel to Belgium should be requested from the Belgian embassy or consulate where they live. Is it true, Minister, that a tourist will have to re-apply his visa if he is unable to travel with a previously approved visa because of the corona measures? Will costs have to be paid again or will an exception be made for these circumstances? In a specific case one should travel one day and take the plane to the embassy to get the visa application in order. Is there any thought to make an exception for such cases and to automatically renew the visa?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u36	Minister, INSTEX recently registered a first transaction involving medical equipment. This progress has been described by Iran as a "good omen", but it believes that this progress is still insufficient. The final implementation of INSTEX within the defined framework seems all the more essential as Iran is dramatically affected by VOCID-19. As such, the last official assessment, dated April 8, reported almost 4000 deaths, but this is likely an underestimation. The U.S. administration recalls that medical supplies are not affected by the restrictions. In practice, however, the difficulty of carrying out financial operations also affects this sector, particularly because of the extraterritorial dimension of US law and, consequently, the sanctions that its Government decides. In this context, on 24 March, Michelle Bachelet, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, called, inter alia, for a easing or even suspension of sanctions against Iran. Minister, when will the INSTEX mechanism be fully operational? What is the status of its implementation? Are there any other exchanges planned, particularly in the fight against VOCID-19? In this context, what position does our country stand within the European Union and the United Nations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u37	Madam President, Minister, I have just asked you a question in committee about China's responsibility for the global corona crisis and the lessons to be drawn from it for our future dealings with the country. I have looked at your answers to this very carefully. This will undoubtedly require the necessary follow-up. About the Chinese responsibility for spreading the coronavirus, the Washington Post recently released reasonably explosive news. It is news that can almost not be brought out without a wide range of roads and roads, the consequences of which may well be far-reaching. According to the article, American diplomats warned about unsafe Chinese research on bats already in 2018, so two years before the virus first appeared in China. It is specifically about research into viruses in bats in the famous research laboratory in the Chinese city of Wuhan. It is said that the scientists would not always have acted with caution. American diplomats have drawn up reports following various visits by scientists to the research laboratory. One of the reports states as a warning that these viruses may pass to humans and that this poses a risk for a new SARS-like pandemic. There would also be a shortage of well-educated technicians and researchers needed to make the high-capacity laboratory work safely. This suggests, of course without hard evidence, that the virus did not just pass from animal to human, but that it did escape from a lab. We all know that the Chinese government refuses to release further information on the origin of the virus and that several Chinese specialists have disappeared. What is your reaction to the above news? Have you had any recent consultations with our diplomats about the Chinese responsibility in this matter? Can you brief us on this? Will you raise the Chinese responsibility in the entire file in other fora? If so, what will our approach be?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u38	Minister, I also have a question about mouth mask diplomacy and I would like to refer to what the European High Representative has said about this. He stated that the policy of generosity also has a geopolitical component in the struggle for influence. I have a few specific questions about this. Mr Minister, can you give an overview of all the international institutions and third countries that donated material to our country? How do you interpret the decision to send King Filip into the field to contact President Xi personally for support and his promise to strengthen ties in the light of the High Representative's comments? Do you expect this Chinese support to have a price, something that has already been warned about within NATO and the European Union? If so, what form can it take, according to the government's analysis? It was decided within the European Council to make efforts to counter disinformation on different platforms and to promote transparency. People want to make the voice of the European Union sound louder in the 'communication war' that is currently going on. What concrete initiatives can we expect in this respect? What does the government propose at European level to arm ourselves against aggressive self-promotion?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u39	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I hope you're all fine. Minister, we have seen US President Donald Trump threaten, in the midst of a pandemic, that his government will suspend his country's contribution to the World Health Organization (WHO). In particular, he accuses the organization of having made mistakes in its approach to the VOCID-19 pandemic, and of being too close to China. This action would be disastrous for the international coordination of the approach to the epidemic. It would hit especially the most vulnerable countries in the South, which rely on WHO to assist them in this crisis, just as this organization has done recently with the epidemics of Zika or Ebola. This is not only an effort by President Trump to avoid recognizing his own responsibility in his disastrous and late response to the spread of the virus, but also the umpteenth time that the United States is withdrawing from international cooperation. Mr Minister, does Belgium condemn this removal of the contribution of the United States to the WHO, which will affect the whole world and especially the most vulnerable nations? Will Belgium take an initiative to have this action condemned by the United States and to defend WHO in the Security Council as a temporary member of this Council? Does Belgium intend, as Ireland has done, to increase its own contribution to WHO or to take another initiative to compensate for the lack of resources that will affect WHO following the abolition of the US contribution? Let me turn to my second question. The VUB and Audi workers are working together to produce breathers. Prototypes are already being produced and the workers are ready. They are awaiting approval from the authorities. We have asked Mrs De Block the question, but she has not yet given an answer. There is an urgent need for the government to address this issue. You don't have to drag the file, considering the emergency. Breathers will be needed in the coming days, whether at home or in other countries in need. Workers take on their responsibilities as citizens, at the service of the community, as has already been done in Spain. It's the government's turn to do the same. It is in times of crisis as we are experiencing today that national and international solidarity is essential to save lives. There is, for example, a catastrophic lack of respirators on the African continent where coronavirus is spreading very quickly at the moment. Minister, can we inform about the evolution of the approval process for these respirators and the possibility of offering them to other countries that need them, especially among the less developed countries outside Europe? Can you also inform us about Belgium's efforts in terms of solidarity and international aid?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u40	Madam President, Minister, I would like to return to two issues that we also discussed last time in the Committee on External Relations, namely Gaza and the United Nations call for a global ceasefire. I'll start with Gaza. As we all know, the situation in Gaza is extremely precarious and remains so. UNRWA and other organisations are looking for additional resources. The blockade of Gaza at the closed border with Egypt is an additional obstacle to an efficient response. That is a problem that is very close to our heart. At the previous committee of 7 April 2020, you stated that Belgium has already allocated EUR 1 million to address the health risks. You added, I quote you now: 'that internal discussions are underway in order to increase that amount'. My first question is, of course, the following. Have these discussions been settled yet? Is an effective amount above that EUR 1 million released? Has our country or the European Union in recent weeks been exerting pressure on Israel to assist the Palestinians in Gaza but also in the West Bank in their fight against the virus? Was pressure applied to ease the blockade of Gaza, at least for the medical equipment? Secondly, at the beginning of March 2020, the United Nations call for a global ceasefire was made by UN Secretary-General Guterres. At the External Relations Commission on 7 April 2020, you stated that Belgium, together with 52 other UN Member States, supported this call. You also stated at that time that Belgium would, if possible, express its support for the appeal in the UN Security Council. So I'd like to get an update from you. What position has our country taken on the UN Security Council since 7 April 2020? Have we effectively reiterated our support for the initiative there? In your opinion, what are the prospects? Can we make progress in this area in the UN Security Council? Is there a common position of the European Union? What's your assessment on the premises? Is the call taken seriously in a number of conflict areas? Is there an active mediation in a number of conflict zones to effectively achieve a global ceasefire? Who's the guy who's been mediated by? What results have been achieved?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u41	Minister, a few days ago, I asked Minister De Croo in plenary about how the WHO had managed the beginning of the global crisis of VOCID-19 and about the transparency of the information exchanged. I asked him, in particular, about possible slight guilt on the part of the WHO. On that occasion, he agreed that an in-depth evaluation of the functioning of WHO would certainly be required. Since then, we have learned that Australia has formally called for an independent study on the global fight against the coronavirus pandemic and how WHO has managed this crisis. The country believes that it needs to know details that "only an independent report can reveal the origin of the virus and how to deal with it, as well as the transparency with which the information has been shared". Minister, what is Belgium's position on this? Are you considering taking the lead in Australia and formally claiming such an investigation? Have discussions on this issue already been held with your European counterparts?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u42	Madam President, Minister, I have two questions. Firstly, Mr Trump uses hard language in relation to the World Health Organization. He is talking about inefficiency and a bureaucratic organisation, but above all about the fact that the WHO would have followed the Chinese government without criticism and slavish. The US has therefore suspended its contribution in the middle of this pandemic. Belgium believes that the WHO has done a good job and that it is certainly needed in this fight. We can, of course, follow that, especially now in the middle of this pandemic. How do we intend to support the WTO? Are there plans to increase our contribution to fill the gap struck by Mr Trump - perhaps only temporarily? Secondly, as far as Trump's criticism of the Chinese government is concerned, there is still more and more serious evidence that China could bear a great deal of responsibility in the outbreak of this pandemic. I assume that the details of this are well known to all of us here. My question is therefore whether you have consulted with Chinese or Belgian diplomats in the region. How serious do we take these allegations? What is our attitude to this matter? Have you discussed this with your European colleagues?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u43	Mrs Depoorter, you have tabled two questions. Are you able to make contact?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u44	Madam President, I did it. Mr Minister, my question concerns the World Health Organisation and the positioning of our country in relation to the decisions taken by the US administration regarding the withdrawal of donations to the organisation. Ministers Goffin and De Croo have joined the WHO's support. In a press release they stated that Belgium considered that the WHO had done a good job and that a more thorough evaluation would come later. That is in fact a direct denial of the accusations made by other states. Do you mean that you are already in a clear position or that you will make the evaluation effective later? It's... a very big responsibility. Especially in the unprecedented crisis that we are now experiencing, we must be very careful about positioning. Minister, how do you estimate the consequences of the American decision in the further fight against COOVID-19? What are the consequences for the day-to-day operation of the organisation in the short term? After all, it is now time to tackle the crisis. What are the consequences? The Minister considers that the WHO has done a good job. Is it the opinion of the government that the organisation has given adequate and timely advice on what priority measures should be taken at each stage of the epidemic and on the impact of the virus?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u45	Mrs. Depoorter, the noise's dropping. I suspect your Internet connection is not strong enough. Maybe you could finish with your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u46	Minister, the evaluation will follow later. What work areas does the government take to this evaluation? On which forum will the rewrite take place? The Minister also informs at the departure of the United States that... [[connection is insufficient]] .
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u47	Mrs Depoorter, I must interrupt you again because the connection is very bad and we cannot hear you. I propose that we refer to the written question. Everyone's been covered. Then I am happy to give the floor to the Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to answer as precisely as possible the many questions that have sometimes been received very late following a few computer bugs, I shall divide my presentation into five main chapters, each of which brings together a number of questions asked: 1. United Nations; 2. WHO; 3. Regional issues: Iran, Iraq/Syria, Yemen, Libya, Gaza Strip, and Russia and Belarus; 4. With my Minister of Defence hat, the help of our national army; 5. Finally, a number of more technical points. Mr De Vriendt, the UN has indeed launched a solemn call for a 'global ceasefire' to better combat the VOCID-19 pandemic. In several armed conflicts, signs of calm are emerging, even if a sustained diplomatic commitment is needed to convert these promises into action. During the debate in the UN Security Council with Secretary-General (SGUN) Gutteres on 9 April, Belgium indeed supported his call for a global ceasefire. In the field, the special envoys of the SGVN are mainly trying to mediate in this. Despite the efforts of the Envoys and the SGVN itself, everything falls or stands in the first place with the willingness of warring parties worldwide to cease their struggle. Unfortunately, this willingness is greater in some situations than in others. Negotiations on the COOVID resolution currently before the UN Security Council continue. Hopefully they will produce results in the coming days. Mrs Van Hoof and Mrs Van Bossuyt, as you may know, a large number of European Heads of State or Government have been in contact with their Chinese homologs in recent weeks in the context of the current COOVID-19 crisis. Our country is no exception to this rule, and the conversation between King Filip and President Xi Jinping on 2 April of this year bears witness to this. China is a major supplier of medical equipment that is needed in Belgium and has a significant share of state-owned companies in the economy. These contacts help to draw attention to cooperation, the importance of this medical material for our country and for smooth export procedures. These contacts will continue to be followed up with the competent authorities, including the Chinese Ministry of Trade, MofCom. I can also confirm that Belgium is currently continuing its efforts, with the support of the Chinese authorities, to obtain large purchases of medical equipment up to Belgium. As you know, this is happening under the impetus of the task force led by Minister De Backer. Taiwan has achieved a daily production of almost 13 million masks per day and is therefore self-sufficient. His leaders wanted to make a gesture of solidarity. They stated on 1 April that Taiwan would make a humanitarian donation of 10 million surgical masks to the United States, the EU and certain countries in Europe - including Belgium. A total of 7 million were sent to Europe, of which our country received 500,000. The palettes were delivered on Friday afternoon 9 April to the competent military distribution centre located in the Major Housiau Quarter in Peutie. We are grateful to Taiwan for this generous gesture of solidarity in our joint fight against a virus that demands countless victims worldwide. Belgium has so far received a number of donations, including 500 000 mouth masks from the Alibaba Foundation of Jack Ma. Furthermore, private individuals, professional organisations and regional authorities from China have given us certain amounts of medical material. We speak here among others. on mouth masks, face shields and protective suits intended for care staff in Belgian hospitals. The diplomatic foreign affairs network in China plays a facilitating role in channeling these donations. The solidarity that exists is not limited to the donors mentioned above. Our country may also receive a donation with mouth masks from Vietnam. Solidarity is crucial in order to cope with this unprecedented crisis worldwide. Belgium, together with the EU, calls for international solidarity, but also for responsibility. Now is not the time for mutual accusations or tension. In order to avoid misunderstandings, we must avoid international aid being instrumentalised within a struggle between political systems. That is why we need to look in particular at the very important efforts that the EU and the Member States themselves are making in the fight against COOVID-19, including in terms of international aid to vulnerable countries. We must then also communicate clearly and jointly on this issue. Since the beginning of the crisis in December 2019, I have heard a number of criticisms about WHO and its management of this pandemic. I thank Mrs Van Hoof and Mr Depoorter and Mr Cogolati and Mr Boukili for being able to express their views on this subject. Belgium regrets the decision of the United States to suspend its contribution to the World Health Organisation (WHO). Belgium has committed itself to continuing to support the WHO politically and financially to bridge this difficult period, both directly and within the EU framework. A joint response to the US decision, including a joint declaration by EU Member States on behalf of the High Representative for European Foreign Policy Josep Borrell, is currently being developed at EU level. In the UN Security Council, Belgium has already supported several COOVID 19 initiatives in the context of conflict and international security. However, as a specialised organisation, the WHO is covered by the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC). The matter will therefore not be dealt with by the Security Council. If the United States decides to permanently suspend its contribution following its assessment of WHO action, this will have a significant impact on the multilateral approach to health. China has great ambitions in this area. As a strong advocate of multilateralism, including in the area of health, our country welcomes China's commitment to multilateral organizations, but stresses the importance of transparency and respect for the rules of the existing system. China could help fill in the vacuum created by the US, but it cannot do so alone. Indeed, the Chinese WTO contribution is significantly lower than that of the US. Other actors, including Belgium and the EU, will also have to assume their responsibility to support the WHO and maintain the proper functioning of the organisation. At this stage, it is too early to draw conclusions on WHO's approach to the VOCID-19 pandemic and China's influence on the organization. In general, Belgium believes that the organisation is doing good work. Since WHO is the only coordinating organization at the global level, our country considers it particularly important, in the midst of a pandemic, to support the organization as best it can. After the crisis, an in-depth assessment will be made of WHO's action and leadership in this crisis. As an active member of WHO, Belgium will continue to advocate for transparent management by the organisation, based on scientific and objective data. Let's go to the impact analysis of the virus in some countries. In Iran first, Mr Cogolati and Heer De Roover, at the end of March INSTEX successfully completed its first transaction, facilitating the export of medical equipment from Europe to Iran. The mechanism is therefore operational. Several other transactions are currently at different stages of finalization. Belgium is one of INSTEX's shareholders and the scheme is open to Belgian companies, including those wishing to export medical equipment as part of the fight against VOCID-19. The United States sanctions provide for humanitarian exemptions. In practice it can be seen that it is difficult to rely on it. Belgium fully supports the Declaration of 3 April by High Representative Josep Borrell, who stresses, on behalf of the EU, that sanctions should not prevent the provision of the equipment and equipment necessary to combat coronavirus and limit its worldwide spread. In the United Nations National Security Council, our country is facilitator for the implementation of Resolution 2231, which includes the JCPOA, the nuclear agreement with Iran. The Security Council usually meets twice a year to discuss this issue. The withdrawal of the United States from the JCPOA and the reintroduction of US sanctions against Iran are a recurring theme at these meetings. Belgium, like the other members of the Security Council that are part of the European Union, deplores this withdrawal and the reintroduction of sanctions, as well as the withdrawal of nuclear exemptions. The next UN Security Council meeting in format 2231 will take place in June. I expect this position to be defended again. You both asked more political questions about the situation in Iran. The humanitarian aid budget does not allow direct humanitarian funding to be considered in Iran at this stage in view of the geographical and strategic priorities set out in the humanitarian strategy, but it has been decided to accelerate payments to flexible international funds to enable them to respond to the fight against VOCID-19. It had already been decided earlier to increase certain pooled funds. For further details, I would ask you to contact my colleague for development cooperation. I share your deep concern about the latest developments in Iran. The Belgian embassy in Tehran and my services in Brussels follow the situation closely. General conditions of detention in Iran remain a major concern: reports of overcrowding, poor nutrition and lack of hygiene indicate a high risk to the health of prisoners, which is aggravated by the spread of the VOCID-19 virus. Our embassy in Tehran has therefore been very active since the beginning of the crisis to support Belgians and also Belgians with dual nationality who have expressed the wish to return to our country. The Government has expressed its deep concern regarding the excessive use of force against persons peacefully exercising their civil and political rights during the demonstrations of November 2019 and is in line with the calls for independent and impartial investigations. We continue to raise these concerns systematically in all our contacts with Iran, and call on Iran to respect its human rights obligations and to bring detention conditions and practices in line with international standards. Yemen, Iraq and Syria then, Madam President. I immediately welcomed the unilateral announcement by the coalition led by Saudi Arabia for a ceasefire. Compliance with a ceasefire is essential to allow the country to organise against this epidemic. It is all the more important because it can form a basis for the re-establishment of the political process, but all parties must respect the cease-fire. This is not yet the case. Belgium will therefore continue to call on all parties to respect it and engage constructively with the United Nations Special Envoy, Martin Griffiths. We continue to advocate an inclusive, political solution under the auspices of the UN. In the United Nations Security Council, we establish a relative consensus between the Member States on the Yemeni conflict. Last Thursday, 16 April, the UN Security Council unanimously supported the ceasefire and efforts of Special Envoy Martin Griffiths. In the Security Council, Belgium also continues to advocate respect for human rights, international humanitarian law and unrestricted access to humanitarian aid. The citizens and children in particular are the first victims of this devastating conflict. In this context, I am pleased that Belgium, as chairman of the working group on the fate of children in an armed conflict, was able to announce on 8 April the unanimous adoption of the conclusions on the situation of children in armed conflict in Yemen. My colleague, Minister De Croo, who attaches great importance to multilateralism, has joined the efforts to coordinate the response to COOVID under the leadership of the OCHA and the WHO. The GHRP Global Humanitarian Response Plan (GHRP) is a call for additional resources for United Nations agencies and NGOs already active on the ground through various humanitarian operations. It is primarily a question of strengthening the programmes already in operation. Belgium will contribute EUR 22 million to this plan. Belgium has also increased its participation in the Yemen Humanitarian Fund. It will contribute €5 million in 2020. UNICEF's and World Doctors' programmes are also active. Part of their activities will be reoriented for the response to the pandemic. The ceasefire negotiated between Russia and Turkey in the northwest of Syria, the large Idleb region, seems to be holding up relatively well. Some minor incidents are mentioned, but generally the parties respect the agreement. The joint Russian-Turkish patrols do clash with local protests, possibly opposition groups. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in Syria is primarily humanitarian. It goes without saying that after more than nine years of war, the medical infrastructure in Syria is insufficient to cope with an additional crisis like this. It is therefore very important that we continue our humanitarian efforts. Furthermore, it is essential that humanitarian access to the country is maintained, including for medical equipment to combat the corona virus. The renewal of the UN Security Council's so-called cross-border resolution before 10 July is an important priority for Belgian diplomacy. As you know, our country, as a coordinator for humanitarian affairs in the UN Security Council, is also responsible for the negotiations for that extension. It is not excluded that Daesh/IS will try to use the coronapandemic to re-revenue profits on the premises. Incidents with Daesh fighters have been reported, among other things, in the southwest of the Euphrates and in the northwest of Syria. The situation in the northeast, under Kurdish control, is relatively stable, but there is also mention of smaller attacks against the Kurdish forces of the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF). Despite the reduced presence of the American troops, the joint actions of the US and the SDF against Daesh will continue. After all, the conviction within the International Coalition against Daesh remains very strong to maintain the operations against Daesh. This proved to be the case in the discussions of the political directors of the members of the International Coalition last week. The security of camps and prisons in the Syrian-Kurdish northeast is indeed a concern of the international community and the International Coalition against Daesh in particular. The spread of the corona virus can also have a special impact in these camps and prisons. At the Belgian level, we are currently investigating the possibility of making a financial contribution to a project of ICRC that seeks to support, among other things, the reception of prisoners in northeast Syria. Certain troops of the anti-Daesh coalition in Iraq are being reorganized. They are concentrated on Secured Bases, partly in Kuwait This was already planned but there is an accelerated implementation, given the uncertainty surrounding the health situation. Iraqi troops have taken over multiple bases that were evacuated. Although no training and training activities are currently taking place, counter-terrorism operations continue. Some countries have temporarily repatriated troops that have been training, but intend to re-exploit them whenever possible. The entire scope of these operations is not yet known. For Libya, Mr De Roover, the UN Security Council has already called on the warring parties to abide by a humanitarian ceasefire, as you rightly point out. In practice, there is little evidence of this. Despite the fact that the parties have each taken a number of measures to combat the COVID pandemic, the fight between GNA and LNA unfortunately continues. The lack of a successor to Special Representative Salamé is vengeful in this regard. In addition, the UN Security Council is currently too divided on the Libyan dossier in order to be able to take further action in the short term. The letter from the Maltese Home and Foreign Ministers on the migration situation in the Mediterranean and the demand for an EU humanitarian intervention in Libya, to which you refer, was also received by my services. An answer from the High Representative Borrell is not yet available, according to my information. On 22 April, a new video conference of EU Foreign Ministers, led by the High Representative, will be held to discuss the subject. As you know from previous interventions, the EU and its Member States should increasingly consider the wider framework of their multi-faceted relations with Turkey: security (Turkey is and remains a NATO ally), the fight against terrorism, migration, foreign policy issues such as Syria, Iraq, Russia and Libya, human rights and minority rights, the issue of the Foreign Terrorist Fighter Party, etc. The EU is trying to make progress in the various dossiers where possible in the light of the Union's strategic interests and with continued respect for our values. In addition, the forums within which these issues are dealt with differ. Libya is until further notice a United Nations dossier in which the EU and its Member States play a constructive role. The aim is to contribute to the establishment of a lasting ceasefire as a first step towards a political solution. This will initially have to be borne by local actors in the conflict and ultimately also by the Libyan people, regardless of the numerous foreign interventions in the conflict. It is not an EU-Turkey dossier as such, unlike, for example, the migration dossier under negotiation between Brussels and Ankara. What is the situation in Gaza, Mr De Vriendt? The USD 1 million you refer to in my reply of 7 April was released by the humanitarian fund for the occupied Palestinian territories that Belgium has been funding for many years. As a reminder, the Belgian contribution to this fund amounted to 13.3 million euros in the period from 2015 to 2019. Meanwhile, the fund decided to reprogramme USD 5, 16 million to address the health risks associated with COVID-19 in the occupied Palestinian territories. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u49	Mr. Secretary, may I interrupt you for a moment? I hear there's no more translation because of the bad sound. I think that in the future we must create this link in a different way. We row with the belts we have. Is there any other way you can proceed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u50	I'm trying another method. As you know, Belgium has consistently and repeatedly called for the lifting of the blockade and free humanitarian access to the Gaza Strip, in accordance with international humanitarian law. This position, in line with the position of the European Union, is also defended by Belgium in the United Nations Security Council. The United Nations and the European Union, including Belgium, are in talks with the various actors, including Israel, in order to facilitate access to Gaza for material and personnel in the context of this crisis. At the last meeting of the Security Council, Belgium expressed its concern about the consequences of COOVID-19 in the Gaza Strip. Belgium stressed that access to humanitarian aid remains crucial and that the measures taken to facilitate the entry of essential goods and equipment into Gaza and the access and movement of medical personnel should continue and that efforts should be stepped up in this respect. La Russia et la Biélorussie, Mrs Van Bossuyt, the COOVID-19 crisis has hardly any impact on the EU's policy vis-à-vis Russia and certainly not on the sanctions regime imposed against Moscow at European level. This sanction regime shall continue to apply without prejudice. The lifting of sanctions is linked to the implementation by Russia of the Minsk II agreements on the situation in eastern Ukraine. That said, punctual humanitarian assistance and the sale and supply of medical equipment and equipment to Russia in the context of the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, which also affects Russia, are and will continue to be possible. As regards the impact of the COVID 19 pandemic on the economy of a country such as Russia, we are at the beginning of the analysis, as is the impact of the pandemic on the economies of the EU Member States, the euro area and the EU as a whole. After all, a considerable number of parameters are not yet known. For example, when will the various countries get control of the pandemic, when will they put an end to the restrictive measures they have imposed and, within a short period of time, will they succeed in re-launching the engine of their economy? As far as Russia is concerned, the evolution of international oil and gas prices must of course also be included in the analysis. The OPEC agreement, which was reached on 12 April last year between the OPEC countries and a number of other oil producing countries (Russia, Kazakhstan, Mexico, Azerbaijan,...) and which provides for a total of 9.7 million barrels per day, seems to me to be a too timid step taking into account the current state of the world economy. To prove that oil prices and the roubles had only a very limited recovery following the publication of the measure. In any case, it is already certain that the Russian economy will be facing a serious downturn this year. The impact of the CODIV-19 pandemic on international relations, on the EU's foreign policy, on the global economy and on the economies of key players such as Russia will be increasingly closely addressed in the coming weeks and months at the level of European Foreign Ministers and at various other levels of European cooperation. So far, this hasn't happened. An initial exchange of views at European Foreign Ministers' level is only foreseen for tomorrow, Wednesday 22 April 2020. As regards the impact of the OPEC+ measure on the strategic energy supply of our country and the EU, and especially on our (in) dependence on Russian energy supplies, I suggest that you ask my colleague, the Minister for Energy. Mrs Van Bossuyt, I share your surprise at the approach of the Belarusian leadership of the COVD-19 pandemic in their country. Let me start with a factual overview: between 3 and 16 April, the number of confirmed cases of the corona virus in Belarus was multiplied more than 12 times, from 351 to 4,404, but the Belarusian authorities themselves are currently taking very few measures. President Lukashenko insists that the situation in his country is not catastrophic and denies that the disease is spreading exponentially. The president himself has blamed some patients for their own deaths, for their reckless behavior or overweight. Belarus has waived restrictive measures such as curfews, social distancing and closures of companies. The borders are still open; hotels, cafés, theatres and shopping centers are not closed; the football championship continues just like the traditional World War II parade on May 9th. The question of whether this should be addressed at European level is not currently being raised. Belarus is a sovereign state and, like all the countries of the world community, has its own national policy. A recent positive development is undoubtedly the visit made by experts from the World Health Organisation (WHO) to Belarus from 7 to 11 April. During this visit, they advised local authorities to strengthen social distancing by banning sporting events and other public events, organising distance learning for schools and universities, limiting non-essential transport and providing better quarantine facilities for infected citizens. Like its partners within the EU, Belgium has serious concerns about the President's authoritarian regime. Moreover, the EU has imposed a sanction regime against Belarusian leadership. At the same time, Belarus is part of the Eastern Partnership, and with this initiative, which includes both a multilateral and a bilateral part with each of these countries, the Union wishes to encourage the country to implement the necessary democratisation measures and socio-economic reforms. Nor can we close our eyes to the humanitarian crisis that is threatening the country. In this context, I would like to point out that, with the agreement of the Member States, the European institutions released, on 30 March last, a first envelope of EUR 140 million to meet the immediate needs of the six countries concerned. This envelope will later be complemented by an additional €700 million from existing European aid instruments to strengthen the health sector of these countries and to address the socio-economic impact of the COOVID 19 crisis. A total of EUR 60 million is foreseen for Belarus for the purchase of medical equipment for the modernisation of the health care sector, for better training of health professionals, for civil society initiatives in the health sector, etc. With regard to the question of opening up the external borders of Belgium, the Schengen area and the European Union as a whole, the competence lies primarily with the Member States responsible for internal affairs. This issue will, when the time comes, be taken up in a broader context by the National Security Council and will also be the subject of consultations within the European bodies. With my Minister of Defence cap, I am proud to defend National Defence initiatives to both help a number of our fellow countrymen stranded abroad and provide welcome humanitarian assistance. Mr Flahaut, the flight of repatriation of Belgian and other European nationals from the Democratic Republic of the Congo on 11 April, did indeed allow a large shipment of humanitarian equipment to the benefit of the local population. The sending of this humanitarian material responded to an official request for health and food assistance from the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. A Belgian Defence A330 Airbus had been chartered for this purpose, co-financed by the European Union Civil Protection Mechanism. Scientific and humanitarian partners have been mobilized and their equipment coordinated with Belgian Defence has been sent so that a total of more than 100 m3 of humanitarian equipment can successfully reach the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Previously, another repatriation flight of Belgian and European nationals, carried out on 4 April in Bujumbura, was also used to transport approximately 6 m3 of refrigerated medicines from MSF Belgium to that country. MSF was no longer able to deliver these medicines in good conditions of maintenance within 72 hours, which was achieved thanks to this flight. Currently, 52 rolls of cotton are planned to be sent to local health partners in Niger for Belgian government cooperation, in order to make masks locally for the protection of the local population from VOCID-19. These cotton rolls will be shipped as soon as a Defence flight is available to perform it. In principle, this is the flight of May 5th on Niamey. There is no other flight carrying humanitarian equipment with repatriation aircraft chartered by the currently planned Belgian government, however I can reassure you that my services will follow the requests for humanitarian aid from all our partners and governments with great attention in order to ensure international solidarity in the fight against the VOCID-19 virus. Finally, I will conclude with a number of remarks. Mrs Ponthier, I do not believe in conspiracy theories but in the rigorous analysis of the facts. An article by the Washington Post on the possible consequences of unsafe research on bats in a Chinese laboratory in Wuhan raises questions about the origin of the COVID-19 virus and attacks the Chinese approach in managing this sanitary crisis. However, at this stage, evidence is scarce and more time will be needed to carry out a proper evaluation. An objective, transparent and thorough analysis of this crisis will be required at the appropriate time. But at the moment our priority remains the control of the pandemic and international cooperation, including with China, with a view to making the necessary medical equipment available. As soon as this health crisis is overcome, exchanges of views and lessons will take place on the various aspects of the COOVID-19 crisis within the framework of the European Union and in the relevant UN bodies, in particular the World Health Organisation. Some aspects will require specific technical expertise. I can assure you that my administration continues to follow with great attention the evolution of the COVID-19 crisis. My services will also participate actively in future debates in the relevant international bodies. In this respect, cooperation with FPS Health will also be important. Can we build ventilators in the Audi plant in Forest, Mr. Boukili? The processes of licensing medical equipment, such as respirators, are the responsibility of the Public Health FPS and the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products, as well as the Economy FPS. Pursuant to Article 6 of the Royal Decree of 18 March 1999, the competent Minister may, upon duly justified request, authorise the placing on the market and the placing into service of individual devices the use of which is in the interest of health protection. This means that the AFMPS may propose exemptions to the Minister when complete records have been received. Currently, AFMPS has not received any applications for exemptions for this project. We cannot therefore grant any derogation as things stand at present. It is necessary to recall that these derogations are valid only in the national territory and do not have legal value for placing on the market in another territory. Each country concerned will have to grant the same type of derogation in order to be used in its territory. As for your second question, it is a matter of Belgian development cooperation. Development cooperation can provide essential medical equipment to developing countries upon request. Thus, Enabel, the Belgian Development Agency, will supply basic medical equipment to some of the partner countries of Belgian cooperation which have requested it and provided that this request is part of the cooperation programmes we have with them. In terms of solidarity and international aid for the fight against the VOCID-19, Belgian development cooperation has allocated significant sums to the fight against the pandemic by reallocating and redirecting several of the programmes of governmental, non-governmental, multilateral and humanitarian cooperation. In the context of day-to-day business, my administration is working on the basis of existing financial envelopes, reallocating budgets to health and pandemic response activities. Mrs Samyn, three specific points, it is true that if a tourist could not travel because of the corona measures he or she will have to apply for his or her visa again. The costs will have to be paid again. The subject of your third question is not the responsibility of my department but of the Department of Asylum and Migration. Anyway, Madame la président, my department contributes to coordination and to European solidarity by allowing nationals of the European Union to return to their country of residence through repatriation flights lodged by Foreign Affairs. I have also personally advocated the inclusion by our country of foreign patients from regions of the European Union most affected by COVID-19. For the rest of the patients, please refer to my colleague responsible for public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u51	Mr Minister, visas are still one of the few means for border barriers. There is no doubt that strict monitoring is needed to ensure that those who receive a tourist visa do meet the conditions required. Too many so-called tourists remain illegal in our country after their visa expires. Because of the exceptional situation, and only because of the exceptional situation, I would like to ask for fairness for tourists who could not travel to our country, who have followed the procedure neatly and have had to pay for it. They should be able to renew visas free of charge at the embassy on the spot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u52	Minister, in connection with oral mask diplomacy, a Flemish expression is that a given horse is not looked in the mouth. Emergency breaks the law. Solidarity is indeed crucial. Now is not the time to fight with political systems. We must avoid that. You made that very clear. The crisis was unforeseen. It would be useful to consider in the future to what extent Belgium is dependent on other major partners in key sectors, such as health, protective equipment and medicines. That really makes us very dependent and a playball in international politics. This is difficult to accept for our people when it comes to essential sectors, such as health. We shall certainly have to hold a debate on this matter in post-corona. In relation to World Health Organisation, I naturally support the fact that Belgium continues to support. A captain doesn't leave the ship in a storm, and that's what we're in right now. We have no alternative to the World Health Organisation today. However, it is necessary to examine the transparency, objectivity and scientificity of the organisation in order to improve it. It is not good that one great powerful partner, such as China, can make his mark on the World Health Organisation. We must carry out an evaluation of this. Finally, I am pleased that you yourself have advocated the inclusion of patients from the Member States of the European Union. That would have been an important gesture. It didn't happen. It depends on individual hospitals. Minister De Block also gave me an answer in that direction. Indeed, it calls for coordinated action from the government. The ball is being played to one another here, and I find it regrettable that we have not included French, Italian or Spanish patients. I would also like to thank you for your very comprehensive answer on Syria and Yemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u53	Madam President, I will be very brief so that we can move on to the next debate. As far as Trump is concerned, it is a good thing to condemn his actions against multilateralism. But it would be even better to provide compensation. There is a real urgency in this respect to find a European solution quickly, to compensate for the loss that the WHO should face. This is obviously not the time for WHO to be withdrawn a fifth of its budget. As for Iran, there is also an urgent need to press the Iranian government for respect for human rights, particularly in prisons. An independent investigation into this matter would be welcome. As for Trump, Human Rights Watch was already sounding the alarm several months ago, long before the VOCID-19 crisis broke out. The higher importance of the right of access to health care for the Iranian people must now be reaffirmed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u54	Madam Chair, I would like to thank the Minister for his very comprehensive answers. With regard to the situation in Iran and the effectiveness of the INSTEX mechanism, while the architecture clearly exists, the extraterritorial dimension of the US sanctions continues to discourage many partners from responding to the health emergency in Iran. We must redouble our efforts to overcome these reluctances. Indeed, the health situation there is dramatic, with the risk of contagion, given the porosity of the borders in the region. The health situation in Iran therefore affects us all. I hope that the INSTEX mechanism can be the tool that will also save the nuclear agreement, which we must not lose sight of. We have already discussed it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am certainly not a supporter of conspiracy theories, but of a proper investigation in this matter. I hope that this will be brought to the fore by the competent international bodies. There are certainly a number of elements that raise questions and suggest that reality is a little more complex than the Chinese government would like to suggest. These elements deserve a serious warning of the impact, if this theory can be proven. There are even professors who warn that a new cold war would be inevitable. I do not know if it should come to this, but this could lead to a breach of confidence between China and the rest of the world. In any case, this could affect other sectors such as health care, the world economy, export treaties and so on. I look forward to your invitation to carry out objective and transparent monitoring at a later date through an exchange of views. That is indeed recommended.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u56	First of all, thank you to the Minister for his reply. Unfortunately, it wasn't all clear. I will refer to the written report in order to be able to read the more detailed answers to my questions. What I do not think I have heard is how initiatives are being taken to counter disinformation on different platforms. What will Belgium do? I shall read the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u57	I have a brief supplementary question to the Minister to which I would like an answer, but not necessarily now. The WHO has the best international overview of this systemic pandemic. However, they only have an advisory role. They themselves suggest that the Member States of the WHO would consider giving the organisation a more compelling role and even having them issue directives. For example, at the start of a pandemic, a much more decisive response can be made worldwide. Would Belgium be willing to support this? I will also be submitting this question by official means, so I do not need to have an answer right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answer. You stress multilateralism, which is indeed crucial in the fight against a global pandemic. In this regard, the World Health Organization is obviously a key and essential instrument not only in the fight against VOCID-19, but for other health problems around the world. Nevertheless, you insist on transparency. It seems to me crucial that there is a strict assessment after the crisis because when Australia asks for a formal investigation, the question is whether the WHO has the means to carry out such work within it or, on the contrary, whether an independent body should not carry out it. I remember, as I said in plenary, an inspection report from a Canadian assistant to the WHO Director who, after inspection in China in Wuhan, had been satisfied with the answers given to him with "all the sincerity desired," he said. This shows some lightness or perhaps naivety in the head of some of the World Health Organization's collaborators. On the other hand, there is much information that casts doubt on the independence of the Ethiopian President of WHO. I therefore believe that an independent evaluation will be necessary. Who says independent says done with the means of independence and not with the means of the World Health Organization.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u59	Minister, I would just like to confirm that it is a very good thing that Belgium has immediately promised its faith in the World Health Organisation, not blindly and slavishly, as some say now. At the same time, we have announced that it is particularly important for us to have a very thorough examination and a review of the functioning of the World Health Organization, with the emphasis on subsequent investigations. As you said, Minister, the World Health Organisation is the only global health organisation. Especially with what we are experiencing now, it is clear how important it is for the WHO to be able to work efficiently and thoroughly. I would therefore like to stress once again, as Mr De Maegd also says, that the investigation will have to be done very thoroughly and very well, not to seek scapegoats, but to ensure that the World Health Organisation can continue to work in the best possible way. The same goes for the rather serious indications that China has a great responsibility in this pandemic. We now call it a conspiracy theory, because the evidence is too scarce. It will be a difficult investigation anyway, but we all benefit from doing it very thoroughly and properly. I'm gonna hold my heart to what's gonna happen when there's evidence there. I fear far-reaching consequences, but let us not anticipate them. However, these investigations are absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u60	Thank you, Mrs Liekens. We can conclude the debate here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u61	Mr President, can we still enter into the third debate on repatriation? I see you nodding, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u62	Mr Minister, I have put questions about the repatriation of Belgians with dual nationality. It is also your credit that there is a bilateral agreement with Morocco on an exception to the rule that Belgians with a Moroccan identity should not leave the country. This allows Belgians of Moroccan nationality to leave Morocco on humanitarian and social grounds, which have already been defined, such as serious medical conditions, separation of the family due to a specific event or the risk of long-term absence leading to job loss or bankruptcy. Now, together with Morocco, a list of passengers who can return to Belgium must be drawn up. Has that list been drawn up yet? Will the first repatriation flights be completed? How will the list be drawn up? Are there any other Belgians with dual nationality in prison, including Burundi? Has there already been an agreement with the Burundian government on their repatriation? What is the overall numerator of the number of Belgians who are still waiting for repatriation abroad today? What repatriations are planned in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u63	Was there any mention of this? If not, why not? Why are future planned commercial flights, which are now offered to stranded passengers, not included in the whole of repatriation flights, provided that all safety and health measures are taken into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u64	Madam President, Minister, we welcomed the agreement that had been reached with the Moroccan authorities on the principle of repatriation on a humanitarian basis of the binationals stranded there who wished to return to Belgium. Of course, we welcome all the efforts that you and your administration have made to achieve this result. Last Monday, you said you received 1,500 requests – a figure that the press has updated. Stakeholders will be required to complete questionnaires to objectify their situation. According to my sources, the final list that our country will draw up is about to be submitted to the Moroccan authorities. Similarly, I was pleased to read that the position of the Burundian Government had also evolved and that the binationals could soon leave Burundi under certain conditions. Minister, what about the concrete organization of repatriation? What is the timing envisaged for both Morocco and Burundi? Moreover, how does the evolution of the figures come about? I confess I didn't understand very well what the press this morning gathered. Could you please take stock of that? In addition, some binationals have not yet received a response. Is the process ongoing or can we consider that all applications have been registered?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u65	Madam President, Minister, I would also like to welcome the organization of special repatriation flights, humanitarian and social, of the binationals blocked in Morocco. In my view, this was an urgent step, since the Moroccan government had already been opening the door to these repatriations for several weeks. However, I would like to join my colleague Malik Ben Achour. In fact, in a few weeks, we have grown from 500 requests for Belgians blocked in Morocco, including 410 binationals – I remember the SPF statement on this – to more than 5,000 requests. I therefore do not understand very well how the figures could be multiplied by ten in a few days, a few weeks. Clarification of the figures would therefore be useful. On the other hand, I was able to understand that the people concerned, the Belgians blocked in Morocco, were very worried about the signing of debt recognitions. It would be important to be able to provide clear and precise information on the costs of such repatriations, which were expected by those concerned. I also wonder about the legal residents in Belgium who have to work in our country and who can also face particularly delicate and difficult situations in Morocco. This is what I do to those who cannot be repatriated. Indeed, there are exceptional repatriations for humanitarian and social cases. But what is planned to help those who cannot be repatriated? I am thinking in particular of a very specific case. Ali Aarrass was released on 2 April, after 12 years in prison in particularly deplorable conditions, as torture is a matter of concern in Moroccan prisons. I therefore wonder what measures have already been taken by the SPF Foreign Affairs or by the embassy on the spot to bring Ali Aarrass back safely to Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u66	Madam President, Minister, I do believe that we must insist on the progress that has been made and remember how far we left a few months or a few weeks ago, in order to conclude today by means of discussions, very often discreet negotiations, and on a basis which was essentially the humanitarian character of this second wave of repatriations. I believe that we must also be careful not to hit certain sensitivities of partner countries. We must first talk about citizens who, for various reasons, have a life in Belgium, and who must be able to be repatriated in good conditions. I believe that it is on this that the minister must continue to rely on the next steps, focusing on diplomacy of discretion in order to achieve concrete results.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u67	Madam President, Minister, on behalf of the Reform Movement, I am pleased to see this issue evolve well thanks to your involvement and proactive action. I remember that in the last committee, some colleagues, Ecolo, Défi, in particular Mrs Rohonyi or Mr. Ben Achour for the PS, spoke of a sense of abandonment that one could of course hear. At that time, I insisted that it was a perception but that there was no abandonment in the head of government, since, Minister, you are working on a full regime to try to solve this problem. I was extremely surprised to see, especially on Twitter, Mrs Rohonyi liked by the colleagues whose names I mentioned, while she claimed that I was populism. I have, of course, never said in this committee that caring for the binationals was about populism. I want to make that clear because it is deeply shameful. I just said that to say that we are not doing anything, while you are working, Minister, that is indeed populism. I want to correct this because I was perfectly shocked by this communication on social networks. Turning to the facts, I would like to point out that your full involvement has always been in this case and, whether binational or not, Belgians have the right to this aid that you have provided them and that you continue to provide them. But it must also be admitted that it was the Moroccan government that made this differentiation by considering binationals as Moroccans, when they were on Moroccan territory. Today, Minister, I am making real progress in your negotiations with the Moroccan government. As some colleagues have said, the application explodes with more than 6000 emails received, 4450 applications including 3400 binationals. Only 1700, to the best of my knowledge, provided evidence. I insist, minister, that these repatriations be made in a balanced manner. Such repatriations must, of course, be justified in order to be made. Otherwise, this system cannot be sustainable in the long term. Minister, do you have any news from the Moroccan government about the lists you have drawn up to carry out these repatriations? When do you think you can proceed with these repatriations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u68	Madam President, Minister, first of all, I would like to apologize for my absence from the previous debate because I had to speak in another debate in the Committee on Justice. That's why I'm gone. I also wanted to welcome the progress that has been made since our last committee. The situation is changing. On the other hand, today's figures are clearly different from those we had two weeks ago. I therefore agree with my colleagues on the need for clarification at this level. I would also particularly like to draw your attention to the situation of Ali Aarrass who was imprisoned in Morocco for 12 years. He was released on 2 April and was blocked on Moroccan territory. He's one of those binationals who need to be repatriated. Ali Aarrass has completed his request for proper repatriation and is fully in the condition to be on the list necessary for the organization of a humanitarian evacuation, being always separated from his family; this is an emergency case. After serving his sentence, Ali Aarrass finds himself unable to turn the page and resume a normal life alongside his own. We cannot leave one of our fellow citizens in this dramatic situation without acting. In addition, it is now in a general environment that is not at all secure. Minister, what is your plan to repatriate the hundreds or even thousands of binationals stranded in Morocco? Are you going to make a humanitarian gesture and make sure Ali Aarrass is on the list of binationals that Belgium is going to repatriate? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u69	I'm going back to Mrs. Jadin, who also has a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u70	Madam President, I would like to put my question very briefly because a lot has already been said. Minister, I would also like to join my colleagues in congratulating you on the progress made in the repatriation of binationals from Burundi and Morocco. I know that Belgian diplomacy does not spare its efforts in relation to requests and sometimes very difficult humanitarian situations, but also because of the difficulties of the flights still available for these Belgian repatriations abroad. I know that Foreign Affairs is working hard with great success. Minister, what is the cost of this type of operation? If I can get the answer in writing, it also suits me. Could you provide us with information on the totality of ongoing repatriation requests related to health reasons? This is of interest to us, as is the number of new applications for repatriation of Moroccan binationals, which also surprised me, I admit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u71	Minister, I have four specific questions on the situation of repatriation. I refer to the questions I have tabled with the title 'Repatriation of the Belgians'. I'll make them very brief. Firstly, many problems are reported with large travel organisations because they would not take responsibility. What's your information on that right now? In what way do you address the sector? After all, this causes a lot of misery. Secondly, despite the good efforts made by the other speakers, a number of Belgians who need medicine cannot be repatriated in the short term. Is that an issue that you are watching for yourself, Minister? In what way is it actually ensured that those concerned would still receive their necessary medicines? Thirdly, I have a question specifically about workingholiday young people in Australia and New Zealand. For them, return flights are very difficult to organise. Is there an idea within which the workingholiday young people in Australia and New Zealand can be brought back? Finally, many speakers have already referred and asked for an update on the situation of the Belgians with dual nationality in Morocco.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u72	Madam President, to date, more than 30 return aid flights have already been chartered, mainly on charter flights but also six military flights. Thus, 4,751 Belgians have been able to return home from 17 different countries (Spain, the Canary Islands, Morocco, Egypt, Tunisia, Algeria, DR Congo, Senegal, Mali, Gambia, South Africa, Niger, Rwanda, Burundi, Peru, the Dominican Republic and Colombia). All countries for which Foreign Affairs had chartered a flight cooperated. According to an estimate from our embassies abroad, about 4,000 Belgians and right holders are still stranded. The largest group of entitled Belgians is located in Morocco, Australia and New Zealand, Algeria and Spain. The figures are not static given, given the daily departure of European flights with Belgians on board. Some Belgians also wish to extend their stay pending a relaxation of the measures. Flights to Morocco, Algeria, Ecuador and Peru, Tenerife, Cameroon and Ghana will be organised in the coming days. Mrs Van Hoof, Mr Crombez and Mr Ben Achour, every day there is a coordination meeting with the EU on repatriation flights. The issue of dual nationality was also discussed. Meanwhile, and I will come back later for the particular case of Morocco, Burundi has reviewed its decision and an agreement has been reached with Morocco to make possible humanitarian repatriation for compelling medical and social reasons. We have repatriated nearly 1,100 Belgian nationals from Morocco, about 40% of whom are dual nationals. The statistics of Belgians with another nationality blocked abroad are unknown to our services. As far as Burundi is concerned, several of the binationals have been able to return to Belgium on European flights since the decision to refuse them was withdrawn by the Burundian authorities on 10 April. If there are still commercial flights, if there are sufficient EU repatriation flights in place and if the remaining group of Belgians is too small to justify a Belgian flight, then Foreign Affairs itself will not make a flight. In these cases, our embassies on the ground help to give Belgians place on EU flights. This system already resulted in the return of more than 1,600 Belgians. The situation of health and safety on the ground can also play a role in the decision to organise a flight. To answer Mr Crombez's question concerning Australia and New Zealand, I can tell you that there are still commercial options for Australia and that there are also several EU flights. Mrs Samyn, I have no knowledge of any specific problems with Belgians in countries that are calling for departure. In these cases, there are often European repatriation flights or consular assistance if necessary. SN Brussels Airlines was engaged in several repatriation flights, even before 7 April. Commercial flights are not organised by the Foreign Office and cannot, as such, be classified as repatriation flights. However, more than 200 Belgians returned via flights facilitated by Belgians. These are flights in which the Foreign Office negotiated with the private company to allow a flight. Mr Crombez, you also asked a question about the supply of medicines. The courier services still provide medicines in most cities. Where this is no longer the case, there is the option of sending medicines through the diplomatic suite. The Belgian embassies abroad manage these requests. Indeed, it is true that certain travel organisations abandoned their customers. The processing of these files is a matter for the FPS Economy, as these are contracts between passengers and travel organisation that may not have been complied with. Mrs Jadin, you asked me about the cost of flights already organized to date. I will send you the answer in writing. I conclude by taking stock of the situation of Belgians currently in Morocco. A press release today was not in line with reality. I will come back very clearly to the situation. There are 4,450 people who have applied for repatriation to Belgium. Why is such a difference between the 500 applications announced a few weeks ago and that figure today? Simply because these 500 people had spontaneously shown up at our embassy and when we got a negotiating agreement with the Moroccan authorities and when we officially launched the call, emails of requests arrived at us. Of the 4,450 applicants, there are 3,440 Belgians. I therefore do not distinguish between Belgo-Moroccoans and Belgians. Of the 3,440 Belgians who have actually applied, only about 1,700 have attached a certificate to their application. Contrary to what Le Soir said today, at this stage it is not yet possible to say whether they meet the criteria. We're analyzing the files. It is up to our services to verify the certificates. After that, the files will be forwarded to the Moroccan authorities, who will have the last word. I would point out that it was a negotiation between the Moroccan authorities and Belgium, two criteria having been adopted: criteria based on humanitarian reasons or criteria based on social reasons. To attest to the reality of these humanitarian or social reasons, it was normal to request a certificate to be attached to the application. Once these lists are reverified and transmitted, we will be, as of today, within two days for the Moroccan authorities to have these lists. You can imagine it's a big analysis job. For some 4,450 applications, it is necessary to check nationality, certificates, etc. Our remote service in Brussels has been strengthened because our Belgian embassy in Morocco has obviously been terribly requested by these requests. I therefore believe that by Thursday these requests will be forwarded to the Moroccan authorities and it will be up to them to validate all or part of the list. I want to be very clear and precise on this point. Several of you, and I am surprised, have asked me about Mr. Aarrass. He is one of the potential applicants, like others. I will not rule on his particular case. The procedure is the same for everyone, no more or less. I think you are now aware of the situation regarding our repatriation of our Belgians currently blocked in Morocco. I would point out that the general principle which has prevailed in our proceedings is to facilitate the return of our citizens who are temporarily staying abroad for reasons of holidays, professional reasons or studies. The humanitarian criterion is taken into account, regardless of the country, for sick persons who cannot be treated locally. So I don't understand why we're systematically focusing on a particular case. We have done the same for all countries, but it is true that the character of our binationals has posed a 'problem' for Burundi and Morocco. In no way have we abandoned our Belgians, regardless of the situation in which they were, given the decisions of the authorities of the territories in which they were located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u73	Minister, you and your services have made considerable efforts to repatriate Belgians. There's still a lot going on. I understand that 4,000 Belgians still have to be repatriated. I hope they can be repatriated in the next few weeks. In any case, I would like to thank you for your efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u74	Minister, I cannot get rid of the impression that more is being done in the case of repatriations for double-national nationals. In the previous topical debate at the beginning of April, you stated that 7 out of 27 flights with stranded compatriots were organised from Morocco. It now appears that a number of flights are being organised from Morocco under certain conditions. What will happen to the other stranded travellers? People living in stranded countries with a visa date are still waiting to see whether or not they can be repatriated. They see their German and Dutch companions leaving home, but for them there is no flight planned. You are saying that if the group is too small to provide for repatriation, we are looking at the neighbouring countries that are repatriating their compatriots, but let us be honest, they must take account of all Europeans and can therefore only take a small percentage of Belgians on their flights. In order to attract the attention of Foreign Affairs, it seems that the media must be involved in order to be repatriated in the end. I refer to the flights that leave today and next week in the Canary Islands. In another specific case, after having been sent from the cabinet to the wall for five weeks, stranded travellers themselves had to ensure repatriation from the south of Spain. That was on its own, then, without the help of the State Department. They have found a solution and are now safe at home, but it is certainly understandable that these compatriots are displeased. I hope that a solution will be found quickly for everyone, quickly and efficiently and not by means of all kinds of detours.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u75	I thank the Minister for these clarifications. To be sure to understand well, knowing that only 1,700 applications for repatriation were submitted with a certificate, out of 3,440 Belgians and Belgo-Moroccoans. It must therefore be considered that about 1,700 people have returned an application without certification and are therefore already "eliminated" from the possibility of repatriation. Should we understand it like that? This is my first request for clarification. The second is next. I understand that in two days' time, the final list will be forwarded to the Moroccan authorities, who will have to validate it. I assume that the flight dates will depend on the time taken by the Moroccan authorities to validate this list. Here are my two requests for clarification. I would like to remove a misunderstanding with Mr Michel De Maegd. Let's be clear! We have never said that no effort is being made, on the contrary. Personally, I commend the efforts of the Minister and his services on the repatriation issue. I have done so publicly in committee and elsewhere. But I said that it was clear that the Consular Code as it was "labelled" provided de facto a sense of abandonment. I had explained that one could not tell someone who was suffering that he had no right to be hurt. That's what Mr. De Maegd didn't want to hear it. That is why, together with Mr Samuel Cogolati, we have tabled a proposal to amend the Code. I also wonder about the meaning of his call for weighting. What would be the point of leaving people there? In any event, I am convinced that we are all working towards the same goal, with the minister in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u76	Mr Ben Achour asked two questions. As I said, of 3 400 Belgian applications, 1 700 were accompanied by a certificate. Those that are not are unfortunately not analysed by the Moroccan authority. That's the first precision. The requirement was to have a certificate attesting to the veracity of the request, with a humanitarian or social character. Secondly, when the list is transmitted – I repeat, I hope Thursday – the government will no longer be in control of the deadline for analysis by the Moroccan authority. You can imagine that we have argued for this analysis to take place as quickly as possible, but we ourselves are very aware of the time it takes, for we ourselves had to analyse these lists upstream. I hope I've given you the two clarifications you wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u77	Madam President, Minister, thank you, and in particular the FPS Foreign Affairs officers who have been on the bridge almost 24 hours a day for several weeks now in an attempt to help all Belgians stranded abroad. Really, a very sincere thank you from my group. Now, it is true that the figure is particularly impressive. We were talking about 500 Belgians blocked in Morocco a few weeks ago. Now, several thousand. It is true that several thousand would already be de facto "eliminated", if I may say so, from the emergency repatriation procedure that is currently under way. Mr Minister, I did not really hear you about the steps that were to be taken, in a proactive way, by your services to help those Belgians who unfortunately remain stuck in Morocco. I think it's important not to forget them. Mr De Maegd, I too would really like to remove any misunderstandings about the treatment of binationals. I have once again, at this very moment, thanked the services for their considerable work. Now, I think it is important that we do not ignore, in this Assembly, in this committee in particular, that our Consular Code was amended in 2018 and that Article 79 of the Consular Code immediately removes the right to consular assistance to binationals. Yes, it is discrimination. The League of Human Rights has also brought an appeal to the Constitutional Court to annul article 79. This article 79 generates a feeling of injustice. It's normal, it's legitimate, and I understand it perfectly. It is therefore in this sense that I have expressed myself. That is why, together with my colleagues Malik Ben Achour and Sophie Rohonyi, we have tabled a proposal for an amendment in order to correct this discrimination. Again, as the SPF Foreign Affairs does, to be able to help all Belgians.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u78	To date, 1,100 Belgians have been repatriated from Morocco, 40 per cent of whom are binationals. Other humanitarian or social repatriations will therefore be carried out: 4,450 applications submitted and, unfortunately, only 1,700 of them with proof as provided for in the rule. It is therefore up to the Moroccan authorities to decide on this list. I think these figures are a strong signal to the Belgian-Moroccan community. Yes, we care about the Belgo-Moroccoans or Belgians blocked in Morocco. And these are more than words. Not only do we care, but we do. In my view, what is short, sometimes false communications or insinuations which, for me, were close to political recovery and even communalism. My party prefers positive action for all Belgians, whatever they are. Finally, to reply to Mr Cogolati, Mrs Rohonyi, who is not surprised here and Mr. Ben Achour, I simply invite them to be careful when it comes to liking false publications on social networks. I quote: "According to Michel De Maegd, worrying about the binationals blocked in Morocco is populism." I never said that! I solemnly say it. I was just saying that it would be populism or a political recovery to make believe that the government does not care about the binationals blocked in Morocco. That's what I was saying, of course!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u79	Madam President, we are not going to enter into a two- or three-way discussion with Mr. From Maegd that I also like. Only it revives a polemic that we wanted to put out right away.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u80	That's not true! You fed her on social media, Mr. Ben Achour!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u81	I didn't feed anything, Mr. De Maegd!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u82	Go to your Facebook profile!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u83	The Minister of Foreign Affairs has done everything he needs to resolve the situation of binationals, but, as Mr. Cogolati pointed out, there is a problem in the Consular Code in section 79 that generates discrimination and this sense of legitimate abandonment. The minister can't help it. It is a fact that the Belgian consulate and embassy in Morocco had to respond to binationals asking them that they could not do anything for them precisely because of the Consular Code. This has created a problem in relation to which the minister cannot at the moment because he works within the established legal framework. It's a fact!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u84	Minister, thank you for your answers and the details that shed some light on the issue. I would like to add two clarifications. As far as Ali Aarrass is concerned, the question was asked because this is a particular case as a result of what he endured for 12 years in Morocco, and also because Belgium – you were not yet in office, so you are not responsible for it – has been convicted of non-consular assistance. That is why I am asking the question specifically about Ali Aarrass. I also welcome your good will and the work that has been done. We see that there is a change in the situation. I believe that our primary objective must be efficiency in advancing the situation and repatriating our stranded citizens to Morocco and elsewhere. Nevertheless, I must point out something that will have to be addressed at the end of the current crisis. Again, you're not the first person responsible. Our Consular Code is discriminatory, it gives a specific status to binationals. In this context, we have drafted a bill to amend article 79 and to respond to this discrimination denounced by the League of Human Rights. A second element is the following. I have no doubt of your word, Mr Minister, you may not make a difference between Belgians of dual nationality and others, but because of this Consular Code, some officials, particularly in Morocco, have unfortunately discriminated against binationals. I think that this problem needs to be addressed after the crisis. We have testimonies and recordings. There is clear discrimination against binationals. It is neither black nor white, but this discrimination must be lifted so that some officials can no longer hide behind this element in order to discriminate against binational citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u85	Mr Crombez, would you like to replicate? [[No.]] I believe that I can conclude the debate. I thank everyone for their participation. The Minister is still asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u86	Thank you for the debate, Madam President. I have a proposal to make to the members of the committee. Of course, it is up to you to do what you want with it. I have many questions that are two, three or four months old, that we have not been able to deal with as a result of the events and the crisis. Would it be possible next week to empty these questions? You have to put yourself in place of my services. They must be updated every time. It's a great job and it doesn't bring anything. It takes everyone a lot of time. Could we not devote time to these questions? I'd make myself available for as long as it takes. We would avoid topical debates, or not, but we would ensure that we had time for all these pending issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u87	That's a good proposal. We have been suggested that a session on this subject should be scheduled for Tuesday at 10 a.m. A topical debate is linked to at least three questions, often grouped together. However, if there are only three questions, I will not lead to a topical debate, on which the President decides. From five it is a topical debate anyway. Of course, that can be separate from corona. That is simply the Rules of Procedure. I propose to clear that list by 10:00 on Tuesday and to make progress in that area. Are there any comments? I see everyone nodding.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u88	Madam Chair, the suggestion is excellent. That is what we did in the Committee on Climate and Energy last week: we asked questions for six and a half hours (from 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m.). So we need time, but once it's done, it's done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u89	We can do that efficiently.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u90	I have an additional suggestion. It may also be said that the Minister always prepares the committees and debates well and gives concrete answers there. If there is a very long list of questions, would it not be possible for the services to send Members an e-mail asking whether all these questions should be dealt with orally or whether a few could also be translated into written questions? I note that this takes up a lot of time in committees. This has to be prepared. In response to the Minister's question, I suggest that we do a triage.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u91	That's a good suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u92	Mr Crombez, we think exactly the same. I also believe that we can alleviate the work of the Minister and his services. In order to obtain the answers in writing, we will certainly do so. If Parliament's services can give us the list, where we can then say what questions we turn into written questions and which we keep as an oral question, then it will certainly alleviate the work for our committee and for the minister's services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u93	Madam President, I agree. I suggest that you turn my questions into written questions in order to lighten the agenda for next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic150x.u94	Questions Nos. 55003938C, 55004524C and 55004527C of Mr.Nabil Boukili are transformed into written questions. The updated list will be sent to you, with a deadline for conversion into written questions. Thank you for your constructive cooperation in this area. Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answers. I know other committees where less detailed answers are given by the ministers. I would therefore like to join my colleagues in congratulating them on this. All that's left is the sound. A suggestion was already made for a group purchase of headsets. They would be useful to improve the debates. There's still work to be done on that.
