ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u1	Good morning, Minister, thank you for being here. Perhaps I do not need to remind you of the speaking time laid down in the Rules of Procedure, which we shall try to apply. The questioner is given two and a half minutes to ask the question. The government also gets two and a half minutes for the answer. Then there is another possibility of a reply of one minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u2	Mr.President, Minister, in 2014, nearly 40,000 complaints of partner violence were filed with the police. And more than 16,000 cases of rape were recorded by the latter between 2010 and 2014, or about 3,000 per year. These figures are cold in the back because they remain high and represent only the visible face of the iceberg. The black figure, i.e. unrecorded acts of violence, remains particularly high. Of course, the police play a crucial role in the fight against such violence. The Istanbul Convention also sets out its role in the immediate response, prevention and protection, risk management and enforcement of prohibition, injunction or protection orders and measures issued by the Public Prosecutor's Office. However, many dysfunctions are regularly highlighted in the context of the reception and monitoring by the police of women victims of violence. Thus, an investigation by the Women's Life Association denounces the reception received by women victims of domestic violence who file complaints in a police station. Through several testimonies, the association highlights the fact that, too often, the police refuse to register complaints and unfortunately do not always have sufficient understanding and training of what violence against women is. Minister, this is not the first time this question has been asked in this committee, but I would like to take stock with you of the situation. So, how do you explain that still today police officers can refuse to register a complaint for acts of violence? How do you intend to improve the training of police officers in the management of domestic violence? Are you aware of the percentage of police officers who have received specific training on such violence? Would it not be essential to include this type of training in the initial curriculum of police officers? Since the "zero tolerance" circular is not really binding, what other measures could be taken to ensure the overall reception of victims of violence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that I obviously condemn all forms of domestic violence. Combating violence against women, domestic violence and all forms of discrimination are part of the general tasks of the police forces. Statements concerning violence must, of course, be registered in accordance with articles 15 and 40 of the Law on the Protection of Women and article 29 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Failure to respond to a complaint may, where appropriate, be the subject of appropriate measures. Victims can, of course, always talk to the police department or outside. In addition, cluster 8 "Accommodation and police assistance to victims" of the basic training of police inspectors addresses the issue, such as several ongoing trainings on domestic violence, domestic violence and honour-related violence. These trainings are provided at the National Police Academy or in approved schools and are accessible to staff members of local police areas. For example, a number of specific trainings have been put in place to ensure that police officers are better prepared to respond adequately to the needs of women victims of violence. If one takes into account only the trainings that deal specifically with this problem, there are 559 participants for 2017 and 970 for 2018. Since 2006, 10,795 staff members have been trained on this sensitive issue, an average of 771 trained per year. That said, I plead that this issue should receive even more attention, but not only, through training. This is why the next Federal Training Plan 2020-2023 will take it up as a priority. This plan, I would remind you, is intended to communicate to all police schools the subjects and areas that need to be given priority attention in the development of their continuing training offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased to hear that the training of police officers, in any case in this regard, will be part of the next federal training plan. We know that for women – since they are often women who are referred to as victims of violence – it is extremely difficult to push the door of a police station and that if they succeed and the reception is not at the meeting, which is fortunately not always the case, it is an additional suffering for them. The police station must remain a "welfare" place where listening must be paramount. We will remain attentive to this aspect and to the training of police officers in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u5	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Matheï's 55002115C has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u6	Mr President, Minister, the 2016-2019 National Security Plan is published every four years by the Ministers of Security and Interior and Justice. This document is the guiding thread of police operation. The 2016-2019 PNS entitled "Going together to the essentials" provided for ten priority security phenomena to which the police and all other relevant bodies had to pay particular attention for four years. In this context, the police areas draw up zonal security plans detailing the priorities and points of attention. While the PNS 2020-2024 has not yet been published, it appears that many police areas have already established their zonal security plans. It turns out that domestic violence and sexual violence were among the ten priorities of the PNS 2016-2019. However, some police areas now appear to have removed them from their local security plans. Minister, how many police areas do they currently include domestic violence and sexual violence in their zonal security plan? How do you make sure they are included? The PNS 2016-2019 is due to expire. What will then be the priorities after 2019 in view of current affairs? What exactly will be the fight against domestic violence and sexual violence? Do you confirm that some police areas have already drafted their zonal security plans? Do you confirm that some of them have removed violence against women and sexual violence from the priorities of their zonal security plan, knowing that local police remain a support point for victims of violence? If so, can they be reinstated as a priority once the SNP 2020-2024 is implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u7	Ms.Zanchetta, for the previous cycle extended until 31 December 2019, my administration has identified 72 areas that have specifically recorded the phenomena of domestic violence and 46 areas that have done the same for cases of sexual violence against majors. These two figures do not add up. It should be read as an occurrence. With regard to the National Security Plan, my colleague in charge of Justice and I have decided to extend it for at least one year. In doing so, priorities remain the same throughout this year. Therefore, combating domestic and sexual violence remains a national priority. Police zones are required to provide me with their security plans. In this way, my administration can raise the lines of work and priorities announced by the various zonal safety councils. I confirm that the police areas have drafted their security plan 2020-2025, as provided for in Articles 35 to 37bis of the Act of 7 December 1998. I am not yet in a position to confirm or reverse your comments regarding the possible withdrawal of the national priority by the police areas from their zonal plan. My administration is analysing the zonal plans that have been transmitted to it. It may be added that victim assistance is the responsibility of the local police. This task is therefore completed without the need for further emphasis. To our knowledge, there is no disinvestment in this area. The issue of domestic violence is also monitored by a working group led by the Standing Committee on Local Police. This shows you that the subject is taken seriously by the police and, in particular, the local police.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u8	Minister, I understand that this issue must be taken seriously in terms of the statistics we receive and consult regularly. It is therefore clear that it must remain a priority, both nationally and locally.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u9	Mrs Soors is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u10	Minister, as you know, the Antwerp police developed a new heavily armed emergency response team. The trade unions, however, reacted critically. The uniform would not have been approved and the power surge weapon would not be covered by the permitted framework. Moreover, the machine gun available to the team would be extremely dangerous to use in an urban environment. The officers of the team are also not dressed in the trusted police uniform, which would not be legal. Is it true that this uniform doesn't meet the legal requirements? What do you think is the impact of this uniform on the proximity, familiarity and accountability of the police? The unit is equipped with a special power surge weapon while the use of these weapons is still in the test phase. Is the legal framework for the use of these weapons sufficient? Can a well-founded assessment already be made of the use of such a weapon in order to frame and make it provable? Is the staff sufficiently aware of the guidelines for the use of such a weapon? Such special teams equipped with heavy weapons normally do not fall within the competence of local police. The mayor of Antwerp already cut the ties with the competent special units. Do you think the mayor's gonna decide to install such a team himself? Does this kind of unit not violate the spirit of the proximity police that we have been pursuing since the police reform? If so, will you point this out to the mayor as the competent minister? Your ministry has ordered an investigation into the legality of this team. How's that going? Do you keep this committee informed of your findings?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u11	Mr President, Mr Colebunders, my prepared text also contains answers to questions from Mrs Soors, whom I will answer to you. The AIG is currently carrying out an inspection on the Antwerp emergency response team (ERT). In order not to hinder this research and to guarantee the quality of work, I cannot at present answer all the questions about it. The local police can decide for themselves to deploy a B&T 300 weapon, as it has been recognised as a collective armament by the amendment to the GPI 62, round letter endorsed by myself on 31 October 2019. The B&T 300 is, for the record, a semiautomatic weapon and not a machine gun. Police operational staff may use that weapon in urban areas subject to compliance with the provisions and standards on the use of firearms and control of violence. The GPI 81 circular gives the general reference framework for the deployment of teams special assistance from local police, such as the emergency response team. The supervision of compliance with that letter is the responsibility of the chief of police and of the local police police. In order to avoid the risks of the proliferation of local assistance teams and potential role confusion with the specialised units of the federal police, last month I instructed the federal police to update the GPI 81, in consultation with the Permanent Commission of Local Police, taking into account the recommendations of the AIG. Mr Colebunders, you asked questions about the emergency response team and the welfare team. As I indicated, the emergency response team is a special assistance team, as stipulated in the GPI 81 circular. As part of their mission, they need specific functional equipment. The functional equipment of the special assistance teams is not yet regulated. I have instructed my services to provide for this. In the meantime, I ask the special assistance teams already active, including the ERT of Antwerp, to wear the intervention bracelet during their interventions. I would like to add that adapted police techniques and working methods are not only a need of the Antwerp police area, but also of the fully integrated police force in order to cope with the ever-increasing armament of the criminal and terrorist environment. The current legal framework for the use of a special power surge weapon as a special weapon is sufficient. In addition, the staff has been trained and regularly trained. The mayor can indeed decide to set up an emergency response team, insofar as it meets the definition of special assistance team, as foreseen in the GPI 81. Such teams are complementary to the Special Units of the Federal Police, as they may be entrusted with Level 2 tasks, the Special Risk Level.............. and................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I do not believe that this type of unit infringes the spirit of the proximity police in so far as they comply with the existing rules on selection, training, deployment procedures, harmonisation of arms and the assignments to the local police. However, in response to the latest report by the AIG on the Special Assistance Teams, I asked the Commissioner-General of the Federal Police to update the GPI 81 in consultation with the Standing Committee of the Local Police, so as to avoid and avoid the risks of the proliferation of local assistance teams and a possible confusion of roles with the specialised units of the federal police.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u12	Mr President, Minister, I have heard your explanation. On many points, I can follow you, but at the point where an Antwerp mayor, who had previously cut the ties with the competent special units and is doing so again in the past, we are wondering whether you agree? After all, that is completely in conflict with our idea of the proximity police. I would be paying attention if we allowed ordinary mayors to establish special units blindly. I don't think that's what we're supposed to do in our cities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u13	Debates of the European Parliament 55002340C by Mrs Ponthier is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u14	Minister, I asked this question to the Minister for Asylum and Migration in October. She referred me to the Minister of Justice, to whom I asked the question in October or November. He then referred me back to the Minister of the Interior. So I hope to have an answer today, third time, for good time. Why don't you keep track of how many people in this country have a dual nationality? Are you planning to change that? That seems to me to be important in a number of discussions. For example, your party has a resolution, which we support, on negotiations with countries such as Algeria, Argentina and Bangladesh, given that it is not possible to give up that nationality when acquiring Belgian nationality. In this way, it is, of course, difficult to do something about dual nationality and there is also an inequality between those who can give up their previous nationality and those who cannot. In how many cases does a double nationality occur? If we do not know that, what can we do about it? Yesterday the problem was also topical. My colleague Koen Metsu presented his proposal yesterday for the reduction of nationality in the case of terrorism. Unfortunately, many colleagues did not support it. In these cases, it is important to know exactly how many people have dual nationality and for which countries nationals cannot give up their first nationality. I would like some clarification on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u15	Mrs Van Camp, in the data contained in the National Register, I must inform you that a distinction is made between nationality, Belgian or foreign, included under the type of information 031 "Nationality" and the voluntary acquisition of foreign nationality by a Belgian, included under the type of information 032 "Multiple nationalities." For citizens of an initial foreign nationality who acquire Belgian nationality, only Belgian nationality is considered to be an active source of information. Belgian nationality prevails. In the information type "Nationality," Belgian nationality is registered as a new fact. Initial nationality or nationalities shall be kept in a history. The Belgian who voluntarily acquires a foreign nationality retains Belgian nationality as a result of the amendment of the Belgian nationality code by law of 27 December 2006 on various amendments. The acquisition of the other nationality is therefore registered separately in the National Register on the date of the official document issued by the competent foreign authority. For the sake of clarity, that information shall not be registered for Belgians who, for another reason, are automatically granted a foreign nationality, nor for residents of foreign nationality who have another foreign nationality. After all, there is no legal basis for obtaining or controlling that information. An extraction of the National Register with observation date 6 January 2020 shows that on 4 January 2020 a total of 5,186 persons were registered with Belgian nationality and a foreign nationality obtained on a voluntary basis. Finally, the regulation does not at present provide for the inclusion of any other information relating to nationality.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u16	Minister, if I understand correctly, could it be foreseen?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u17	If there is another legal provision, because such a measure cannot be passed through a royal decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u18	It seems interesting to me that we would know that. Perhaps we can take an initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u19	Minister, I asked this question to your colleague, the Minister for Asylum and Migration in October. At the time, I wanted to know what progress had been made in drawing up the ten-point plan put in place by Minister for the Interior Jan Jambon last parliamentary term. We have the impression that this has not happened since the Marrakesh crisis. I heard from the Minister on 16 October that there had been consultations with the United Kingdom on the intentions for cooperation, both in the areas of infrastructure, intelligence and structural cooperation. Furthermore, the United Kingdom would really consider providing us with financial and, if possible, material support, as was said then. What progress has been made? I assume that it was first about a declaration of intent, without any concrete action being taken. Have measures been taken in the meantime? What kind of financial and material support does the United Kingdom provide to help us with this plan against transmigration? The next part of the question concerns the transit centre 127bis in Steenokkerzeel. That wasn't a success. Minister De Block said you planned an evaluation and drew up alternatives for that center. There would also be an advice from your services. I suggested to the Minister that a satellite centre be set up per province. One of the problems with Steenokkerzeel is its geographical location: it is difficult for police services to bring transit migrants there. The Minister said that it might also be an option to take better account of the geographical needs and set up the centres where most of the transmigrants are picked up. Minister, where are you with the alternatives and with the joint opinion? What alternatives exactly are there for the center 127bis? In the meantime, I understand that the centre is simply being re-used as a closed centre for non-transmigrants, so for ordinary repatriations, if I may put it that way. What alternative is there now for the transmigrants themselves?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u20	Mrs Van Camp, there have been several consultations with the United Kingdom in the meantime, both on operational aspects and on policy aspects. The United Kingdom is ready to invest in infrastructure, intelligence and detection tools for the port of Zeebrugge in the short term. A global investment by the United Kingdom of around EUR 4 million is targeted. With regard to federal police, an investment of about 800,000 euros, excluding VAT, has been approved by the United Kingdom. The orders of detection devices, drones, vessels, vehicles and various materials shall be completed by the end of March 2020. The funds are intended to improve the possibilities for checking cargo for the presence of persons. In addition to the financial support, the United Kingdom has also committed itself to sending additional teams and dogs from the UK Border Force to Zeebrugge. In the meantime, this commitment has been fulfilled by the United Kingdom. The performance of the Transmigrants ACT processing centre in Steenkokkerzeel was closely monitored by the federal police, the Foreign Affairs Office and my cabinet. The follow-up showed that the ACT was used only limitedly. That use was disproportionate to the continued commitment of the federal police. The Foreign Affairs Department was asked to man the handling center. Further analyses also showed that the concentration and centralisation of handling resulted in longer lead times due to several inevitable bottlenecks in the chain. For the police, it often meant an additional tax rather than capacity savings. Finally, it has been pointed out on several occasions that the desired firm approach to trafficking in human beings requires a direct and smooth connection with the judicial work. This is only possible by means of integrated treatment, which is best organised as close as possible to the site of finding. Since the summer, in consultation with my cabinet, we have been experimenting with the offer of mobile support on the ground. At first, this was accompanied by an act on call. However, the experiment showed that this was not necessary. The experiment of mobile support continued after a favourable evaluation. The wing of the center 127bis where the ACT was located was finally transferred to the Department of Foreign Affairs on 1 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u21	That's obvious. Thank you for your answer. As far as the United Kingdom is concerned, is it an annual resource or is it a one-off?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u22	For the time being, these are one-off amounts. We will see what the Brexit agreement gives and what the impact will be on the border traffic of persons, goods and services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u23	Thanks. We hope that thanks to these resources for the coastal communities and the deployment of the mobile team, an initiative that we fully support will improve on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u24	Mr President, Minister, this issue was introduced after the assassination of General Qassem Soleimani on January 3. Following rising tensions between Iran and the United States, threats have been made by some Shiite groups to American interests around the world. Minister, what is the evolution of the threat on Belgian territory? Has L的OCAM changed its evolution of the threat to certain sites? If so, which ones? Has there been an increase in the vigilance of our intelligence services towards certain groups or individuals? Was there also an increase in the police and/or military presence in front of certain sites that could have been considered targets?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a further step was taken in the escalation of tensions between the United States and Iran on 3 January when General Qassem Soleimani was shot down during an American air raid. OCAM believes that this renewed violence between Iranians and Americans currently has no impact on the level of the general threat in Belgium. We reiterate, however, that, given their varying degrees of involvement in this conflict, we have confirmed to "serious" (level 3) the threat to the US Embassy and the Jewish community. We have maintained the level of threat to the Embassy of Saudi Arabia, the Embassy of Iran and the institutions of NATO and SHAPE at "average" level 2. The General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS), in carrying out its tasks, constantly monitors developments in the security situation which may involve a threat to Belgium, the interests of Belgium or its nationals. For reasons of security and confidentiality, the SGRS cannot give any details of these confidential matters, but it is clear that it is even more careful to examine and analyse the effects of these tensions on US troops and interests in Iraq, Afghanistan and Belgium. The possible consequences of American decisions on the safety of our troops in operation and on American installations or transports on Belgian territory are also analysed. Defence intervenes in support of the integrated police, which determines the employment of the military. Neither the federal police nor the local police areas have requested a strengthening of the military presence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u26	Minister, thank you for your rather reassuring response. Let us not forget that Iranian intelligence services have been active in our territory for a number of years and that vigilance is indispensable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u27	Minister, the railway police (SPC) is a specialised police responsible for safety, quality of life and police support in the framework of the transport of persons and goods by rail. Recent figures on staff relations within the SPC show that Flanders is undervalued against Wallonia and Brussels: an under-representation of Dutch speakers against French speakers and strikingly more absenteeism by illness among French speakers compared to Dutch speakers. The number of railway police staff legally assigned to Flanders has only been filled in at 59 %. On the ground, the number of active staff in Flanders appears to be only 52%. Mr Minister, how do you explain the low level of coverage of workers of the SPC in Flanders? What measures will you take to deal with this Flemish deficit quickly? The Brussels SPC appears to consist of only 22% of Dutch speakers. Only 34% of Dutch speakers are represented in the Management Committee. How do you explain the low number of Dutch speakers within the SPC Brussels and the Management Committee of the SPC? What measures will be taken to eliminate this under-representation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u28	As I mentioned earlier in the committee, the Federal Railway Police are faced with a staff deficit. This is why this Executive Board was defined in 2020 as one of the three priority managements for the recruitment of staff within the general management of the administrative police. In 2019, the Brussels SPC updated its staff to 93 % of the organic table. Today we only see an important personnel deficit at the SPC region of Noord, whose mother service is located in Antwerp and on the Walloon side of the SPC region of South, whose mother service is located in Charleroi. These two SPC regions will receive particular attention for recruitment during 2020. In 2019, the SPC Executive Board conducted sensitisation sessions in favour of the SPC in the provincial schools, allowing a growing interest in the SPC to be established. Of course, this catch-up process takes time. The SPC Brussels and the Management Committee effectively involve under-representation of Dutch speakers. As soon as more Dutch speakers apply for future vacancies, the SPC will evaluate their candidacy with special interest with a view to recruitment. The SPC encourages each member of staff to obtain the Selorbrevet and also offers the possibility to take language lessons. In addition, the SPC stimulates the exchange and cooperation between colleagues from different language regimes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The low number of Dutch speakers by the under-representation within the SPC Brussels and the Management Committee, and the problems of filling the statutory framework of the SPC in Flanders, are not new facts. These problems have existed for years. My colleague, Mr Pas, has repeatedly denounced this in the past. On her questions, she always received the answer that actions would be taken, and I hear that again. Fortunately, you also dropped the word 'priority' and said that the issue will receive your particular attention. I call on you to make effective work of it now and to bring these unacceptable situations quickly to an end.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u30	Mr President, Minister, in mid-January there was an extremely dangerous situation on the Flemish coast. Fourteen illegals then made a failed attempt to cross the North Sea in a small boat. Fortunately there were no deaths, but it could have been fatal. Let us be clear, no sensible person wants to see casualties in the North Sea. If we want to avoid this, then we must be politically supportive and, first and foremost, prevent people from crossing the border. Human smugglers take advantage of the very weak security on our coasts. In January, I had a personal conversation with the Chief Constable of the West Coast Police Zone, who told me that his corps was heavily overburdened by additional checks at the highway parking facilities, such as in Mannekensvere, additional checks on coastal trams and buses and additional checks at the port of Nieuwpoort. The Coast Guard is structurally undermanned and actually has hardly any people and boats to accomplish the tasks. Meanwhile, France is already using military forces to guard the beaches, pushing migratory pressure towards our coast. Governor Carl Decaluwé of West Flanders rightly calls for additional support from the federal government. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. First of all, are you willing to respond to the demand for additional support? If so, what will this additional support consist of? Secondly, Flemish interest believes that Member States should have the right to guard their borders, especially as long as a European solution is not reached. Are there going to be stricter controls at the border with France, as the French themselves do at the border with Spain and Italy? Thirdly, do you have contacts and cooperate with the United Kingdom? What commitments and concrete support have you already received?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u31	Mr President, Minister, I would also like to ask a little more operational and technical questions. As my colleague says, the problem of transmigration remains a structural fact in the province of West Flanders. The governor asked for additional staff on 23 January and also wants to invest in innovative resources to control them more efficiently. By these means, he refers to the use of drones, not only in the ports, but along the coastline in general. He called for cooperation with Frontex and with France. Those drones have been announced before, by the way, by you, but it is still unclear when they will be able to be deployed. In our country, an integrated coastguard centre has been operating for a long time, with the operational part of the Coast Guard consisting of the Maritime Rescue and Coordination Centre in Ostend and the Maritime Information Crossing Point in Zeebrugge. The latter is responsible for safety at sea and acts in drug trafficking, smuggling, illegal fishing and other prohibited activities. I assume that transmigration via boats is also an illegal activity. The National Crisis Centre of the FPS Interior is also involved in the policy body of the Integrated Coast Guard Centre. Minister, how many interventions at sea related to human trafficking were recorded by the Belgian Coast Guard during the years 2017, 2018 and 2019? How many transmigrants were involved? To what extent has the problem of boat refugees or illegal transmigration been addressed by sea crossings in recent weeks and months in the Coastal Guard's management body? Are additional and specific measures taken to continue to control this phenomenon as regards the role of the Coast Guard Centre, in cooperation with its partners? Could you give an overview of the recent discussions with Frontex? What's the timeline for drone deployment along our coast?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u32	Mr President, Minister, on January 21, a group of transmigrants attempted to cross the North Sea by boat from La Panne to the United Kingdom. This attempt to cross is relatively unprecedented at the time of departure from our country. We know, however, that the management of the Sangatte camp in France and the problem of transmigrants present on Belgian territory whose aim is to travel to the United Kingdom have imposed specific measures in police terms. For example, in February 2016, the Federal Police was responsible for the Medusa plan to provide operational support to local police at the Franco-Belgian border and, precisely, at La Panne. Minister, could you tell me if the Medusa plan is still operational? If so, what is the current police force dedicated to this plan and to which local police areas? How many investigations were conducted under the Medusa Plan in 2018 and 2019? How many seizures of transmigrants have been carried out by local police border areas in France during the same years? What are your contacts with your French and English counterparts in this context? As I arrived as you were answering the question from a colleague from the N-VA, I think I heard some answers. Considering Brexit, have any new initiatives been taken at your level to address this migration issue? Do you confirm that no other attempt of this type of crossing has been made at the departure of our country? If so, have any specific initiatives been taken by our police services in this regard? Finally, what operational process has been put in place between our services and the French and English authorities at sea level?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already answered a number of questions raised by Mrs Van Camp. I will try to give as full an answer as possible. Belgium is a transit country for transmigrants. The solutions to this need to be found within the wider context of the European Union and the Schengen area. That is also the message that we have already sent very clearly to the European Commission in its new composition. We are also working with France on a thorough and focused cooperation in various areas. Contacts with the Prefect of the northern French region of Hauts-de-France are very good. The contacts with my colleague, Mr Castaner, are also very intensive. This is in line with the efforts being made at the same time within the European Union to protect the external borders and linked to the strengthening of cross-border police action in the border regions, in which we are participating. As far as the number of interventions at sea by the Belgian Coast Guard in connection with human trafficking is concerned, I would nevertheless like to give you some figures. In 2017, one sailboat with eight persons was found on board, no such intervention had to be carried out in 2018 and three interventions were held in 2019. A sailboat with powerboat was intercepted with nine persons on board, including two smugglers. Two unmanned motorboats were found at sea. One of these motorboats is still under investigation. Finally, a body was also found, provided with an improvised life jacket, made from plastic bottles. This matter was dealt with very clearly by the media. The main mission of the Coast Guard is to ensure good cooperation between the 17 Flemish and federal services operating on and around the North Sea, with the aim of ensuring that all activities are safe and secure. The Coast Guard Centre is part of the Coast Guard structure and consists of two complementary parts. There is the Maritime Rescue and Coordination Centre in Ostend (MRCC) and the Maritime Information Crossroads (MIK), and the cooperation between police, Defence, Customs and the Maritime Security cell of the DG Shipping, stationed in Zeebrugge. The MRCC is responsible for maritime safety, with the coordination of rescue operations, while MIK is responsible for maritime security and checks compliance with legislation at sea, maritime and maritime law. The Coast Guard Centre, together with the vessels, helicopters and monitoring aircraft of the partners, is the eyes and ears that watch over the strip of the North Sea for which we are responsible. It is correct that, through a number of exploratory contacts and discussions, our country is considering whether we can not benefit from the support of the European agency Frontex, for example in the form of aerial surveillance, when dealing with the phenomenon. With regard to Mr Pivin's questions, today, at my request, strategic consultation platforms are regularly organised in all the provinces in which all the relevant partners are involved. Under the direction of the government, the phenomenon is closely monitored and an integrated, multidisciplinary and tailor-made approach is decided during these consultations. The organisation of coordinated police actions, better known as Medusa actions, is one of them. The driving force behind our approach is the Governor and Director-Coordinator of the Federal Police, with the objective of making maximum and efficient use of resources, including the Integrated Police and the Aliens Office. More than ever, the emphasis must be on good interaction with the judiciary, in favour of a better approach to trafficking in human beings. In 2018, a total of 12,686 migrants in transit were intercepted by the police. In 2019, there were 8,853, and approximately 16% were found in Medusa coordinated actions. Police zones along the French border intercepted 1,661 transmigrants together in 2018, 1,608 for 2019. As part of the general national preparation of Brexit, the capacity for border control and the Western Flanders Intervention Force (KIC) has been strengthened. In concrete terms, 24 additional full-time equivalents have been provided for border control of the railway police, the airport police and the maritime police, and the ICK of West Flanders has welcomed 10 staff members last year. Support from the various field services of the integrated police force, in the context of transit migration, has been further expanded. The support of the ICK is therefore in addition to the general support of the federal police organised at national level. Specifically, in anticipation of 31 January 2020, the Federal Police increased its intervention reserve and focused even more on assistance for unexpected interceptions of large groups of migrants in transit. Controls in the port of Zeebruges have also been strengthened. The maritime police receive daily support from the IKC of West Flanders and British Border Police teams. Further investments and assistance in port security have been agreed with the United Kingdom. The beaches and entry areas from Nieuport to the French border are subject to increased surveillance involving the maritime police, the West Flanders KIC and the Westkust police zone. Within the structures of the Coast Guard, the Carrefour d'Information Maritime and the Maritime Coordination and Rescue Centre work in a multidisciplinary manner with their respective French maritime partners. In conclusion, all measures were therefore taken. A lot of additional staff from the federal police are being deployed. I myself have provided for an additional quota of about 30 to 40 additional police officers following the Brexit to carry out border controls and limit transmigration. There are regular checks on the parkings, in Mannekensvere almost daily, at the parkings of Oudenburg-Westkerke and at the parking lot of Jabbeke. I believe that sufficient staff are being deployed to control the phenomenon of transmigration, which is taking place not only in West Flanders but also in many other provinces. The actions also have a deterrent effect on those who would like to abuse our legislation. By the way, if there is a need for additional staff in certain situations, the governor can always, with the right of initiative conferred on him by his position, arrange for all provinces: East Flanders, Antwerp, Limburg, Hainaut and Luxembourg, a redistribution of the tasks of the local police zones in order to make additional staff available, to the extent that this would be necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u34	Minister, your measures will, of course, be inadequate and too late. Only strict border controls and a firm return policy can prevent victims in the North Sea. We are always talking about immigrants and refugees here, but it must be clear that this is about illegal immigrants. A country that tolerates illegality on its territory cannot call itself a state of law. The French government is acting decisively, but unfortunately for our policemen it is mop up with the crane open. You can't do that anymore. It's obvious to us. We must stop the illegals at the French border. The illegal immigrants who are still on Flemish soil must be actively tracked down, arrested and imprisoned in anticipation of their return to their own country. Finally stop mass immigration and check the boundaries. We must again take over our own country, our own borders and our own future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u35	Thank you for your wonderful speech at your party congress. I believe that the measures we are taking are certainly in line with a strict migration policy. Those who are not eligible to reside in one way or another in our territory will be obliged to leave the territory after the necessary procedures have been completed. Returns are also made on a regular basis. I think you put your ear a little too often to listen to locally inspired remarks, which can certainly be there, but which we have already addressed in a significant way. I am surprised, but you praise French policy. But the refugee camps in Calais and Dover in France were closed by a measure taken by the Prefect, reinforced by an additional measure taken by the Minister of the Interior. All parkings towards Belgium were also closed. All this, of course, had an immediate effect on influx into Belgian territory. I then immediately took the measure, both in the West Flemish border region and in the Hainaut border region, to carry out additional checks and with results. The applause meter will undoubtedly go up at your conference, but you will not solve the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u36	Minister, you were just talking about listening to the ear, and that is exactly what the Flemish interest is doing. We listen to the policemen and women who work every day on the West Coast. I also had a conversation with the Chief Constable of the West Coast Zone. That man's got his hands in the hair. He says he doesn't have to rely on federal support, because there's just no federal support. He says his corps is overloaded. All those checks in Mannekensvere, all those checks in Nieuwpoort, all those checks on the coast trams and the buses, it's mopping with the crane open. I would remind you of the criticism of Mayor Marc Vanden Bussche of Koksijde when the asylum centre opened right on the transit route from Calais to Zeebrugge. He said that there is no control over safety there. He was also assisted by his chief of police. The chief of police also said that his French-speaking colleagues did not include the opening of an asylum centre in a place where weapons are stored, namely on the military base in Koksijde. It is not just Flemish Interesters who say that, they are people who face reality every day. I suggest you talk to Mayor Dedecker, who can tell you in smells and colors what the reality is today on the West Coast street.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u37	I'm just finding that the center in Oostduinkerke has gotten there. There's a big difference between word and deed. I regularly speak with all the parties involved, with all the mayors, including the West Coast zoning chief. He has one of the best partners in me to formulate his security policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u38	Mr Minister, based on the number of interventions, it could be said that the number of cases of trafficking in human beings at sea has been relatively limited in recent years. I'll stay a little hungry when it comes to Frontex. You're talking about discussions. The deployment of drones by Frontex has been announced several times over the past few weeks and months by the West Flemish governor and in fact by you. As you mentioned a deadline for the British commitments in and around the port of Zeebrugge, I also ask for a deadline for the deployment of the drones.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u39	I support the proposal of the Governor of West Flanders regarding the deployment of a specific drone. I also discussed the matter with him at the provincial government in Bruges. For us, there is no obstacle to guaranteeing the drone's employability as soon as possible and making it financially possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u41	Debates of the European Parliament 55002798C and 55002799C by Mr Warmoes are postponed at his request. Debates of the European Parliament 55002801C by Mr Vanden Burre has been converted into a written question. Mrs Chanson is stuck in another committee, we will see if we can find her question No. 55002808C later. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Rigot's 55002814C has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u42	You are aware of the difficulties faced by the chiefs of corps in the local police areas of the province of Hainaut. A staggering shortage of staff makes the performance of their duties ever more difficult. And yet, the management of staff is already very complicated: rigid status, constantly increasing workload or increasing number of planned or unannounced mass events requiring large numbers of staff. Recruitment quotas are also obsolete and need to be revised upwards. For example, at the Francophone level, out of 200 senior inspectors who passed the pre-selection tests, only 112 of them were admitted to the training cycle. I also believe that the absorption capacity of the Hainaut Provincial Police Academy in Jurbise (APPH) allowed for the incorporation of more candidates. The local police funding mechanism also needs to be rethought. Since 2001, decisions that have had an impact on local budgets have not been included. However, there was no proportional increase in federal endowments associated with these expenses. This is an untenable situation for communal finances. Do you intend to review the recruitment quotas so that the Police Academy fully engages its training capabilities, taking into account urgent staffing needs? Do you intend to review the local police funding mechanism?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u43	Currently, there is no initiative to review the calculation of quotas. These are determined taking into account the needs of the police areas and the federal police, the budgetary capacity and the total capacity of the various approved schools. The Ministerial Decree of 7 May 2007 lays down the distribution of candidates for basic training of the basic framework among approved schools. As regards the training of the middle management, it is important to remember that the approved schools welcome the candidates not only in terms of their capacity to receive them, but also in terms of the wishes of the candidates. Therefore, depending on the free choice of candidates, it is possible that the capacity of schools may not be fully utilized. I am fully aware that, since police reform nearly twenty years ago, police areas have faced new developments and challenges that have had an impact on both the functioning and the budget of police areas. It is in this context that the federal government has since introduced several additional allocations and has taken steps to meet the needs and new reality of the police areas, so that all of them, given their specific local circumstances, can provide an equivalent basic police service. This is a very important concept. A structural review of the funding of the local police was not provided for in the Michel I government agreement and will still not be on the agenda as long as we have a government in charge of dealing with day-to-day affairs. It is therefore up to a government benefiting from the fullness of its powers to take such major initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u44	Mr. Minister, at the request of Mrs. Taquin, there's a question...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u45	...more or less similar? Yes, I will answer that now too, if Mrs. Dedonder accepts it. I don't think that's a problem. Simply, at the outset, I answered Mrs. Dedonder's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u46	Mr President, on a point of order. Move 50 forward?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u47	Because that question, No. 55003435C by Mrs Taquin, in line with Mrs Dedonder's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u48	Why weren't they joined together? Everyone here is waiting to ask their question. The committee itself decides on the work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u49	If they're similar questions, I think it makes sense to put them together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u50	I bow to the wisdom of the committee and its chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u51	Minister, I cannot say that I welcome your answer. There is indeed a problem and we will have to think about refinancing. I hope to be able to come back to the issue quickly – as I imagine you – in the context of a government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u52	Mr Minister, the abuse of minors, because of their physical and psychological fragility, due in particular to the authority exercised on them, is simply odious and must of course continue to be the subject of a permanent struggle, both at the level of the federal services and of the youth welfare services of the federated entities. For many years, police services have been working very well with school management. Operational frameworks for collaboration and cooperation are in place and are aimed at illegal acts that can be committed in schools. They also enable, beyond the fight against juvenile delinquency, the detection of cases of abuse or breach of parental responsibility. Could you please tell me what circular is currently in place for cooperation between the police and school directorates? What are the objectives set out in the National Security Plan for the abuse of minors and specifically for domestic abuse of minors? Under what process do police agencies cooperate with federated entities in cases of ill-treatment and trafficking in human beings? How many protocols of cooperation between the police, municipal authorities and schools are currently in force in our country with regard to dropping out of school? Does every police area in our country have a contact person dedicated to this issue? As part of the penalty requiring a parenting internship in the event of a marked disinterest, how many cases were registered in 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018? How many incidents of domestic abuse of minors have been recorded by the police over the last five years and what is the annual trend? What collaboration exists between the police and SOS Enfants? Has any recent evaluation of measures to combat domestic abuse of minors been carried out within the Internal FPS? Has an evaluation of the parental internship recently been conducted by the police and youth welfare services of the federated entities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u53	Dear colleague, I would like first of all to stress that I strongly condemn any form of violence against children or minors, whether it be psychological or psychological. Ministerial Circular PLP 41 of 7 July 2006 on strengthening and/or adjusting local security policy and the specific approach to juvenile crime with a point of contact for schools addresses accompanying measures to ensure a safe school environment. There are also memorandums of understanding between police areas and schools. Approximately 600 people have been trained to support victims in a broad sense within the police services. However, there are no cadastres per zone on this subject. Finally, with regard to the follow-up to the parental internship, I refer to my colleague in charge of Justice. Much of this matter is also dealt with at Community level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u54	Minister, thank you. I think it's useful for us to activate a cadastre. There is a lack of clarity in the interpretation of the concept of characterized disinterest and parenting. It seems to me appropriate to clarify this so that the plan to combat violence and domestic violence against children can achieve the objectives that have been set. I will not fail, as you suggest, to ask the Minister of Justice a question about parenting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u55	Debates of the European Parliament 55002935C by Mrs Thibaut will be converted into a written question. Mrs Chanson has been prevented from attending another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u56	Mr President, Minister, international stations Liège, Antwerp, Brussels-South, Brussels-North and Brussels-Central are still critical points as a possible target of attacks. Therefore, the OCAD maintains level 3 on terror. The recommendations are the following: mobile patrols; implementation in coordination with the services of SNCB, Infrabel, Thalys and Eurostar; reinforcement of mixed Belgian-French patrols on the Thalys, several times a day and mixed Belgian-Dutch patrols; increased awareness and prior briefing at the start of the service for the personnel of the surveillance company crews of the transport companies operating in the aforementioned infrastructures; and deployment of BDO teams. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, why does the railway police not comply with the recommendations of the OCAD? Secondly, how many patrols were held in 2019? Thirdly, how many BDO teams do the railway police have? Fourthly, how many people have already received this BDO training?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u57	Mr President, Mrs Dewulf, in her area of action, the railway police are implementing the measures taken by the National Crisis Centre on the basis of recommendations from the OCAD. It has the support of Defence and the Intervention Corps. There are mixed patrols with neighbouring countries on the lines Kortrijk-Rijsel, Antwerp-Roosendaal, Antwerp-Breda-Rotterdam, Brussels-Paris, Brussels-Rijsel, Liège-Aachen and Liège-Maastricht. These mixed police patrols are not always easy to deploy because they depend on the availability of the French and Dutch partners, so that the railway police also carry out additional patrols if necessary. For the regions West (West and East Flanders) and Noord (Antwerp and Limburg) all staff took the BDO or Behavioural Detection Officer training. There are 120 additional staff to be trained in Brussels. In the East region (Liège, Luxembourg and Namur), some 100 people need training. There are no specific BDO patrols. BDO concerns a technique used by the regular teams, both at the stations and on the trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u58	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u59	Debates of the European Parliament 55003000C by Mrs Thibaut has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u60	Minister, this Thursday 30 January, alerted by local residents but also by road users and train drivers, the police of Tournai had to intervene and question some seven hundred people (out of a total of nearly 140, present in the vicinity) who were in danger and who were endangering other users by moving along the road from Lille to Tournai or along the Mouscron-Tournai railway. These people, mainly Eritreans, came from France. As part of this intervention, the local police were able to count on the support of neighbouring areas and the federal police. The arrested persons were subsequently taken over by the local authorities, in particular by the CPAS of the city of Tournai. Of course, I am glad that this has happened without violence. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that events of this kind are increasingly frequent and burdensome for the local police forces: 80 men, not to mention the federal mobilization. This is a significant deployment that may be more relevant from a security point of view in other missions. In a border area such as Tournai, the passages of what it has now agreed to call "transmigrants" from northern France are inevitably numerous and constitute a specific phenomenon. I have already asked you about the success of cross-border cooperation in other areas such as the fight against drug trafficking. But I can only question what is being done about cooperation on the migration issue in particular. What contacts have you had with your French counterpart with regard to these files in particular? Have you been aware of any particular facts that could explain the magnitude of this sudden influx on January 30? What avenues can you envisage, with the French Ministry of the Interior, for this matter to be dealt with in a satisfactory way for all the parties concerned (Belgian or French residents, railwaymen and police officers as well as transmigrants) who all have different but legitimate aspirations for solutions to be found?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u61	Mr President, Mrs Dedonder, the transmigration has been closely monitored by me and my services, and this has always been a top priority since I took office. It is quite exceptional to find such large groups of migrants in transit. In general, it can be said that preventive measures taken in France and Belgium to prevent migrants in transit from crossing the Channel and the North Sea, respectively, create opportunities for people to embark further and further inland. These are often major road relays. As you know, they lead directly to Dunkirk with its port area. A direct cause of this sudden influx may have been the imminent arrival of Brexit on January 31. There was some nervousness among transit migrants to cross to England before that date. Recently, in December 2019, I participated in a major police operation in Hainaut. I fully support the initiatives taken by the coordinating Governor-Director tandem. They are the driving force behind a coordinated and integrated, tailor-made approach, defined in a multidisciplinary manner during provincial consultations with all relevant partners. Police control actions are part of this. In this regard, I have asked the police to step up their efforts throughout the country. The Governor is currently examining the extent to which a mobility plan can be developed to reduce the number of long-term parking and truck stopovers on highways. At the time of your question, a police order of the governor of the province of Hainaut was being drafted and published for implementation on 12 February. The idea was to limit the possible access areas for transit migrants in order to board trucks in the direction of England. The police continue to carry out monitoring activities on a regular basis and road police teams are reinforced daily by the Hainaut intervention force (CIK), particularly in the context of transit migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u62	Minister, thank you for your answer. Let us hope that this remains an exceptional case and remain attentive, because I do not think that the phenomenon is close to stopping, unfortunately!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u63	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Rigot's 55003007C and Mr Raskin's 55003017C have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u64	Minister, I recently went to the Hainaut Information and Communication Centre (ICC) in Mons to see more concretely how it works. Among the elements that have caught my attention, there is undoubtedly the psychosocial burden on callmakers responsible for handling emergency calls. I must admit that an effort has been made since you took office. I wanted to stress that. At CIC Hainaut, the number of callmakers currently stands at 42, while the legal framework provides for 52, and they process an average of 250,000 calls per year. Every day, this is equivalent, per callaker, to a workload of more or less 150 calls, raising it to one of the highest in the country. In other provinces such as Walloon Brabant or Luxembourg, the number of calls is much lower, since it varies between 50 and 80 calls, i.e. half the number. For CIC Director Hainaut, this workload per worker is too high. He would like every effort to be made to reach the ideal figure of 80 calls per day by caller. Among the ways to do this, in one of my parliamentary questions, your predecessor, Mr. Jambon, had spoken of setting up a supra-provincial structure "to facilitate a better distribution of work among all emergency call centres, so that the workload is more balanced during peak calls". Minister, could you please indicate today whether progress has been made in the implementation of this supra-provincial structure? If so, how long could it be?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u65	Mr President, I would like to point out that the supra-provincial project has been developed for emergency power plants 112 and not for power plants 101. The main purpose of this new structure is to allow emergency stations 112 to come in as reinforcements when one or more plants are faced with an increase in calls, following a particular incident, and they are no longer able to process their calls within a reasonable time. All of our 112 plants will be integrated into the supraprovincial architecture before the end of 2021. In addition, in the event of a shortage of staff and only on an ad hoc basis, other provinces can provide support to a province that manifests a need for it. However, while things are clear, the supra-provincial structure does not aim at fully national or regional processing of appeals. The latter remain treated as a priority by the power station of the territorially competent province. Calls to plant 101 are mostly handled by neutral calltakers who depend on the Inland FPS. The federal police had set the necessary framework for these employees for a reasonable workload. Other avenues for reducing workload are also being analysed and have even been implemented recently. Thus, the options menu was generalized throughout the country on February 11. This pilot project has shown that the number of unnecessary calls to power stations 112 and 101 is decreasing significantly, and that therefore there are fewer call transfers between the two power stations. We also made sure to optimize the basic training of the new neutral calltakers. The duration of their training has thus increased from three to two months, so that they can be more quickly operational in their emergency call centre.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u66	Mr President, Minister, you have just decided in the Council of Ministers to maintain, until 2 March next, a maximum deployment of 550 military personnel in the major cities of Belgium, as part of the Memorandum of Understanding on Defence Support to the Integrated Police Service with a view to carrying out surveillance missions, which emanates from Operation Vigilant Guardian (OVG). Of this maximum of 550 military personnel, about 100 are counted in the context of Operation Spring Guardian, which initially aimed to complement the OVG system and to support the police in securing our nuclear facilities in Flanders and Wallonia. Today, however, military deployment to secure nuclear sites is only taking place in Flanders. Mr Minister, why now use military support to secure nuclear sites only in Flanders and not also in Wallonia? With regard to Walloon sites, who now provides security in place of the military? Is this extension of military surveillance in Flanders likely to evolve? If so, according to which calendar?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u67	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, the security of nuclear sites in Wallonia is ensured by the Directorate of Security of the Directorate-General of the Administrative Police (DAB), which has taken over the duties of the military. The use of military support for the security of nuclear sites is due to the difficulty of recruitment in Flanders by the DAB. The nuclear sites in Doel, Dessel, Mol and Geel continue to be secured by the military, as long as the DAB reaches sufficient capacity to fully fulfill its mission. Full capacity is expected, according to our projections, for September 2021. It is therefore necessary to wait another year and a half before the ceiling is reached.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u68	Minister, can you explain why it is more difficult for the DAB to recruit in Flanders than in Wallonia?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u69	This is due to a shortage in the labour market and competition from the private sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u70	Maybe we could hire Walloons.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u71	Certainly. Proposals have already been made. I will not epilogue on the subject, but a very interesting show has gone on television.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u72	There are also people who are bilingual.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u73	Certainly. In this documentary, it was shown that it was impossible to join Flanders to say yes to existing vacant places. That being said, it is the shortage in the labour market. Competition prevails with the private sector in the whole area of security in particular, with, inter alia, the benefits that are provided by private companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u74	What about the demands made on members who could switch to BAD? At first, it existed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u75	They had this opportunity. That's another question. I want to check the numbers and send them to you. These are members who were in a proposed system to move to the ADB. I must once again, perhaps, disillusion you. It was not a great success either, throughout the territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u76	I would like to receive these figures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u77	Minister Edora, the Federation of Companies Developing Products and Services Towards the Energy Transition, is concerned and I share their concern. Indeed, I am very concerned about the high number of wind projects that are the subject of an appeal to the Council of State. In fact, it is mainly the consequence of this which is harmful since in total it is possible to estimate 300 MW of wind energy that all these recourses prevent one from seeing the light of day. The Council of State thus becomes an instrument to prevent wind projects for all those who do not want them near their homes. However, the role of the Council of State is not to judge whether projects are appropriate. Today, the Council of State remains this instrument. The projects are then blocked for up to three years, alas, the time it takes for the Council of State to give its opinion on this type of remedy. In this context, I ask you, minister, how can we still hope that companies will dare to invest in wind turbines that we are in great need of? Of course, I do not deny here the interest of the Council of State, which remains an indispensable shield for our citizens against all illegal or abusive administrative decisions. However, given the climate emergency, slowing down the energy transition is a luxury that we cannot afford. It is therefore necessary to improve the effectiveness of the Council of State. Minister, what do you intend to do to solve this problem and thus enable our country to move forward faster in its energy transition? Are you considering, as the sector calls for, imposing a six-month deadline on the Council of State to deliver its opinion?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u78	My colleague, it is difficult to calculate an average duration of processing of wind turbine cases which is relevant since these cases are, depending on the circumstances of the case, dealt with according to different types of procedure which are difficult to compare: suspension, annulment of French-speaking cases, cassation of Dutch-speaking cases, etc. These cases are often very complex from both a legal and a technical point of view. Procedural writings are generally voluminous, as are files filed. They therefore require a significant investment in human resources. From a strictly legal point of view, the processing of wind turbine cases was delayed for a long period by an appeal against the Walloon Government's order of 13 January 2014 laying down the sectoral conditions applicable to wind farms and which required questioning the Court of Justice of the European Union, also holding pending the cases related to this order. This is the D'Oultremont case. All this implies that imposing a period of six months to deal with these cases, while respecting supranational, national and regional rules and the right to an effective remedy, is not realistic. The imposition of such a time limit should necessarily be accompanied by a significant strengthening of the human resources available to the Council of State, otherwise the priority given to such cases would be at the expense of delays in other types of cases, including in other environmental cases. Moreover, if one chooses to identify certain cases as priorities, then the delicate question of respect for the principle of equality arises. The Council of State is making every effort to reduce the processing time for all cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u79	Minister, thank you. Could at least the time limit indicate whether an appeal is admissible be speeded up? This first step would act as a filter and make it possible to move faster. Furthermore, is the fundamental question not, and you have alluded to it, to increase the resources of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u80	Mr President, Minister, in mid-2017 a special Council of Ministers on Security agreed to allow, in Dutch example, a deal between the shopkeeper and the shoplifter, and this under the supervision of the Public Prosecutor. It is expected that the problem of shoplifting could be better addressed. However, such an alternative treatment of shoplifting requires a protocol agreement. Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Ducarme replied to an oral question that this protocol agreement will not be reached in current cases. According to the Minister, the College of Attorney General had many legal reserves with regard to the draft protocol agreement. Furthermore, police forces must also endorse the protocol agreement. Minister, to what extent was the police involved in the drafting of the draft protocol agreement? Do the police have any objections to this agreement? If so, which one? Are you also of the opinion that a government should have full power to bring this matter to a positive conclusion? If so, why? If not, what steps have you taken and will you take to bring this dossier to a successful conclusion?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u81	Mr President, Mrs Houtmeyers, an alternative approach to the shoplifting industry indeed requires a protocol agreement. In 2018, there was an initiative by the Minister of the Interior, my predecessor Mr Jambon, and the Minister of Justice to reach this protocol agreement. Minister Jambon asked the Federal Police Coordination Committee for an opinion on this issue in March 2018. The Coordination Committee gave an opinion on 28 May 2018 and then commissioned the launch of a working group under the status of the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, in which the federal police participated in the period 2018-2019. However, the federal police were no longer involved in the final drafting of the protocol agreement. The federal police are not opposed to such an initiative, but also the Minister of Justice and in the case of extension the magistrate should be able to decide on this option of amicable settlement and at least give advice. I will also take this matter very seriously and draw my colleagues' attention to this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u82	That's obvious, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u83	Debates of the European Parliament 55003089C by Mr Arens and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 55003121C by Mrs Jadin have been converted into written questions. Laurence Zanchetta is no longer here to ask her question no. 55003118C. Debates of the European Parliament 55003196C by Mr Delizée has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u84	Mr President, Minister, I have read with interest the letter that you have communicated to the House of Representatives, as well as the memo of the services of the Internal FPS, concerning the application of the law of 2 May 2019 relating to the amendment of the mention "divorced" and "widow/widow" in the administrative acts. You and your administration believe that the law in question would contravene the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), arguing that the latter entrusts each authority with the task of establishing which personal data must be disclosed, within its sphere of competence, for the successful completion of its tasks. And that, therefore, the prescriptions of the law could not be complied with. As I read you, it seems to me that, irrespective of whether it is possible or not to establish within the list referred to in Article 2 § 1 of the law the proposed distinction, there is no objection to the fact that, as a first step, this list of cases in which the communication of the civil status of citizens is necessary is actually established. Furthermore, Article 6 of the GDPR establishes that States have the right to provide for "more specific provisions" than the GDPR for public authorities "by determining more precisely the specific requirements applicable to the processing and other measures to ensure the lawful and fair processing of the data concerned". I would therefore like you to confirm two things. Does your administration intend to apply at least the first part of the provisions of Article 2, § 1, of the Law of 2 May 2019 by drawing up a list of documents bearing the civil status? Do you confirm to me that, in the absence of a royal decree determining exceptions, the provisions of § 2 are of general application, and that therefore no document produced by the authorities having access to the National Register of Natural Persons or to the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale will contain any mention of the civil status of the persons concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u85	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, as I have already pointed out, the implementation of the law of 2 May 2019 on the amendment of the reference to "divorced" and "widow/widow" in administrative acts poses some difficulties. To begin with, I will refer to the legal opinion that I provided to the Speaker of the House on December 10, 2019. This opinion refers to a conflict between the said law and Article 25 of the General Data Protection Regulation, which refers to the obligations of the data controller. Secondly, this opinion highlights the conflict between Article 5 of the GDPR and the exclusive responsibilities of any public service to ensure that personal data are adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary for the purposes for which they are processed. This is the principle of data minimization. Furthermore, Article 2, § 1, of the Law of 2 May 2019 empowers the King to establish a list of documents for which the communication of a citizen's civil status is necessary, which is therefore an exclusive responsibility of each public service. Furthermore, Article 2 § 3 of the same Law provides that, in the communication of civil status in the documents referred to in paragraph 1 for which the maintenance of the terms 'divorced' or 'widow/widow' is not strictly necessary, the communication of a state of divorce or widowhood is made, at the request of the person concerned, by the mention'single'. Consequently, § 3 above is in contradiction with § 1, which would only include documents in which the civil status is strictly necessary, as provided for in the GDPR. It is not up to me or my administration to monitor the effective implementation of the principle of minimisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u86	Mr Minister, there is no need for a legal opinion on Parliament's vote. Article 6 of the GDPR allows the authorities to lay down stricter rules and, in my view, you could already set the full list. I will suggest that we talk about this again in committee with other colleagues who have brought with me this bill passed under the previous legislature by a large majority and who have followed a classic legislative path, with opinions from the services and the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u87	Mr President, I am sticking to my reply, which was complete, but I have no problem organizing interviews or meetings with the departments responsible for the Internal FPS.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u88	Mr. Minister, in Flemish Brabant, Logo is rolling out local health surveys per municipality. My municipality Haacht is the first municipality to launch the survey. Logo does this in collaboration with Sciensano, which has a cooperation agreement with the Flemish government. Sciensano must be authorised by the Minister of the Interior to select a sample from the National Register. However, this authorisation has been delayed for a long time, which seriously jeopardises the timing of the whole scheme, not just for my municipality. However, since we are first and then there are a number of other municipalities, we run the risk of falling behind with the whole series. Mr. Secretary, has that authorization already been submitted to you? When will Sciensano be able to draw a sample from the National Register?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u89	Mrs. Jiroflée, I am regularly questioned here in committee about privacy. In view of the number of questions put by your group on the subject, I can only conclude that, rightly, this is an important subject for your party. It is also a very important subject for me. I assume that we can both agree that access to the National Register is thoroughly controlled by the government. The control principle applies to all applications, including those from the beautiful Haacht municipality. The specific request was received by my services at the beginning of October 2019. It turned out to be lacking. That is why you know the reason for the delay. We can work together to meet the demand. If you also want a general picture of this matter, I can tell you that I have instructed the Home Office to work on a generic authorisation for research assignments so that it can be granted more easily, in other words, with a general schedule.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u90	It is an important theme for us. I am also pleased that you want to work out a general arrangement for such matters. Still, I'm a little hungry. When will we be able to continue our project in the region?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u91	How can I help you?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u92	It is clearly stated that your signature is required to give that authorization. Perhaps the document has not yet been submitted to you for signature and the services are still working on it. But I expected you to be able to put a timing on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u93	Through my cabinet I will keep in touch with you, with a solution in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u94	That would be very kind. This would mean that the whole train, which is on the move, would arrive more or less on time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u95	Debates of the European Parliament 55003260C by Mr Van Langenhove was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u96	Mr. Secretary, I'd like to give our aid workers a big hug first. They managed the passage of the storm Ciara on 9 and 10 February. Here and there we have some problems that we need to look at. After all, they show the weaknesses that can lead to danger in extreme weather phenomena. From the Flemish-Brabant West relief zone we got the signal that more calls came in than could be answered. Initially there were reportedly more firefighters present than the minimum occupation requirement. Then people were sent home so that they could take their overtime. This led to a shortage of staff in the operations, leading to calls for volunteers. In practice, we often see that once the minimum occupancy is reached, people are asked to take their overtime. Firefighters complain that this way they can never work with a comfortable occupation. Do you think this is a broader problem in our area of aid? Do you think the high amount of overtime is a problem for the proper functioning of the fire department? Are your services aware of this problem? Which slopes are being investigated to solve this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u97	Mr Colebunders, I would like to point out that the operational responsibility of the assisted areas lies with the zone commander under the jurisdiction of the zoning college. In many areas, those responsible seek to ensure that the staff members take up their overtime as widely as possible, so that the average working time of 38 hours per week laid down in the law can be respected over a reference period of four months. It is the strength of the firefighter that she can call on volunteers in cases like this. For example, professional staff are partly relieved without any inconvenience to the citizen. On the basis of a risk analysis, the zone may itself determine the minimum occupancy of a post. However, care must be taken to ensure that this minimum occupancy is always guaranteed in order to maintain a structural crew of the vehicles in accordance with the regulations so that they can always be pulled out. The fire inspection therefore makes it clear to the zones that the minimum staffing standards per vehicle must always be respected for interventions with a view to the fastest and most appropriate assistance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u98	Minister, we have held a lot of hearings in recent months, both with the zone commanders and with the trade unions and with people from the field itself. We've been on the premises several times. The overtime is stacking up there. We are aware that people can eventually reach a 38-hour week, and we are asking for that, but the problem will not be solved by focusing only on the minimum occupation. There must be an urgent need for people to join us, that is clear. It'll come back all over the line. How long will we be able to ensure that staff shortages are covered by overtime? At really critical moments, we can only appeal to the volunteers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u99	Minister, storm Ciara hit our country on February 10 and 11. During events like this, fire departments and emergency call stations are obviously particularly solicited. Moreover, it is also in this type of circumstance that the number 1722 is opened, supposed to respond to "less urgent" calls to relieve the congestion of power stations 112. Do you have any idea how many interventions the various fire departments are doing, or even the Civil Protection department, to respond to storm-induced situations? How many calls were handled by power stations 112 as well as other emergency numbers? In particular, how many calls were handled by number 1722? Do you have any idea how many calls on this number remain unanswered?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u100	Dear colleague Thiébaut, to my knowledge, all calls to 1722 have been processed while this issue has been composed more than 50,000 times! For the sake of understanding, I would point out that in this global figure are included the various calls from a single appellant who repeatedly tried to call 1722. In addition, a call does not systematically generate an intervention card. In fact, the operators operate a pre-sorting and do not send to the fire department the requests of callers who, for example, want to be put in contact with their insurance company. Emergency power stations 112 have produced more than 10,000 fire service response cards. Again, account must be taken of the fact that an intervention sheet does not systematically amount to an effective fire department response. The fire department decides whether an intervention is necessary or whether the citizen himself must take care of his situation, for example when a deracinated tree is entirely on the appellant's property. As a result, it is very difficult to identify the number of fire services responding to storm Ciara. As for Civil Protection, it only intervened once for the grating of the roof of a church.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u101	Thank you for all these figures, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u102	Mr President, Minister, as you know, administrative detention has been extended from 24 hours to 48 hours by an amendment to the Constitution and by the Act of 31 October 2017. The latter law provides for a three-year evaluation of the provisions in question, to which my group will naturally pay attention. However, well ahead of this evaluation, we have already had the opportunity to stress that the implementation of this possibility of extending administrative detention periods involves specific adjustments in police stations, particularly from a health point of view. Indeed, places of deprivation of liberty in police stations are not necessarily suitable for the detention of persons for a period exceeding a few hours. As you may know, such arrangements involve costs. Minister, has there been a review of the suitability of places of deprivation of liberty in police stations? If so, what is apparent from such a study? If not, why has not such inventory work been done? Have your services been able to quantify any work required to implement measures of deprivation of liberty for a period of up to 48 hours? Finally, what measures – budgetary or otherwise – should be taken for such possible compliance with standards of deprivation of liberty expected in an advanced country like ours?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u103	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Thiébaut, the Royal Decree of 14 September 2007 on minimum standards for the establishment and use of places of detention used by the police services included from the outset provisions allowing detention beyond 24 hours. The requirements to be met by places of detention for periods exceeding 24 hours were already formulated. In the presence of a complex of cells, a set of more than five cells grouped in the same building, according to the definition of the same royal decree, a shower had to be provided. There is no comprehensive quantitative inventory of the compliance requirements of buildings in this area. An inventory of detention facilities is available for the Federal Police. Upgrades will have to be considered, in particular for installations pre-dated the publication of the applicable Royal Decree. Various compliance projects are either planned or planned for the coming years, in collaboration with the Régie des Bâtiments. In addition, for each new infrastructure project involving a cell complex, the standards established by the federal police and resulting from the above-mentioned Royal Order apply. For the federal police, each project is evaluated on a case-by-case basis, in close cooperation with the Régie des Bâtiments. As far as the local police are concerned, it is the responsibility of each competent local official to plan and monitor the situation. The local police are under the budget of the local authorities for the infrastructure component. It is therefore up to local officials, in consultation with their functional authority, to determine the ad hoc funding arrangements.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u104	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u105	Minister, we know that the Railway Police (SPC) is an essential body for maintaining order and security in our communications networks. At a time when the value of our public transport is a little higher every day, it is necessary to ensure the greatest possible peace and security, for users, for staff at work and for the protection of equipment and infrastructure. Could you, then, clearly indicate the scope of competence of the SSC personnel? In concrete terms, can they patrol and intervene in the vicinity of the railway tracks, outside the docks and station? Can they guarantee the integrity of areas prohibited from access to the public, in particular for the monitoring of SNCB, Infrabel or metro equipment, STIB? What is the organizational framework of railway police personnel for the entire national territory? What is the specific framework of the SSC in the Brussels Region and how many personnel are actually operational, taking into account its evolution since 2016? What is the decision-making procedure, and on the basis of what criteria, apart from the geographical proximity of an external police station, is it decided to set up a police station inside a station? In this regard, is it correct that our three national stations do not each have a police station within their infrastructure? What is the evolution of the number of criminal acts that took place in our country's rail infrastructure and in metros? What is the operational coordination between railway police and public transport companies with their safety and prevention services?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u106	Dear colleague, the Railway Police (SPC) has territorial jurisdiction under Article 3 of the Law of 7 December 1998 on Integrated Police, which in the meantime is well known. The SPC is a directorate of the Directorate-General of the Administrative Police. The Railway Police Act of 27 April 2018 authorizes the SPC to patrol the railway area in accordance with the safety rules in force. I invite you to ask me your second and fourth questions in written form, they ask for important figures. The decision to set up a police station inside a station depends on a number of factors, including the provision of suitable premises by SNCB, operational needs and needs, police capacity, budgetary availability and the agreements of our supervisory authorities. The three national stations each have a police station inside their infrastructure. The operational coordination between the railway police and the privileged partners, SNCB and STIB, is organised on a daily basis for the management of the numerous events and coordinated actions and on a monthly basis to ensure the predictive management of the various aspects of safety. No developments are foreseen in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u107	Mr Minister, in plain terms, do you confirm that there is a police station in the Gare du Midi?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u108	Yes, certainly, as is the case at Gare Centrale and Gare du Nord!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u109	Mr President, Minister, every year the BOB campaigns allow for increased awareness of alcohol-free driving. Our police services are doing a lot of work during this winter campaign from early December to mid-January. According to the latest measures of the Vias Institute at the end of 2019, on average 1.9% of drivers travel in Belgium with an alcohol level above the permitted legal limit. This is the lowest rate ever since 2003. But night checks show darker results with 11% of drivers driving under the influence of alcohol on weekdays and 12.6% on weekends. In addition, the winter season target provided for 300,000 driver checks. However, it seems that police work has finally covered more than 555,000 checks this last winter. It is an excellent collective delivery that calls for the following questions. Minister, have any specific directives been issued this year to our police services, given the evaluation carried out for the previous year's campaign? How was it possible to increase at this point the number of checks outside the one-week extension of the campaign? How many checks were carried out by the police in the 2019-2020 winter campaign? What is the breakdown between the federal police and local police? What is the breakdown of the number of checks carried out by police area in our country? Finally, what is your assessment of this last winter season? What is the objective of the federal police and local police in terms of controls over this object for the rest of the year?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u110	Mr President, Mr Pivin, as was also the case with the BOB campaigns of previous winters, the police services received a circular with some instructions. The aim was to subject 300,000 drivers to a blood alcohol test. Beyond these quantitative dimensions, it has been asked to organise roadside checks on the basis of qualitative indicators, in other words, to ensure that they take place in the right place and at the right time. In addition, the local police areas and the federal police autonomously decide on the capacity to engage in their actions. An increase of 1,825 controls over the previous winter season was noted. This increase can be explained by the longer duration of the campaign, the more frequent use of sampling devices and increased deployment during weekends. A total of 557,602 people were subjected to blood alcohol control, including 68,000 by the federal police and 489,000 by the local police. During these BOB campaigns, additional control actions specifically focused on these issues were organised. These campaigns demonstrate that intensive controls are an essential element in achieving the desired change of mindset in alcohol and drug driving.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u111	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u112	Minister, for many years our police services have legitimately requested direct access to video protection images of our public transportation networks. I have asked several questions on this subject in the Federal Parliament and in the Brussels Parliament since 2010. This situation is becoming ubiquitous. It would become laughable if it did not concern the safety of users and police personnel. You know that public transit companies have installed such important systems in their infrastructure and in their vehicles. For some transport companies, I was told that there was a need for a technical solution; for others, there was a need for a specific mandate from an investigating judge; for others, registration simply did not exist. Meanwhile, police areas continue to seek real-time access to images in order to ensure a shorter response time and effective assistance to patrols and security services of transport companies. Minister, do local police area services have live access to images of De Lijn's video protection networks, STIB, TECs and SNCB? Today, do federal police services and all railway police teams have this direct access? If this was not the case, what steps still need to be taken and by what services?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u113	My colleague, the prospect of being able to exchange data between police areas is most relevant, if not crucial, in the context of police work. It is the guarantee of greater security for citizens and police officers. The Railway Police (SPC) already has real-time access to STIB images and 109 SNCB stations. So far, there has never been any question of providing similar access to images from De Lijn's or TEC's video surveillance networks. These are not of specific interest to the SPC's missions. The Act of 21 March 2007 regulating the installation and use of surveillance cameras does provide that police services are entitled to free access to public transport company images. However, the details of such access must be the subject of memorandums of understanding, in particular on the technical aspects of access, transfer of images and their security. The police areas of the Brussels Region can currently have STIB images for a specific event. This was the case, for example, on New Year's Eve or recently at Bright Brussels. In the current situation, police areas do not have access to SNCB images, but discussions are ongoing between the Region and SNCB. As for the exchange of camera images between police areas, discussions with the Region are almost over, within the framework of the new regional crisis centre. Unless unexpected, the exchange will be possible by the end of the first half of 2020 through the regional platform, at a time when the regional crisis centre will be fully operational.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u114	Minister, I wish we could finish on a more optimistic note. Unfortunately, I see that we are in the middle or two thirds of the way for everyone to have access to all the images. There are apparently still administrative or technical problems to be solved, whether they be protocols, discussions or negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u115	To use the railway vocabulary, we are on the right track and not in a cul-de-sac.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u116	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u117	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55003352C, 55003353C and 55003354C by Mr Vandenput were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u118	Minister, it was recently announced that the Royal Library has a work by the well-known artist Félicien Rops. This work was stolen by the Nazis from the Jewish owner. By the way, I advise everyone to visit the museum Félicien Rops in Namur, it's very nice. Unfortunately, this is a form of art robbery that still comes to light regularly today, more than 70 years after the facts. In addition, there are also many other forms of art robbery. I am thinking of archaeological pieces stolen in conflict zones or ordinary burglaries in museums, including valuable pieces. Not only should we not allow any form of theft to go unpunished, but we must also at all times prevent the proceeds of such thieves from being used for other criminal, or even terrorist, activities. A few years ago, the operation of the specialized federal police cell was reduced. However, hearings in the Senate during the previous legislature show that this has had a major impact on the degree of clarification of art crime. Minister, have you taken initiatives over the past year to better tackle art crime? If so, which one? If not, do you intend to do so in the short term? What initiatives do you think can improve the fight against art crime, taking into account the findings of the report Optimisation Federal Police?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u119	Mr President, Mr Briers, as a result of the optimisation of the federal police in 2014, four central executives were merged into the DJSOC Executive Board, with the Kunst en Antiek cell disappearing and the investigation of art crime as previously carried out decentralisedly in the arrondissements. Meanwhile, however, within the DJSOC a cell of two persons is again active, with the task of feeding the special expert database ARTIST, conducting international cooperation and supporting the investigations by the federal and local police. The federal investigations are still being carried out at the level of the district. It is currently being examined whether the expert database ARTIST can be adapted so that automatic comparisons of images of stolen objects and art objects and goods can be technically performed. This would, on the one hand, make it easier to identify and recover stolen artifacts and, on the other hand, make it more difficult to trade stolen objects. I would add that the crew of such an important entity within the federal police is inadequate and inadequate. I will see to it that this is adjusted because our country has a reputation for avoiding art robbery, healing and other matters connected with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u120	Mr President, Minister, for the sake of communication between our police forces and international police forces, for example Interpol, it is important to do what you promise us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u121	Minister, it is clear that we will not be able to complete the full agenda. There are at least 10 questions on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u122	I would like to answer the questions of those present.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u123	You wish to congratulate them on their perseverance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u124	Minister, for several years now, the emergency area of Picardy Wallonia, like other fire departments, has not been spared by recruitment difficulties. Of the 19 municipalities it covers, with more than 318,000 inhabitants, there are currently 431 volunteer firefighters and 178 professionals. These numbers are clearly insufficient. An additional 100 troops would be required in view of the needs of the relief zone. The causes of these difficulties are diverse: recruitment reserves are emptied each time; too few candidates leave provincial schools; departures are not always replaced; the duration of training – between a year and a half and two years – is too long. One solution could be to grant educational leave, which allows private sector employees to leave work to attend training without loss of pay. Do you have any ideas on how to solve this problem in emergency areas? What do you think of the idea of setting up an education leave? Do you intend to launch a promotional campaign to attract new candidates? Could we not increase the number of candidates on the recruitment reserve? Would provincial schools be adapted to a higher number of students?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u125	Mrs Dedonder, the personnel requirements of a rescue zone are determined by the latter in a personnel plan. This document must be drawn up in compliance with the criteria of the Royal Decree of 29 June 2014 on this subject. In summary, the staff plan should take into account the risk analysis, operational organizational structure and service levels set out in the multi-year policy programme. When a rescue zone wishes to recruit, it shall call for applications. It then constitutes its own recruitment reserves, which in no way depend on fire schools. There is no shortage of professional firefighter candidates. It is for volunteer firefighters that difficulties sometimes arise. In order to support the recruitment of professional and voluntary firefighters by rescue zones, the website jedevierpumpier.be, which has been available since 2016 in the three national languages, is the main focus of the information campaign funded by the federal state. On this site, the citizen can find general information about the firefighter's profession and the conditions to be met, as well as specific announcements regarding the pre-certificate of federal fitness and recruitment organized by the rescue zones. They can consult a catalogue, so that each of them can customize and print their promotional material: posters, leaflets, banners, t-shirts, etc. This equipment is usable to recruit both voluntary and professional staff. With regard to basic, continuous and permanent training, I would like to stress that it is essential to ensure the safety of firefighters and to ensure quality interventions for citizens. As for the specific issue of training of volunteer firefighters, a substantial part of the basic information is already relevant in the context of education leave in the three regions of the Kingdom. For details and practical aspects, I invite you to read the ministerial circular of November 10, 2016 on volunteer firefighters' education leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u126	Mrs. Dedonder, is the answer satisfactory to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u127	Mr President, Minister, thank you for allowing us to stay longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u128	Thank you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u129	Mr President, Minister, last week you mentioned the fact that the number of personnel on the Federal Reserve was, to date, 300, plus 100 riders. You also mentioned that this reserve was normally used for missions accompanying forced returns in the context of asylum and migration policy. You will no doubt agree that both the state of this reserve and the missions, which you believe are entrusted to it, are not such as to make the mayors and the officials of the local police, who not only feel no longer supported by the federal police – which was supposed to be the spirit of the installation of an integrated police structured on two levels – but are also asked to mobilize their men in a "HyCap" which substitutes for this federal support an interzonal solidarity. When it is not a question of coming in support of the federal level... As president of a police zone, I can testify to that. Minister, what is the actual strength of the federal reserve to date? What is its theoretical framework? Can you give us a picture of all the missions in which it has been mobilised since January 2018? You may wish to provide me with these figures in writing. Your predecessor praised DAB as an alternative form of police capacity that could be mobilized. What is the current status of this BAD in terms of the theoretical framework? You have already partly answered a previous question. What about the recruitment plan? You mentioned the possibility of rebuilding a federal reserve worthy of that name. To achieve this objective, what would be the recruitment and budget needs? How many years would it take for police schools to reform such a reserve, taking into account the training needs of other federal police sectors and the training capacities of police schools?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u130	Mr President, my colleague, the Federal Reserve of the Federal Police, in the strict sense, is composed of the Directorate of Public Security (DAS), part of which is in stand-by 24/7. In addition, there is a decentralized capacity in the form of the CIK intervention camp. The organic framework of the DAS amounts to 596 FTEs, following the strengthening by 180 FTEs with EDP credits (interdepartmental). The real picture in January 2020 was 354 riders, 96 of whom were riders. As far as your second question is concerned, a written reply will be sent shortly to the secretariat of the Committee on the Interior. There are currently 1,016 staff in the DAB, including 971 staff from the operational cadre and 45 staff from the administrative and logistical cadre. The DAB still has to hire 569 members of the operational framework and 15 members of the administrative and logistical framework. With regard to the recruitment plan, the DAB plans to complete its missions according to the following forecasts: the Courts and Courts Police for June of this year; the Central Operational Reserve for September of this year; the Nuclear Reserve for October of this year; critical infrastructure, fixed posts and mobile patrols for December; the Royal Palaces for June 2021; SHAPE and NATO for March 2021; the Doel nuclear site for March 2021; and the nuclear sites for Dessel, Mol and Geel for October 2021. The Federal Reserve is responsible for two priority missions, the negotiated management of public space and the support of the federal police's own missions. An evaluation of the organisation, structure and operation of the DAS and CIK is planned, to direct them more towards their main tasks, namely the execution of public order missions with well-trained and organized units. Ultimately, the theoretical framework provided for the Directorate of Public Safety (DAS) and the Task Force (CIK) is sufficient to achieve these objectives. The federal police will implement the appropriate procedures to fill the current real deficit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u131	Minister, thank you for providing me with this timetable, which I will follow closely, as I will probably remain a Member of Parliament, and you Minister of the Interior, for a few more months. At the very least, your answer shows us that the situation is clear and that things are planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u132	Mr President, if I turn my question No 55003440C into a written question, may I have the answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic116x.u133	Yes. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55003416C and 55003417C by Mrs Jadin will be converted into written questions, as will Question No 55003417C by Mrs Jadin. 55003476C by Mrs Kitir. Debates of the European Parliament Debates of the European Parliament 55003411C by Mr Senesael and 55003475C by Mrs Kitir, Question No Question No 5, by Mr Senesael 55003435C and 55003436C by Mrs Taquin, Question No Question No 5, by Mr Thiébaut 55003473C and 55003474C Mr Rigot's 55003494C and 55003495C were adjourned to another meeting.
