ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u1	Mr President, I am going to remove my mask, as you have advocated. The minister should not say that the "Red Brigades" have invaded Parliament. I want to reassure him and my colleagues right away. Minister, it was just a joke. But what brings us together and is the subject of our current debate is important and very serious. The newspaper De Morgen cited eight concrete and serious examples of abuse in the military para-commandos training camp in Marche-les-Dames. One of the testimonies concerns the beatings carried out by three instructors – one does not dream! – to several recruits in 2015. The Namur Prosecutor's Office took the case and proposed an amicable settlement to the three instructors targeted in 2017, but only one of them would have completed the transaction within the prescribed time limits. It is thus pretty crispy or fantastic to see how these behaved afterwards. The other two have recently appeared before the Louvain court, which is expected to render its verdict tomorrow, July 16, 2020. A judicial investigation was also conducted in connection with another case that had taken place during the military training. The facts are repeated. In July 2016, the recruits were reportedly tied up and left in a stable. And this is becoming more and more sordid, minister. The group would then have been divided into two: Francophones on the one hand, Dutch speakers on the other. The recruits of the Francophone group were reportedly insulted and beaten to the head for several hours by their instructors before being released. Six months later, the internal investigation would have given almost nothing. No action would have been taken and justice would not have been informed of these new abuses until a para-commando, having heard of history, did so in 2018 with a sense of correctness and a moral sense that must be emphasized here. I congratulate him for bringing this new scandal to light. An investigation by the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office is currently under way and several witnesses have yet to be heard. According to the testimonies gathered by the newspaper De Morgen, the measures put in place by the High Command are not enough to stop the problem. Minister, the purpose of my question is not to interfere with the ongoing judicial investigations. But these particularly serious facts, as reported – if confirmed – must of course be dealt with by justice and must also be the subject of a political reaction and a global reflection. So, Minister, what was your reaction to these facts, as reported in the De Morgen newspaper, once you became aware of them? What measures are in place or will be implemented to avoid such unacceptable deviations in the formations and, more broadly, in the Defence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u2	Mr President, Minister, we have read the stories. The CHOD was also very clear yesterday. He's in favour of an internal investigation. However, if we really want something to do with this research, we must also look at the situation in our neighbour, the Netherlands. After all, the stories we now read in De Morgen are almost identical to the events a while ago in the barracks of Schaarsbergen. Last week, by the way, punishments were handed down in a Dutch court. This is of course important, but it is also very interesting that the Netherlands has started a committee in response to these cases, namely the Giebels Committee, which has carried out research into a safe working environment within the Dutch Defence Department. The findings in that committee were no different from those in our country. In those barracks there is a fairly closed culture and a high loyalty. That high loyalty is, of course, very good in itself, when soldiers are on mission. However, the report showed very clearly that such situations ensure that there is a very low level of reporting. The Netherlands has therefore examined the reporting system and made some recommendations. I think it would be useful or useful to invite those involved. After all, I have no idea that the situation would be different from that in the Netherlands. They have done this research work in the Netherlands. It therefore seems useful to me to invite those people, to listen to the way in which they have worked and what has emerged from the research. Even more interesting would be that we could also do such research in Belgium. An internal investigation is very good, but when it comes to the operation of a particular service within the Ministry of Defence, it is not obvious that it is necessary to question itself. I have three very specific questions for you. Firstly, are you prepared to look at the way in which the Netherlands has dealt with the situation? Do you want to copy that approach or at least talk to colleagues from the Netherlands? Secondly, who will conduct the internal investigation? How will it be organized? For the sake of transparency, it is very important to know whether we will achieve good results. Thirdly, what is the timing of the internal investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u3	Mr Vandenput is not here, neither is Mrs Jadin.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u4	Mr President, I will not go back to the situation that has already been described by my colleagues and I will address my questions directly. Minister, were you already aware of the existence of such problems in the barracks of Marche-les-Dames or in other barracks? If so, what barracks are they? What have you done to address this? What procedures exist to combat these forms of abuse? Will a reliable and accessible contact point be established to report abuses against para-commando recruits? Will a scientific study of the methods used in the army be carried out, by analogy with the Giebels commission set up in the Netherlands in 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u5	Minister, it had been agreed that the para-commandos would be subjected to ill-treatment, it was investigations that signalled this to us. As we know, the special unit continues a non-light training in order to be able to cope with situations of extreme difficulty. However, Minister, today I wonder about the basis of these practices and the impact they can have on recruitment. Can you inform us about the veracity of the statements revealed by this investigation? What back-up is put in place to psychologically support para-commandos who are subjected to such abuse? Is it possible to estimate the number of recruits lost as a result of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u6	Minister, you were not present in plenary last week during the discussion of the PS resolution proposal on human resources policy. I don't blame you. Mr. Bacquelaine was there. It was probably on hold. I asked you to discuss the incident with me. I understand from the CHOD that an internal investigation has been requested and that such facts are not laughed at. All right, we'll see if they're facts. I have also particularly warned against premature conclusions and accusations. I have often been the victim of this, as have my administration and the police services working on strangers. We have to be very careful with that. I can only give it to you, Minister, as wise advice: always be careful, always speak with two words and let the investigation take place. I understand that's what happened. So I would like to have a little more explanation of how you feel you should deal with the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Defence condemns any abuse of the integrity of military personnel, whether they are in training or not. Although military formations in general and a fortiori para-commando can and must be demanding, physical violence is still excluded. When acts of violence or abuse occur, an investigation is initiated and it is determined whether disciplinary or legal measures should be taken. Regrettably, similar cases have already been reported to the Complaints Management Service and appropriate action has been taken in relation to the abuse of young recruits in training. The hierarchy is aware of this and disciplinary measures are taken against the personnel in question. In other cases, on the basis of article 29 of the Code of Criminal Investigation, judicial detachment in the military has been informed of the facts and judicial proceedings are ongoing. However, it is premature to say that there is a structural problem with the formation of para-commando or to say that the hierarchical line has not done its job. To avoid this, all new teachers are given a deontological briefing by the corps commander. A more detailed briefing is then given by the direct manager of the training, the company commander. Numerous checks are carried out during training in order to be able to adjust in good time if necessary. The shortage of experienced executives in both combat units and training centres does not make it any easier. Especially the lack of an experienced middle frame makes itself felt in the units and training centres. All the facts mentioned in the press articles were the subject of an internal corps investigation after which some were referred to court and others to war. The command thus knows in almost all cases which individuals are involved. Even though every fact is too much, it remains statistically isolated facts. Military candidates leaving Defence are required to complete an exit cell investigation. The Commission collected 1,658 forms for this purpose between 1 January 2017 and 31 December 2019. As a result, 59 candidates reported statements or acts of discrimination or harassment on the part of the executive, among their reasons for departure. This represents 3.5% of exit interviews during this period. In addition, 56% of candidates mentioned statements or incidents of discrimination or harassment by colleagues as their reasons for leaving. This represents 3.4 per cent of the exit interviews during the reporting period. The recorded statements or facts may be physical, verbal, moral or psychological. Unfortunately, an analysis by language regime is not available. Certain incidents reported in the press are already the subject of judicial investigation. For my part, I requested that an internal investigation be conducted by CHOD. The results of this study will be presented at the end of August. Besides, I will visit Marche-les-Dames on September 1st. Defence has sufficient means to report such incidents or abuses. Firstly, it is the role of each chef to listen to and respond to such complaints. The internal investigation will show whether mistakes have been made in this area. In addition, there is a network of trusted persons within the Directorate-General for Health and Wellbeing. The trusted persons shall work independently of the hierarchy and may, if necessary, advise the alleged victims to lodge a formal complaint, both internally and externally, to Defence. An internal denunciation point in our department will be set up shortly within the Complaints Management Service after the publication of the legal texts. At the same time, an integrity policy has been established within Defence with the objective of detecting inappropriate behaviour and correcting it through structural and/or individual measures. This will allow any member of the Defence to report any suspected damage to integrity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u8	Minister, thank you for the answers you have provided. First of all, I would like to point out that at the initiative of my group, during the previous parliamentary term, a resolution had been put on the agenda to protect whistleblowers in the Defence Corps. Without a whistleblower for the events committed in 2016, justice would not have been informed. By extension, parliamentarians would not have been informed, because we would not have read this article in the quality newspaper of De Morgen. We will come back with this motion for a resolution. It is also on the agenda. I think she should benefit from the urgency. If I can hear you well, notwithstanding the mediocrity of the remote connection, 56% of candidates for a position in the army would have already been insulted or harassed. I don't know if I understand. I would therefore like to ask you whether this figure is correct or whether it is an incomprehension on my part. Indeed, I note that in July 2016, according to information between our possession, if there was an internal investigation, there was no information in the courts. It goes without saying that without this whistleblower, there would have been no information in the courts. However, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office considered these to be important information, since it initiated an investigation. I have the impression that a federal prosecutor's office does not start an investigation on the basis of falsifications or communications or information which he considers to be incorrect or far from the truth. Obviously, there is a serious problem. Minister, I note that my colleagues at the PTB and Sp.a. have made a proposal. I think she's interesting. I propose to go further, to consider setting up an even more in-depth study, or even a commission, as in the Netherlands, because – and I will end with that – I would not like Marche-les-Dames to be renamed Marche-les-Drames. It's not an easy pun for me. It is a pun which could prove to be significant and important in the future. These facts undermine all the efforts we are making to restore the defence coat of arms. The thousands of men and women who work there, who behave with dedication, respect for their country, and commitment, who are remarkable people, are being piloried because of unacceptable behaviour by some of their colleagues. These colleagues, if the facts are proven, Minister, no longer have their place in National Defence for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u9	I am disappointed by your answer, Minister, because you condemn the situation, you say that there is a legal investigation going on, and you stick to it. You say that the conditions are not ideal and that it is not working very well in terms of staff, which makes people more sensitive to such matters. Defence is a hierarchical organization and one only needs to have notions of social psychology to realize that such situations can occur at any time in such an organization. I think it is particularly important that we learn from these incidents. You're referring to the trusted people, but we're not gonna find out today if that system is working properly. After all, we have no idea of the extent of the willingness to report. How many cases do surface and how many are hidden? You say you have problems to report to the chief, but what if the chief is the problem? I regret that you are not responding to my proposal to look beyond national borders. After all, good work has been done there. So let us look at a possible external investigation there, because I am sure that ministers in the Netherlands gave the same answers as you do now five years ago. At some point, however, it was enough and it was decided that it really could not go on like this. One then started to look at how one could make things better within the structure. I would therefore ask you to at least take a look at that. I would also urge Parliament to be informed of the current investigation, as we would like to know more about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u10	Minister, like my colleagues, we are not satisfied with your answer. On the one hand, there is this internal investigation that needs to be put in place. It's positive, but there's only one thing that's missing. On the other hand, we can agree with you that it is too early to judge that the problem is structural but also too early to say that it is not. That is why we need to go further. You refer to the existing Complaints Management Service. But as the results are not positive, the way in which this service works must be questioned. If you can also go and find your boss, but he's involved, you have to dare to go and complain about it, and it's really not obvious. We want to highlight the proposal for a reliable and accessible contact point. It is absolutely necessary to discuss this in consultation with the trade unions, because it is also their demand. We regret that you are not joining in our effort to build on the external commission set up in the Netherlands in 2018. We will come back to this committee proposal at another time. We do not want to let this matter go, as far as serious problems are concerned. Finally, in the context of last week's resolution on human resources management, two points of attention are part of this problem: - the link between the budget allocated to human resources to deal with all this; - it would be interesting to gather the opinion of the person of the Defence who meets the military for psychological follow-up in order to see how we could improve things.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u11	Mr. Secretary, I will strike and anoint, first ointments and then hit. Anointing, I say that I am pleased to hear from the new chief of staff that there has been crystal clear communication, including about the incidents. A few years ago, that might not have been the case. It is a good thing that such a case should now come to light and be dealt with immediately. I am also pleased to hear that a deontological briefing is on the way to help in the training of teachers. That is a good thing in itself, but that does not solve the problem. The question whether or not the system works with the trusted persons must be answered. There is also a huge shortage of executives. We can't solve that problem today. It has to do with budgets, among other things. In some areas here in Parliament, money sometimes seems to grow on trees or fall out of the sky, but in the field of defence, the tree is quite bare. In the long term, we will have to do something about it. In that sense, I would have liked to hear a signal from you. This has to do with a shortage of staff, so that teachers are often sent there as punishment rather than from a real task to train new pararecruits. I am sorry that this has not been discussed, but I assume that it may be part of a broader discussion in the future. I am pleased that you are going to Marche-les-Ladies yourself at least soon. I hope you will come back with a great deal of inspiration.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u12	Minister, I feel the same disappointment as some of my colleagues. Indeed, I believe that you must go further in the approach you have mentioned. As my colleagues in S.pa and PTB suggest, I am in favour of their proposal to take an example of what has been done in the Netherlands. Therefore, why not set up a special commission or conduct a study on this issue? I hope that you will be able to provide us with more precise answers about the method envisaged to answer all the questions we ask ourselves. In addition, it will be necessary to verify the facts mentioned. I therefore look forward to the results of the ongoing investigation. I believe that, in the end, the implementation of precise measures, as suggested by my colleague from the S.pa, is part of the process of revaluing the defence we all hold, but also of its structural functioning. If it turns out that there are still problems in some barracks, I think that this needs to be rectified. I am pleased to hear that you will be on site in September and I hope that we will have the opportunity to come back to this problem and to look together at specific and strong solutions as soon as we get back to school.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u13	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. I am satisfied with that, unlike other speakers. I know how things can be in Parliament if certain suspicions, rumours or stories appear in the press. The whole can is then pulled open immediately. Additional committees must then be set up. Perhaps we could also set up a special or additional special committee to investigate the origins of the possible excessive violence and the humiliation. I'm not arguing for that. The hysteria of parliamentary democracy sometimes makes parliamentary democracy particularly weak. Let's take a closer look at what's going on. I've also put my ear to listen to some people from the elite units and paracommand units. It could be true. Let's get to the bottom of this first. If things have really gotten out of hand in a structural way over the last few months or years, you will find a partner in the N-VA to figure them out to the bone. We will certainly be on your side and on the side of the victims. Already calling every recruit paracommand the biggest victim, we are not participating in that. Right is always looking for an enemy, left to a victim. That has only become apparent today. Stop crying like wolves in the woods. Cry as much as you want, we don't cry. First, a thorough investigation is needed. If there were really serious problems, then we have to tackle them. If it isn't, then this riot, like so many times, will also be smothered in the bud. I know what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u14	Mr President, earlier figures were mentioned which were not entirely correct. I would like to correct them so that there is no ambiguity on the subject. Mr. Lacroix asked for clarification of the figures because he might not have heard correctly. I'll call back soon. For the Exit cell, 1,658 investigations were received between 1 January 2017 and 31 December 2019. It was not 59 per cent of candidates, but 3.5 per cent of candidates who referred to statements or acts of discrimination or harassment by executives, and 3.4 per cent of candidates who referred to acts of discrimination or harassment by colleagues. This represents, in the case of discrimination or harassment by management, 59 candidates, and in the case of discrimination or harassment among colleagues, 56 candidates.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u15	That precision wasn't that kind of thing to open a third round. However, that clarification was indeed welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u16	Mr. Chairman, Minister, the press informs us that, due to the lack of personnel, the weak support of the industry that supplied the NH90 helicopters and the significant cost of the aircraft, Defence had made the decision to reduce the flight plan of these four aircraft in their TTH version. This will have no impact on the personnel who will be reassigned to the NH90 marine version or to the Agusta A-109. Minister, the lack of technical staff in Defence is a problem. What actions will be taken to recruit such personnel in the coming years? Are technical schools sensitized on the subject? Once recruited, how can we maintain Defence personnel? Would career contracts not be an opportunity for candidates rather than BDL contracts? The former Chief of Defence, General Marc Compernol, set up a transition group that made it possible to make the decision to reduce the hours of the NH90. Should other decisions of this kind be taken? If so, which ones? Do the procedures for the purchase of helicopters and aircraft now include maintenance costs and the availability of spare parts for helicopters and aircraft? What is the future of NH90s that are more expensive than F-16s when flying?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u17	Mr Flahaut may be in plenary. Mr Bombled, I assume that you have merged your two questions or do you still want to talk about the UAV Squadron base à Florennes?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u18	Mr. President, Minister, since 2002, Defence has been implementing B-Hunter-type drones in Flight 80 UAV Squadron, now based in Florennes. These drones allow civilian surveillance as well as military operations. On 25 June last, the personnel of the drone management unit were informed that it would be put on standby from 1 September 2020 in view of the cessation of drone flights. Minister, why are B-Hunter drones going to stop flying? Starting in 2023, the Florennes base will host the new Skyguardian MQ-9B drones. While waiting for the arrival of these new drones, how will the flight crew managing the B-Hunter drones be reassigned? Is it possible that part of this staff is forced to work elsewhere than on the site of the Florennes base? Will the personnel in question be given priority in order to integrate a new unit that could be created when the new drones arrive?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u19	Mr Minister, I will quickly ask my question. Colleagues have already mentioned the phasing-out of the NH90 in this House, including in plenary. We also had an exchange of views with General Vansina in Kleine Brogel and a number of questions were asked to the new CHOD yesterday. What is important is what this phasing-out means in concrete terms. What does that mean for the staff in the first instance and for the assignments in the second place? What does this mean for our commitments and our credibility towards our international partners? For the rest, I refer to my question which I have tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u20	Colleagues, in addition to the ongoing recruitment initiatives for the Defence as a whole, a Tiger Team was established in 2019 within the Air Component staff to identify actions to address the lack of aviation technicians. This results in several actions, such as the organization of testimonies in technical schools, the organization of air component campaigns in schools or the participation of technicians in defence recruitment campaigns. There is also collaboration with VDAB and Forem. In this context, a preparatory course of approximately nine weeks has been developed within the NCO and Technician Preparatory Division of the Royal NCO School for the optimal preparation of potential candidates. In order to keep the recruits within the Defence, we envisage optimal support for the students during their training through sponsorship and days of learning about life in unity. In addition, multiple initiatives aimed at enhancing the military profession and making it more attractive are either already in place or awaiting political approval to continue their administrative and budgetary control. The majority of aeronautical technicians are non-commissioned officers who, to date, have been recruited exclusively under career status. For these functions, the BDL status (limited duration) is so far reserved for the category of volunteers. The 2019 external recruitment figures for NCOs and aircraft technicians show that the number is insufficient to fill the gaps we have been facing for several years. For the recruitment year 2021, we therefore propose recruitment under both career status and BDL status for specific functions. The transition team, for its part, is responsible for formulating proposals to ensure the continuity of the organization's operations despite the wave of retirements, while maintaining maximum operational performance. Capacity decisions for NH90 helicopters (TTH version) and B-Hunter drones should be considered in this context. In aircraft procurement procedures, maintenance costs - including the costs and availability of spare parts - are important points in the analysis. Several factors prompted us to reduce the flight plan for NH90 TTH helicopters. The first of these factors are the level of industrial support and the evolution of maintenance costs. In 2007, the decision to acquire the NH90 TTH was made in accordance with the strategic choices outlined in the Strategic Plan+ and the Defence Master Plan, in order to meet a need for the Earth Component. Our partner countries - in particular the Netherlands, France and Germany - also chose to purchase the NH90, so the choice of the same weapons system offered operational advantages in terms of technical interoperability (with a common improvement programme) and logistics, thanks to the sharing of equipment. It was therefore impossible in 2007 to predict that industrial support would not be at the level desired by customers and that maintenance costs and future developments would be as high. Unfortunately, defense has tried in vain to mitigate the shortcomings of the industry in cooperation with France for the TTH and the Netherlands for NHTH. Another factor is the availability of aeronautical technical personnel for the maintenance and operational readiness of NH90 TTH helicopters. Defence is conjecturing an increasing shortage of up to 33% of the number of aeronautical technicians in the Air Component between 2019 and 2026. This leads us to make choices. These were developed according to criteria set out by the Chief of Defence. As for the future of the NH90 TTH, I refer to my speech at plenary session 47 on 9 March. The decision is to reduce their annual flight plan to 600 hours per year. This reduced flight plan to a level that, on average, remains slightly higher per helicopter than other NH90 users will have a negative impact on the maintenance activities of this equipment. On the contrary, it will reassign part of the personnel to Coxide to strengthen the NH90 NFH maintenance structure. Staff will also be assigned to other capabilities and priority positions in schools or headquarters. From an operational point of view, this helicopter is generally in support of the Earth Component. The decrease in the flight plan results in a lower level of support. From 1 September, NH90 TTH helicopters will no longer be engaged in external operations. In addition, training activities will be maintained. They resume crew-specific activities in order to maintain their qualification as well as activities in support of exercises organized by the Earth Component. The NH90s will continue to operate from the Beauvechain base. As a result of the reduction in the annual flight plan, the scope of training activities for exercise activities will be reduced. In order to provide support to the Earth Component and the Medical Component, different locations are being studied. The first results will be presented in the framework of the government negotiations. One of the options is a lighter, more mature, more maintenance-friendly device that would eventually allow a uniformation of the helicopter fleet. Defence is always looking for strategic partners and will also test the possibilities in this context. The withdrawal of the B-Hunter was already planned in 2021 according to the Strategic Vision. It has therefore been advanced by a few months, because this weapons system has had a low availability and has not been used in operations abroad since 2006. The missions and training of the B-Hunter drones will no longer be carried out as of 1 September 2020. With the introduction of MQ-9B, this capability will evolve in any case from a tactical capability to a strategic capability requiring other operational and support concepts. This is another category of drones and therefore a new capability for Defence within the Air Component. The MQ-9B system consists of a GCS (Ground Control Station) and two RPA (Remotely Piloted Aircraft). Defence purchased two MQ-9Bs, resulting in a total of two GCSs and four RPAs. The delivery of these two SCMs and the delivery of the first two RPPs is planned for 2023. The following two RPPs are expected to be delivered in 2024. The MQ-9B will be in Florennes in 2023 and is scheduled to be operational from 2025. This two-year period is necessary for the training and training of technical and operational staff. The procedure for selecting candidates for the construction of an infrastructure adapted to the MQ-9B in Florennes is under way. The aim is to submit a specification in September 2020. The contract is expected to be concluded in 2021 and the infrastructure will be received in 2023. The strategic vision and the military programme law provide for a second phase in the purchase of additional drones of the same type by 2029-2030. At present, there are European initiatives including the MALE project. This is indeed one of the potential candidates for a second phase. As far as the Florennes base is concerned, a survey will be organised to ascertain the wishes of the staff concerned. The aim is to allocate staff, taking into account their expertise, wishes and needs of the organization. A majority of the staff will be assigned to Florennes while some have expressed the wish to work in other units. The 80 UAV narrow section will therefore not be able to launch immediately between the two weapons systems. Defense will try to preserve the knowledge acquired on the B-Hunter to the maximum to enable us to efficiently support the maintenance of the new systems from 2023 onwards. A sufficient number of technicians and military personnel in general will continue to be an important focus for Defence in the coming years. In the meantime, alternative maintenance solutions are being considered. The increase in the number of commercial drones is a global problem facing all countries. This complex problem requires solutions that need to be constantly reviewed in the light of the rapid evolution in this domain. Defence does not currently have a complete and effective set of solutions, but the Defence Staff are working on studies to deal with these challenges as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is true that Defence will lose a lot of know-how and experience over the coming years as a result of the retirement of a large number of employees. This will be felt primarily in the NCO category. The first source of recruitment will undoubtedly remain external recruitment, and it will be important to conduct recruitment campaigns and an appropriate and attractive image strategy, as well as a clear vision of what Defence represents. Staff could also play a leading role as Defence "ambassadors", as you mentioned. In fact, they can present the army's trades in schools. Conversely, it may also be appropriate to increase invitations to technical schools at military sites so that students are more aware of the range of opportunities and occupations offered by Defence. In other words, the Defence must be attractive and must know how to sell itself. I also note the collaborations that exist with the Forem or the VDAB. As far as the NH90 helicopter is concerned, it turns out that one hour's flight costs between ten thousand and fifteen thousand euros. At this rate, I think the common sense is indeed to reduce the annual flight plan. I also note that in contractual relations with future suppliers, the cost of maintenance and development has been taken into account. That's a very good thing. Finally, you also referred to the fate of Flight personnel who will be dissolved as a result of the abolition of flights or the resignation of MQ9D flights or drones. You say that, as far as possible, this staff will continue to lend to Florennes for those who have requested it. Others wanted to go somewhere else. I also hear that the delivery times of the aircraft will be respected. Thank you for all the clarifications you have provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for the answer and the degree of detail in your reply. It is painful that for the NH90, the parade of troop transport, a dismantling will be carried out. I think that we should give defence the freedom to make some adjustments, both in the area of the early phasing-out of the B-Hunter and the phasing-out of the NH90. Such adjustments are necessary, but we must ensure that the purchases can be fully profitable. You also referred to the formation of government. There were supposed to be new devices on the table. The meaning, usefulness and desirability of this need to be carefully considered. I can imagine that there are arguments for shutting down the NH90 in view of flying hours and maintenance. I can imagine that this is very expensive and that adjustments are being made, but it is important to remember that tax money is being used. It is therefore necessary to think carefully about how to deal with investment. I am convinced that sensible decisions will continue to be taken in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to suspend the sitting for a moment in order to allow everyone to participate in the vote of name in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u24	Steven Creyelman (VB): I will not speak about the national holiday, Mr President, because I mean a different one than this one. In view of your friendly question, I refer to the written record of my question. On 21 July, Belgium's national holiday is regularly listened to by a military défilé. Given the measures to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, including the famous principle of so-called social distancing, there are undoubtedly consequences for that military défilé. Are there any consequences in this context for the military défilé itself? If so, what are these consequences? Are there any consequences for the participants in the military défilé? If so, what are these consequences? Are there any consequences for the public at the military défilé? If so, what are these consequences? What (additional) measures will you take to prevent the spread of the coronavirus to the participants in the military défilé, on the one hand, and the public, on the other? Julie Chanson (Ecolo-Groen): Mr.Minister, given the context of the health crisis caused by coronavirus, the organization of the festivities on July 21 raises some questions. Indeed, with regard to the traditional parade of 21 July, the Chief of Defence recently declared that the question of whether or not to maintain the program was still not definitively stopped. In view of the recent statements of the National Security Council on the deconfination, the army could again ceremony as early as 1 July next. So, Minister, can you tell us what is happening to the military parade that is usually planned for the festivities on 21 July? If it takes place, will it be organised in an appropriate manner in view of the health context? In terms of organization, do you currently have any parameters to communicate to us? The idea of a particular 21 July parade has been mentioned on several occasions even in this Parliament. Given the health crisis that we are going through, would it not be good if this symbolic date and the usual parade that it entails could honor the heroes of the daily, those whom we have applauded every evening at 8 p.m. since the beginning of the crisis of the coronavirus. Minister, is it possible, in your opinion, for other heroes to march alongside our military, police and firemen who are only used to the traditional parade of July 21? Sammy Mahdi (CD&V): The national holiday is an important day for all Belgians. This moment is of particular importance for the military. To highlight the importance of Defense, for new recruitments and to celebrate the national holiday. Especially in this COVID-19 crisis, Defence has played a very important role and 21 July is a very good time to thank our military once again. This year Corona is unfortunately putting soot in the food. The national holiday will take place in slimming form, which will also have an impact on the Defense Department. That is why I have the following questions for the Minister: In what way will public health be taken into account during the défilé? Will there be room for Defense to interact with civilians?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u25	Will the military be extra grateful for their commitment to one of the biggest health crises that our country has already endured? Philippe Goffin, Minister: Mr.President, the organization of festivities in the context of the national holiday is a responsibility of the Home SPF. Due to the COVID-19 conditions, it was impossible to organise a traditional defilé. The traditional defilé will therefore be replaced by an alternative programme. The exact content of the programme should be questioned at the Home Office. Of course, we will pay tribute to those sectors that gave the best of themselves during the crisis. There will be no audience present during the alternative programme, with the exception of a few guests whose number will obviously depend on the final programme, and will be in line with the measures in force in relation to the VOCID-19. Defence will contribute to a limited extent to the programme. The current COOVID-19 measures will be complied with to the maximum. Steven Creyelman (VB): Minister, I would like to thank you for your rather clear and brief answer. In der Beschränkung says sich zuerst der Meister. I have quoted that phrase three times in the last three days. I guess I keep doing that. The fact is, however, that you and the country remain on France, not for the first time, which did not opt for a very slimming but for a sober version of the national holiday. That can only be favourable to me. Julie Chanson (Ecolo-Groen): Thank you, Minister, for this information. I am pleased that a number of different trades, particularly those on the front line in the face of the health crisis that we have been going through for several months, will be honoured on 21 July, which will differ somewhat from what we are used to. Thank you already for this different organization and programming, of course, but nevertheless important. Sammy Mahdi (CD&V): Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you, but I cannot do this because I am a little disappointed. Of course, I am pleased that an alternative version is going through. In view of the COVID-19 crisis, that is the right approach, but I regret that reference is made to the Minister of the Interior. I think 21 July is also a big day for the Defense Department, a moment to show the public what it's all about. It's for the Defense Department, which has a huge staff shortage, a moment to do personnel policy and warm people up for the Defense Department. I am glad that the Defense Department will also be set up, because it has done important work during the corona crisis. We must not forget that it has been given orders which are not really part of its remit, but which, despite the sometimes flat criticism from Parliament, has handled it correctly, not to mention the masks by name. Defense has deployed itself in all possible areas, including logistics. I would have liked to know what it would look like, because I think it is an important time to properly honor those people, taking into account public health. July 21st is an important moment to warm people up for the Defense Department. Since there's a huge staff shortage, what's the alternative? Are there other ways to answer that? It is a pity that I do not hear that, but I will put another question to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u26	Mr Francken is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u27	Mr President, the choice of the F-35 by Belgium was decided by the Belgian government in October 2018 on the basis of the recommendations of the authorities (...). No criteria were linked to the possible presence of US troops on Belgian soil. There are about 1,800 US soldiers on Belgian soil. Most of them in the framework of NATO parking in Belgium. The Defence has no indication of any possible withdrawal of US troops from Belgian soil. The functions of NATO staffs remain fulfilled. At the 2014 Wales Summit, the then allies' government leaders committed themselves through the defence investment to increase defence spending to 2% of GDP over a period of ten years. These pledges were also entered into by Belgium. Belgium is always taking a positive attitude when NATO is forced to take measures to better arm it against new challenges such as, for example, COOVID-19. The efforts currently being made by Defence and the related growth path outlined by Prime Minister Wilmès after the London Summit should at least be followed. With regard to Russia's potential threat, NATO has clearly stated at the London Summit that it is strengthening its confidence and security policy in the light of the changing security environment. At the same time, the alliance remains open to dialogue and certainly does not seek confrontation with Russia. She's not posing as a threat. The US decision was discussed in the margins at the Defence Ministers' meeting in June. Germany stated that this is a purely bilateral issue between the United States and Germany. Both countries have agreed to inform the alliance as soon as more details are available. The impact on European security and the way in which NATO and Europe will fill this gap will only be able to be analysed in concrete terms. The American bases in Germany are not involved in supporting missions. This is done at NATO level, by NATO headquarters and the Joint Support and Enabling Command. The withdrawal of the Americans will therefore have no impact on the operations in which the country is involved. However, the withdrawal of American troops has an impact on NATO's deterrent posture in Europe. It should be pointed out, however, that the United States has invested more in the European defence than before in the last decade.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u28	Mr President, since the sound was very bad, I will read the answers in the transcript. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u29	I can indeed confirm that the sound was not good.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I think it is more than just a bilateral decision. Of course, the United States takes that decision and informs Germany about it, but it does have an impact on us and on the European continent. We must not go too lightly there. I do not think you have done that either. In any case, I hope that you will continue to make our position clear at all possible NATO consultations. We can say a lot wrong about Donald Trump, but one thing is clear: America has invested more than ever on European soil. At some point in time, we will have to invest from Europe ourselves in a European army from all countries. I hope that will happen in the future, because it has an impact on the whole of our continent. As the Minister has rightly pointed out, the Americans who are here have come here because of a certain history. Today they are also somewhat as a deterrent, as dangers that once seemed very far away to us, are no longer. I can only hope that we do not take too lightly the signal that America is not sending out unjustly and that we learn from it as soon as possible, including at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u31	Mr President, my question will be relatively short, but I think its subject matter is important. Minister, my group has always defended and praised the work of Defence women and men to support civilian authorities in dealing with the VOCID-19 crisis. The question of missions to assist the nation has been central to my group for a very long time. We hope that our committee will soon be able to work on our text on this matter. Recently, in the columns of Le Soir, we read that, according to General Neirinckx, "the chemical and/or bacteriological threat has been neglected. There has been insufficient work on the phenomenon, in particular because it requires longer periods of time. Now, thanks to VOCID, it awakens consciousness within Defence and Public Health. Health risks are well present, and we need a detection capability. It's essential." According to him, this ability to detect requires a change in the way the army works, particularly in terms of training and working methods. For his part, the head of the Medical Component - which, as we know, has been undermined by the strategic vision of one of your predecessors - pleads for the creation of a crisis hospital that would allow, among other things, the total separation of the infected from the others. Minister, in Defence and in collaboration with other relevant FPS and federated entities, is there any ongoing or forthcoming reflection to assess your department's ability to respond to VOCID-19 and, in the longer term, to other health risks/CBRN for our country? Indeed, we are witnessing a slight rebound at the moment. A second wave may be announced. It is therefore time to have a clear vision of how Defence will play a fundamental role - but no longer in improvisation. If it had not been there - like other trades - it would have been Berezina in Belgium. Is an evaluation and adaptation of the strategic vision on the table, particularly in terms of training? Finally, the article in Le Soir referred to the possibility of a "crisis hospital". Is it, in your opinion, an interesting lead?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u32	Mr President, Minister, I will not repeat what my colleague has said. I'll go straight to my questions. As suggested in the press article, in which the general was able to present some of his opinions, is a crisis hospital, in your opinion, conceivable to address future crises or to follow up on the one we are experiencing today? As for health risks, do you already have an overall vision of our capabilities in relation to CBRN risk? Is complementarity with civil protection, which is being trained at CBRN missions, envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this reflection has already begun within the medical component in collaboration with the other components and the support DGs, since the field of CBRN is an area of concern to the whole of Defence. A first step in this reflection concerns the development of a "Rapidly Deployable Outbreak Investigation Team" capability. This capability may prove to be essential both for military operations abroad and to help deal with national crises. The implementation of military capabilities to deal with a national crisis requiring the collaboration of several FPS and federated entities, the reflection on the capabilities of Defence must obviously be extended to its partners, once the crisis is over. As the reflection is only in its infancy, it is too early at this stage to say whether or not the adaptation of the strategic vision is necessary. The Defence Staff and my predecessor have clearly expressed and confirmed the need for a military hospital. A project to carry out a new military hospital has been put on track and a provisional budget planning is under way. The terms of reference for Defence needs are relatively simple to describe. On the other hand, the specific needs in order to be able to use this military hospital in the context of the management of a national crisis as well as the financing are still to be developed with the various SPFs concerned. An interdepartmental approach is needed. Defence is, of course, ready to contribute to this reflection, if requested by the FPS responsible for crisis management at the national level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answers. Finally, there is a minister whose franc, or the euro, falls! When we look at your predecessor's strategic vision, the will was to go even to a suppression or, in any case, a scarcity of the means dedicated to the medical component. Today, however, we see that it is central to the challenges of the future. We had a first shock a few years ago, the terrorist attacks. We saw then that the presence of the medical component was essential to help our fellow citizens, all these innocent victims of these radicalized terrorists. Today, there is the crisis of the VOCID-19 that started in February-March and is far from over. Finally, a capacity for rapid development at the national and international levels is being considered and re-examined. I therefore take your statements as a strong signal and a strong signal that the medical component will become an essential part of our National Defence's future strategic vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answers and your positioning with respect to the medical component. I think that, indeed, we must put this component back at the very centre of our Defence strategic vision. I am delighted to hear the various elements that you have just set out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u36	Mr President, Minister, as early as 17 March, following the closure of the schools, the Ecolo Group expressed concern about the difficulties many parents face in reconciling family and working life. Military personnel, like other citizens, were obliged to keep their children at home during the period during which schools and out-of-school activity centres could no longer accommodate them in optimal conditions. The conditions may have changed a little, since my question was introduced on June 11. I apologise if certain elements are no longer relevant. But I have no doubt that you will adapt your answer to suit your needs. Mr Minister, is it envisaged to introduce a specific parental leave for the period of the coronavirus crisis for military personnel who would like to benefit from it? Are you prepared to propose it in order to preserve certain families from difficulties that might arise in the face of this crisis? This is all the more so since we are aware, with the latest information from the Prime Minister's press conference this morning, that we have not yet fully emerged from this crisis and that it is clearly likely to continue to take care of us for a few weeks or even months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u37	Madame Chanson, my answer will be very short, since the royal decree of special powers bearing No. 42 was published in the Belgian Moniteur of 3 July 2020. I guess you've already seen it. It's all there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u38	Minister, thank you for that great answer. I did.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u39	Indeed, it is no longer really relevant, Mr. Chairman, unless the minister had specific information to give us. Otherwise, I consider them to have been answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u40	I have a similar question, but it also dates back to June. In the meantime, the Minister has involved and informed Parliament. There has also been an exchange of views with the CHOD. I don't have any more questions of my own.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u41	Mr President, Minister, my question too is somewhat dated. In the meantime, of course, we all know who is the successor to General Compernol, namely Admiral Hofman. Yesterday he was a guest in our committee, where he listed some of his challenges and explained his views on them, as far as possible at the moment. For which we thank you. However, I would like to ask one more question. For the record, Minister, could you explain the procedure used? What criteria and directives are laid down in such a procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the term of office of General Marc Compernol as Head of Defence ended on 10 July. The Head of Defence shall be appointed by the King on a proposal from the Council of Ministers for a period of four years, which may be extended for a period of one year. But we had already had the opportunity to talk about it. Article 76 of the Act of 28 February 2007 establishing the status of the military and candidate military forces in the active framework of the armed forces makes no distinction in terms of degree or level. The proposed candidate should be appointed to the Chief Officer's degree. In other words, he must be given the degree of lieutenant general, general major or an equivalent degree. In addition, the age limit is also eligible. The mandate of the CHOD shall begin at the end of the trimester in which it has reached the age limit associated with the degree it holds. The powers of the CHOD are laid down in Article 8 of the Royal Decree of 2 December 2018 determining the general structure of the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u43	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for clarifying the procedure and the criteria.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u46	Mr Verduyckt, Defence regrets the death of 48 soldiers in 2015, 41 in 2016, 44 in 2017, 41 in 2018 and 22 in 2019. In the event of the death of a staff member, all acquired pecuriary rights of the staff member concerned shall fall into the estate, for example the last salary, the holiday allowance, the end of service and the funeral allowance. What is time-bound, such as overtime and flexible duty waiver, is offset as with any other change in employment relationship. All sums shall be released to the next of kin after an obligation to provide information to the tax authorities has been fulfilled. Special interventions shall be provided for the survivors of the military who die during the service, subject to certain conditions. The Social Service of Defence is automatically informed of the death of each military and provides the necessary psychosocial and, where appropriate, financial support to the survivors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u47	It was mainly an informative question. I'll leave it at that for now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u48	Minister, mid-May, you announced the end of Operation Vigilant Guardian. We had already been able to talk about this. I would like us to draw the conclusions of this operation right now. Minister, can you give us an initial assessment of the operation, which will be completed by the end of September? How many soldiers are left on the streets? Have you drawn up a plan for the departure of the soldiers from the streets so that the security guarantees are solid? How best to organize the end of this mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u49	Minister, like Mrs Chanson, I am very curious to see the steps taken between May and July to deliver on the promise to completely extinguish Operation Vigilant Guardian by September. After the hearing with the new Chief of Staff, who also made it very clear why this is particularly important, we absolutely must be able to live up to that ambition. Minister, I look forward very much to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to make a little clarification. In May, indeed, I pointed out that the analysis of the federal police indicated that the presence of soldiers on the street would no longer be necessary from September, but the decision was not taken on that. That being said, I will answer the questions that have been asked to me. The balance sheet of the number of military personnel engaged in support of the integrated police and the associated costs is as follows: in 2015, 325 military personnel were deployed on average per day for a total amount of EUR 18.3 million; in 2016, 1,225 military personnel per day for EUR 64.5 million; in 2017, 1,040 military personnel per day for EUR 55.8 million; in 2018, 585 military personnel per day for EUR 33 million; in 2019, 421 military personnel per day for EUR 25.4 million; in 2020 until 2 June precisely, 357 military personnel per day for EUR 9.3 million at this stage. The total cost of Operation Vigilant Guardian currently amounts to €206.3 million excluding the salaries of deployed military personnel. At the last Council of Ministers, the maximum number of military personnel in support was set at 550. The current actual figure, however, is around 200 troops deployed, to which must be added an immediately available reserve of 100 troops. Defence and federal police have drawn up a takeover plan, which guarantees the same level of security. People are ready to implement the plan. The plan specifies that the integrated police will once again be able to guarantee safety themselves from September 2020, with the exception of a number of nuclear sites in Flanders. The Federal Police Commissioner-General proposed the acquisition plan at SCIV in October 2019 and again in February 2020. However, it still has to be approved politically. The next government will have to decide on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u51	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u52	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your figures. It is always interesting to have them, even though I have said in the past that I am less interested in the figures when it comes to safety. Whether an operation costs us EUR 200 million or EUR 400 million, if that is necessary, then that is necessary and then the amount matters a little less to me. What matters to me is how quickly we will be able to make this phase-out possible. I hear you saying the DOD's ready. That is what the Chief of Staff has literally said: 'We are ready, in principle even tomorrow'. Tomorrow we can phase it out, but by September in itself will not be wrong. So it is effective to wait for a political decision. That is what Parliament, for which there is the government, exists ministers. I wonder what's gonna happen. I fear that if we wait for the formation of a new federal government, and we all know how long such a game can last in this country, we will see that operation drag on for another or two years. I would not wait for the formation of a new federal government to fully phase out the OVG. I think the new Chief of Staff's message was clear. I think the message from the Defense Department has been clear for a long time. This is taking way too long. Defense needs all the military, especially now that she's suffering from such a shortage of personnel. I can only hope that the Minister responsible for Defence, who must therefore look first and foremost at how we can ensure that defence is strengthened in the coming years and not further weakened, will speak the voice of defence at government level and will ensure that the OVG can be phased out as soon as possible, i.e. by September, so that the police can take over the tasks they need to take over. Is that with a transitional period in which Defence can still play a role in a number of crucial areas, why not, but I do not think we can wait for a new federal government to make a decision that will not last for months and certainly no more years for Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u53	Minister, early in the year, pop-up blinds had been installed in shopping malls in order to inspire vocations and increase the number of new recruits by placing the Defence in an unusual context, to the closest to our citizens. For the same purpose, do you not think that it would be wise to re-establish a similar campaign aimed at young people by proposing pop-up formulas, as you called them, in the country's secondary schools? Regularly, schools open their doors as part of events, discovery days, and even organize what some call mini-Sieps. This could be an opportunity for the Defence to present the various opportunities available to students, particularly in technical and professional subsidiaries. It is all the more interesting that earlier, in the debate on the NH90s, we referred to technical occupations. In particular, a colleague from the MR spoke about getting closer to schools that offer technical and vocational options. I am therefore pleased to ask you more specifically about the question and thank you already for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u54	To attract more young people, Defence conducts a significant number of recruitment campaigns. The effectiveness of the concept of a pop-up store is mainly based on the momentary and unique aspect. There are nine information centres in Belgium. The staff of these information centres are already in close contact with the schools in their region and regularly provide information sessions on our job offers. It is therefore possible for interested parties to obtain more information from the information centre in their region. The organization of pop-up stores in each secondary school is currently not considered, given the large number of schools with which the information centres are already in contact and the necessary staff and equipment resources. In addition, this may mitigate the surprise effect of the pop-up store and create a saturation of this concept.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Although I hear the various arguments that you make, I am myself a teacher and have attended essentially technical and professional schools. I can assure you that, during my few years of career, I have absolutely never met any military personnel coming to promote the defence tracks, and I regret that. I know it exists, but I sincerely believe it is not effective. In any case, this may not be sufficiently achieved. Of course, there are many schools, but I believe that Defence needs to be more focused. We have schools with very specific technical and professional profiles, with very interesting options for the technical fields of our Defense. I believe that many students are not aware of the trades that could offer them a very interesting career and future. I think the Defence must be more salesable to these young people who are still in school. I hope, Minister, that you will be able to relay this information to our Defence and that we can have a more effective strategy or scheme to make it better known to students and technical schools.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u56	Mr President, Minister, my question is somewhat dated, as the summer camps are already in full swing. I therefore refer to the written text of my question, but hope for an up-to-date answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u57	Mr President, Mrs Verhaert, Defence cannot expand its permanent range of bivouac areas for youth movements, because in these corona times, given the interpersonal distances, it itself needs more space than usual for the performance of its training and training assignments. The precise organisation of a youth camp must, of course, be carried out in accordance with the measures announced by the government in the fight against COVID-19, which generally leads to fewer groups in the bivouac areas. The bivouacs made available by the Defense Department are published on our website, under the service section. They can be easily requested via the corresponding contact form. Countless youth associations are grateful to make use of this, so there is no need for extra publicity. Youth camps are generally requested well in advance. In practice, the planning for the summer holidays is largely fixed at the start of the krokus holiday. The increase in the number of applications and the search for alternative solutions for the cancelled foreign camps mean that almost everything is now fixed. Often the requested period is no longer available or the requested capacity exceeds the carrying capacity of the bivouac place.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u58	Thank you for your reply, Minister. It is a pity that enlargement was not possible. A lot of youth movements were in trouble at some point. Those pitches are incredibly popular. I hope that we will continue to work on this. In my opinion, the camping sites should be promoted much more, so that every youth movement is aware of the possibilities for using them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u59	Ms. Song, the draft Royal Order drafted by Defence only targets military personnel and now follows the procedure of administrative and budgetary control. The Civil Service is responsible for the possible drafting of a legal text to grant meal vouchers to civilian staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u60	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u61	Minister, the CHOD would have concluded an agreement with the trade unions for a better remuneration for military personnel. The purpose of this agreement is to make the military's bets market-oriented by aligning them on the scales of the police and anchoring the link. To this end, a working group of trade unions, Defence and an external partner was set up, which will determine frameworks or equivalent positions in the police for the personnel categories and degrees of Defence. In addition to a revaluation of wages, VSOA also reports that there has been agreement for a removal allowance, meal cheques, an adjustment of the betting, allowances and allowances for the military from the reserve framework and meal allowances for temporary shipments abroad, aligned with Foreign Affairs. Mr. Secretary, can you indicate the agreement? Exactly what commitment was made by the Defense Department? Is this an effort commitment or a commitment to results? At what time should the working party reach agreement on the equalization of wages? Is the result in any way binding on the temporary government or its successor? Has there been a rough estimate made by the CHOD or your cabinet of the potential additional costs of the exercise and where the amount should be searched within or outside the current budget of Defense? With the equalisation, most of them have an increase in wages, but can this also lead to lower remuneration for certain categories, in line with that of the police, for example with the higher frameworks? Which external partner is involved in the working group and what is his expertise? Can you give the committee an overview of all the agreements that have been concluded? That was announced, but I haven't heard from it since. Is there even an agreement for the DOD? That's the big question. To be or not to be .
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u62	Mr President, it seems that we have the same information, Mr Franken and I. So I will not repeat the same contextualization and will simply stick to my questions. Minister, can you tell us the framework of the agreement and the commitments made by Defence? How long is it planned for the working group to present the outcome of its mission? How will the Defence budget be impacted? What is the time frame for implementing these wage measures? Can you tell us exactly which actors are present in the working group? Can you also tell us whether there could be a regressive impact in this standardization of salaries on the basis of police scales?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u63	Mr Francken, Mrs Chanson, an initial analysis of military wagers was carried out in May 2020 by the Defence Staff in cooperation with the representative trade unions in the context of the increase in Defence's attraction and the improvement of our competitive position on the labour market. The first result is the establishment of an agreement between the CHOD and the trade unions to continue this initial analysis. The so-called agreement translates this (...) It is therefore not an obligation to achieve results but an obligation to strengthen efforts. The goal is to get step by step towards a more competitive wage. The Defence Staff and the trade unions have agreed to call on an external partner who will carry out a study. The results of this study will be discussed with the trade unions at the end of September. The outcome of the discussions will be submitted to the next government. A first step towards a competitive salary is in line with the Defence budget as it is now accepted by the Monitoring Committee. The results of the discussions will ultimately determine the total cost. Contacts for potential external partners are under way, but no decision has yet been taken on this issue. You also refer to specific staff initiatives, in particular the introduction of meal cheques, the introduction of a living/working distance allowance, the increase in wagers, allowances and allowances for the reserve framework soldiers, as well as meal allowances and small expenses for temporary shipments abroad, aligned with Foreign Affairs. These files are indeed in addition to the analysis on the improvement of the military wager. These are staff initiatives that are budget-covered in 2020 and are part of the global multi-annual plan between 2020 and 2024. They were subjected to formal social consultation and continue to follow the administrative and budgetary control process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u64	Minister, I understand that there is no final agreement yet. Was this a mistake, or was it a little quick? Why was it in the paper? Something like that gives a lot of hope to soldiers who have been underpaid for what they have to do for years. They have to perform police duties, but they get paid half the price. For the cheap sidekicks they sometimes find themselves in, it was good news that something was being done about it. I was personally pleased with that and also communicated it with a 'congratulations for a great step forward'. Apparently, that was a little early or too fast. It's not that far, if I understand correctly. We'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u65	Minister, I understand that there is no real agreement to date. Given and knowing what some trade unions have announced in the press or at certain meetings with political groups, I am somewhat surprised. I am finally also a little disappointed with your explanation. Nevertheless, you have announced the deadline for late September, when the unions should analyse the proposals made to them. So I'll be sure to ask you when you get back to school to find out where this case is going to be.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u66	Minister, I have asked you many times about the masks and their distribution. We are now in mid-July and I would like you to inform us about the monitoring of the distribution of masks at pharmacies and about the stock situation, in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u67	I also come back to you after having tabled this issue in a topical debate in the Health Committee. I am therefore surprised to learn that my question has been referred back to the Defence Committee, and I have told Mr. De Backer, since my question was not so much about ordering and delivering masks but rather about the future of these masks. Indeed, we are now learning that of the 12 million masks delivered to Belgium, only 3.5 million have been distributed. There is therefore still a considerable stock. Do you believe that the ten-wave distribution system (depending on vulnerabilities) has been effective? What measures are planned, if any, to ensure that late citizens, who have not received masks, can still benefit from them? Today it is strongly recommended to wear the mask in public places. Could the masks be mailed directly to the persons concerned? What are you planning to do with the stock of undistributed masks?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reference given by Avrox concerned an invoice of April 2020 for the delivery to a private company of 1 million masks of the same type as purchased by Belgium. For your questions regarding the possible criminal investigation, please contact the competent authorities, as well as your questions about the Federal Internal Audit. The indication of the certification on the manual has been corrected. The Court of Auditors' investigation is now over and the result was delivered to the Chamber last week. The result was as follows: the specifications were correctly applied and all tenders were treated equally. There were no shortcomings in the grounds for exclusion, qualitative selection and administrative and technical conformity. The invoices were paid in good time and the fines and penalties for late delivery were correctly withheld. The many accusations and insinuations, Mr Freilich, were therefore all unjustified, as was shown by a judgment of the Council of State. In addition, an independent study of Test Purchase stated that Defence has purchased masks of good quality. Mrs Merckx, if you wish to have a state of affairs on a possible investigation, I can only refer you to the body concerned which might be involved in this investigation. Mrs. Song and Mr. Rigot, the distribution of masks is done through the pharmacy chain, which is the most efficient in our opinion. The three associations (APB, OPHACO and FarmaFlux) created a temporary association represented by APB. Defence has entered into a contract with this temporary association as well as with the twelve distributors and all stakeholders will be paid for their services. The Defence has been responsible for distribution to the twelve distributors who are responsible for distribution to pharmacies. Age distribution prevented an influx of people at the same time in pharmacy. Currently, approximately 3.5 million masks have been removed from pharmacists. The use of postal services is not an option because each mask should be packed individually, resulting in a huge workload and additional cost, in addition to the ecological footprint. Prolonged distribution in the coming months is still possible, but this must be agreed with all relevant partners. If necessary, Defence will recover excess masks from distributors and place them in the strategic stock. Following the new measures taken by Belgium in relation to the wearing of the compulsory mask reinforced in a number of places, I invite you to go and remove the masks that our fellow citizens would not have gone to remove, in order to protect themselves and, above all, the others. Community masks have the virtue of protecting the people you are in contact with.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u69	I notice that Mrs Rohonyi is also logged in, so I will also give her the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u71	Thank you Minister, we will soon meet again in our beautiful Hesbaye, with or without mask, but with the pleasure of meeting you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u72	I thank the Minister for his answers. However, I regret the fact that pharmacists have made this observation about these masks, namely that clients do not come to pick them up for two reasons. First, they arrived far too late and citizens had already had to buy them by themselves or through their communes. Then there was contradictory information about their maintenance but also their packaging, which is really not optimal. We have spent millions of euros on masks which, because of this delay and this information, have only passed for a quarter of them. In the context of the budget deficit and the obligatory wearing of the mask in closed spaces, this is regrettable. I hope that by intensifying our awareness-raising efforts, citizens will regain confidence and seek their masks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u73	Mr President, Minister, as you know, my group has always criticized the outsourcing of a series of functions within the Defence, some of which may even be very critical in terms of budget, humane, security and the "symbol" of an essentially regal function that delegates a significant part of the functions it should have assumed to the private sector. Minister, this is not the first time that I have asked you about this, particularly with regard to the monitoring of military quarters. Thus, I was able to read in the press that the Belgian Competition Authority has asked your Ministry for information on the invitation to tender and the award of contracts for the supervision of barracks. An investigation seems to be under way as to whether the invitations to tender were tailored to the three major suppliers (G4S, Securitas and Seris). Minister, do you confirm this information? What follow-up did you give him? Finally, can you give me an update on the outsourcings already implemented, or under project, within your department and indicate whether an evaluation is planned for them?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u74	I would like to say that the plenary will start again and that a vote will take place at that time. I shall therefore suspend the committee meeting again in a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u75	Mr President, Minister, I will be very brief. The thrust of my question was something else. Apparently there is also a problem on the Belgian market with the big security players, in which Defence might be involved and of which it would even be the victim. Of course, that's what happens with these big contracts. Then it could go wrong. I have asked a number of questions about this. I refer to my written presentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it would be useful to suspend the sitting for another five minutes, since there is another vote in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u77	Mr President, I can inform you that I am available to the committee until 5.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u78	Mr. Secretary, thank you. We'll meet until 5:30. I give you the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u79	As part of an investigation into behaviour limiting competition in the caretaker services sector, Defence was contacted by the Belgian Competition Authority (ABC), which formally requested it to provide information. Defence is committed to cooperating fully with the ABC. The necessary responses have already been provided to the CBA and Defence is at the disposal of the CBA to provide the requested support. The Defence has been informed of a complaint but is not aware of the nature of the complaint. For this, please contact the ABC, which is responsible for this. Mr Verduyckt, there are no indications of price fixing in the Defence contracts. All the usual measures have been taken and tenders have always been thoroughly verified and evaluated. The framework agreements in force shall continue to be subject to the same prudential measures. Defence awaits the results of the investigation and will, if necessary, take appropriate measures. Mr Lacroix, four contracts are under way for the outsourcing of the guard of the districts of Heverlee, Melsbroek, Poelkapelle, Campus Renaissance and Rocourt. The total amount of these contracts for a four-year period is EUR 25.2 million. A public procurement contract is being prepared for the outsourcing of the guardhouses of Eupen, Elsenborn, Meerdaal and Burcht. Another was planned in 2021 for the Arlon and Beauvechain districts. Mr Verduyckt, for the current contracts, a saving of 19% compared to the cost of surveillance with military personnel was achieved. In view of the general decline in the effectives, the replacement of the military workers who retire in the coming years is no longer possible. In view of the large outflow of personnel, the outsourcing of the watchkeeping service is therefore no longer a budgetary issue, but a de facto necessity to continue to ensure the core tasks of Defence. Mr Francken, the current investigation concerns only the oversight contracts involving the companies Securitas, G4S and SERIS. Additional measures may be taken on the basis of the BMA's conclusions if necessary. Protection Unit never took part in a government contract from the Defense Department. It has recently taken over FACT Security, which at the time submitted offers for various outsourcing contracts of the guard. In the current procurement for the outsourcing of the watch in the quarters at Meerdaal, Burcht, Eupen and Elsenborn, the company has been selected and meets the conditions to submit a tender for the plot Eupen-Elsenborn. FACT Security continues to exist as a company and the acquisition has no influence whatsoever on the progress of the public contract for the time being. No errors were made by the contracting authority during the award procedure for the public contract in Heverlee. The then complaint of FACT Security does not affect the project of outsourcing the guard. If the facts are proven, substantial penalties may be imposed by the Competition College, including a fine of up to 10% of the annual turnover worldwide, financial penalties for the persons concerned and prison sentences. Defence will, where appropriate, consider the measures to be taken under the legal means available to the contracting authority in accordance with public procurement legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u80	I thank you for the clarifications you have given me, but they do not reassure me at all. You have, in fact, announced that additional outsourcing of military quarters such as Eupen, Elsenborn, Arlon or Beauvechain was under consideration. We are really experiencing a surreal situation in Belgium: savings have been made in defence in terms of human resources, due to an important phenomenon of attrition, which I recognise but which is due to an unhealthy climate in the Defence because of personnel restrictions. It is therefore surreal to note that our Defence, which is supposed to protect our country, entrusts private guards with the task of defending its own installations! But where are we going? In symbolic terms and in terms of authority, our state really seems to be on the brink of bankruptcy. For us, the situation is very clear: we voted a resolution on human resources policy in National Defence and explicitly considered that outsourcing could only take place on a temporary basis. Similarly, it was anticipated that these outsourcings would be subject to an evaluation and could only be extended after the evaluation. We believe that there is an urgent need to reverse this process of forced and constrained outsourcing, which does not bode well for the character and symbol of our country. Until then, I wish you a well-deserved holiday. You certainly deserve them! And I thank you for having responded to all the requests of Parliament. You're one of the few ministers to do it. You deserve at least this friendly signal during pre-departure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u81	Mr. Lacroix, I may pass through your beautiful town of Wanze. Don't hesitate to come to my house too!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u82	You're welcome!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u83	I have the impression that we urgently need to visit the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u84	I've heard the Minister's answer. That was enough for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u85	I'm surprised by the PS's response, which says outsourcing means defense bankruptcy. The party was responsible for the file for decades. She was part of the government and sometimes even supplied the Minister of Defence, but they kept saving on Defence. Finally, the party is now saying that the surveillance of some barracks by G4S and Securitas means it's insolvent of Defense. Well, that is, of course, the result of the continuous policy of savings in the defence sector. Defence was considered to be a kind of sandbag filler, which would then have to provide some help to the nation and, above all, not too much operational work for the rest. I personally think that is a strange and not really consistent statement. We have a different opinion. We believe that outsourcing is necessary for some of the streamlined tasks, just because we are so deep in the valley. We have invested in good material for the different components. That will be delivered in the coming years. The major challenge lies in the next few years in terms of human resources. For us, this does not mean recruiting staff to cook and guard something. That can best be done by others. We must deal with a modern army, which is focused on its core tasks. I have less problems with outsourcing. For the PS, it's probably an ideological issue, not for us. We can discuss outsourcing, not because we are neo-liberals or ultra-liberals, because we are not, but because we are realistic in our approach. That is where we stand apart. We have a different opinion on this, but I think that Mr Lacroix's remark that outsourcing is a failure of the defence industry, even though it has been caused for a part of itself, is a bit of a turnaround. Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. My last question about the reserve will no longer be addressed. I have another appointment, too. I'll leave you to it, ladies and gentlemen. I look forward to again crossing swords in this cozy committee from September.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u86	You spoke only about the PS, Mr Francken, and I could not possibly give Mr Lacroix the floor, but since you explicitly mentioned him at the end, he will now be given the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u87	Mr. Chairman, I finally had the impression that I was the Minister of Defence, to whom we were making a reply. I'm not a defense minister! I simply explained the Socialist Party's reservations in this case, and I recalled the terms of a resolution that we voted for. I would remind Mr Franken that, under Minister N-VA Vandeput, there have been 1.7 billion savings in defence. They were mostly done in human resources. I would like him to take this into account instead of throwing a diatribe against the Socialist Party and my person. We would benefit from this as a parliamentary exchange. However, I also wish him a good holiday.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u88	Mr President, Mr Cogolati, the Belgian Air component is not responsible for the specific protection of nuclear power plants. On the other hand, it has the task of ensuring safety throughout Belgian airspace and for this purpose has a control centre, means of detection, identification and tracking of aircraft in that area. The Tihange and Doel power stations are part of a list of prohibited flight areas for which the control centre is monitoring. In the event of an intrusion into an area prohibited by a recreational aircraft, a military aircraft, a commercial airliner or a cargo aircraft, the Defence responds directly by sending messages on safety or emergency frequencies to the aircraft concerned. In addition, in the event of a RENAGADE-type incident, the control centre directly informs the National Crisis Centre, which informs the nuclear power plant concerned. Finally, if necessary, the Benelux Quick Reaction Alert (QRA) can be implemented within minutes in order to intercept the aircraft in violation. In the event of an intrusion of a drone into a prohibited area and to the extent that detection is possible, the Defence will contact the federal police to intervene. On the basis of the OCAM threat analysis and by decision of the National Crisis Centre, Defence could install a Joint-type monitoring and temporary response device, as known for securing high-visibility events, to protect a site such as Tihange. The tasks of ground surveillance, upstream intelligence on the protection of nuclear sites and physical protection of sensitive areas are not part of the defence missions. The Benelux QRA is composed of two aircraft armed 24 hours a day, which can even enter French airspace under the Treaty of QRA Benelux France to carry out tactical actions under the command of the French authorities against RENAGADE-type threats.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u89	Minister, thank you for that answer. We can see how prepared the Belgian armed forces are to deal with this kind of risk. It would be a good idea to extend the ban on overflights to Tihange and Doel. We know that there is already a total ban on overflights for the palaces of Laeken and Ciergnon. Today, we realize that beyond a kilometre, it is quite possible to fly over a nuclear site as sensitive as Doel or Tihange. It is therefore more than time to ban again - until 1994 - the overflight of these power stations so that Defence can also do its job if necessary and protect the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u90	Mr Bombled, this museum is a private initiative. The World Heritage Institute has lent a few pieces of collection to the ASBL, which holds this museum. The vast majority of the pieces in the collection belong to individuals or directly to the ASBL. The collection pieces of the WHI will be recovered or stored by the ASBL for the duration of the loan depending on the future of the loan. The ASBL cannot stay in its current facility and since there is no room in the premises of the WHI in Bastogne, the ASBL is looking for another location.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u91	Mr President, I thank the minister for his very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u92	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Bombled, the MQ-9B system consists of two drones and a Ground Control Station (GCS). Defence purchased two MQ-9B systems. This makes a total of two GCS and four drones. The two GCSs and the first two drones are scheduled for delivery in 2023. The other two drones are scheduled for delivery in 2024. According to the latest information received during regular contacts with the manufacturer, the schedule should be well respected. The procedure for selecting candidates for the construction of an infrastructure adapted to the MQ-9B in Florennes is under way. The aim is to submit a specification at the beginning of September. The conclusion of a contract is expected in 2021 and the receipt of an infrastructure in 2023. The dossier on the construction of an infrastructure adapted to the F-35 in Florennes and Kleine-Brogel will soon be presented for approval to the Council of Ministers. The contract is expected to be concluded in 2021. The infrastructure must be ready for Florennes at the beginning of 2025 and Kleine-Brogel at the beginning of 2027.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u93	Mr Minister, thank you for the clarifications you have provided regarding the procedures under way and compliance with the specifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u94	The SGRS is aware of a general Russian support to the Taliban in Afghanistan and confirms a possible Russian interference in relation to the more specific facts you mention. So far, only U.S. military personnel have been identified as victims. In concrete terms, the information in our possession, from open sources, is that only an incident in early April 2019 can possibly be linked to this premium program for attacks on NATO personnel, namely an attack on an explosive vehicle against a US convoy that led to the death of three US soldiers. There was no bilateral approach to Russia.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u95	Minister, I believe that this Russian support for armed attacks and attacks against NATO forces in Afghanistan is very serious. If these attacks were to pose a risk to our Belgian troops on the ground in Afghanistan, I would really invite you to react. I am particularly concerned about this information, which is confirmed by the SGRS.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u96	I am glad to be able to raise this important issue. No, I did this question in response to an incident in Ostend. I am particularly concerned about the fact that there is a very fragmented policy in this area. Some municipalities forbid it, others don't. I wonder whether Defence cannot play a role in giving advice to the municipalities, so that they can get started with it, rather than using different rules everywhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u97	Mr Verduyckt, so far the DOVO has dealt with 20 to 25 applications in 2020, but magnet fish is not the responsibility of the DOVO. The service should therefore not follow specific orders of this type. The local authorities do not always inform DOVO in the case of magnetic fishermen. This information in itself does not change the assignment itself. It is therefore not possible to give a correct figure of the number of ammunition. It can be said, however, that there are approximately three applications per week for magnetic fish. Ammo is fished in all the places where earlier battles were during World War I and World War II, especially in the Leie and the Scheldt. The DOVO is not competent to express itself about whether or not to ban the phenomenon of magnetic fish, but has already given some advice on magnetic fish in the past. On 24 October 2020, the Onroerend Erfgoed Agency will organise a metal detection day for accredited metal detectors. The DOVO will give a briefing on the dangers of magnetic fish, with the emphasis on the danger that the ammunition will always be moved, which means there is the risk of accidental explosion. The DOVO therefore advises never to touch any ammunition found.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u98	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is indeed important to look at how people get this information well. It was General Marc Thys who said: the question is not whether, but when an incident will take place. It is a small activity, but we must ensure that nothing goes wrong with it. It will be an exciting hobby this summer that I will practice with my son. I wish everyone a happy vacation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u99	Mr President, Mrs Chanson, whether it is the terrorist attacks or the VOCID-19 pandemic, these crises demonstrate the need for a more integrated cooperation of all national actors. There is an integrated approach involving the FPS Foreign Affairs, Development Cooperation and Defence, the so-called comprehensive approach used in actions outside Belgium. An integrated approach to national safety and security issues would be good. It begins, of course, by clearly stating what we represent as a society, what our values and interests are and how to defend them. Beyond this framework, the integrated security and defence strategy must be pragmatic and provide the relevant actors with the principles governing such cooperation. Thus, this strategy should at a minimum include the area of responsibility of each actor as well as the mechanisms of cooperation, governance and financing. So far and to my knowledge, there has not yet been an initiative to put the actors around the table. The National Security Council outlines the policy to be followed by intelligence agencies. Beyond Defence, the minister is present. In addition, when the agenda so requires, the Head of the General Intelligence and Security Service may also be invited. The composition of the latter was not reviewed during this legislature, but it could be re-discussed when a new government is put in place, taking into account the position expressed by the general and myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u100	Minister, thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u101	In 2015, Defence incorporated 143 people out of a total of 147 vacancies for technical profiles. In 2016, 142 people were incorporated for 175 vacant places. In 2017, 122 people were incorporated for 220 vacant places. In 2018, 181 people were incorporated for 240 vacant places. For the 270 vacancies in 2019, there were 158 people incorporated. With regard to the possibility of training in defence at the age of 16, given the significant budgetary restrictions that have been in place for many years, Defence no longer has the means to reopen such schools or training centres. Moreover, given the legal provisions at the national and international level protecting child soldiers, it is not the intention of the Defence to open such institutions. Defence is fully moving towards the creation of a Defence and Security option in the third level of secondary education, in order to prepare young people for selection tests and defence trades, in firefighters, in the police, as guardians or prison officers. In 2009, at the initiative of the Internal FPS, a seventh year Assistant for the Prevention and Security Professions (AMPS) was created to meet the needs of the police and the lack of guarding officers. This training allows participating students to get to know various trades related to safety while offering different qualifications. Originally, Defence had not enrolled in this project, so the objective of this training is not to prepare students for the selection tests for the defence trades. As a result, there are very few feedbacks from this training. In addition, no formal evaluation has been conducted to date. Regional training centres were implemented in early 2019. This decision was made on the basis of good results of four tests carried out in 2018 by three units. Four additional regional training centres were implemented in 2019 and five in 2020. In total, we now have twelve centres. There is a structural plan for investment in Defence infrastructure. In addition to improving the heritage, the plan also incorporates the infrastructure needs resulting from the acquisition of new weapons systems as well as the needs resulting from regional training. With respect to candidates, those who leave Defence are invited to complete an investigation that allows us to determine the main reasons for departures. In most cases, it is the difficulty of training, obtaining another job or the difficulty of adapting to military life. Various initiatives have been undertaken to facilitate the mobility of military and civilian personnel within the various federal, regional or local departments in order to obtain a civilian position in a federal department.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u102	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his comprehensive response and wish him a pleasant holiday.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u103	Minister, thank you for these figures and for your answers to all my questions, and I wish you a good holiday in my turn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we can now close this sitting. Mr Mahdi asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u105	Mr President, I should have liked to have had an answer to my question No. 55007950C. Can I receive the answer in writing? I also take this opportunity to thank the Minister for the answers we always get and for his constructiveness at all committee meetings. I noticed that the Minister was welcome in many Walloon cities, but he is also welcome in Vilvoorde.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u106	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u107	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Mahdi's 55007950C is converted into a written question. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join in the many words of thanks. The last few weeks have been tough for our committee. We were almost in each other's bubble, if I may put it that way. We did a good job. Hopefully we can all enjoy a virtuous recess. I wish you, Minister, that too. I want to thank you for the good way we've worked together in the last few months. I hope we will see each other again in September. Whichever government conditions are, we'll see, because I don't have a glass ball. In any case, I wish you a pleasant vacation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u108	Mr President, I would like to say that my answer to Mr Vicaire's question is very brief. That question may still be dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u109	Mr President, I propose to turn my questions into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u110	Debates of the European Parliament 55007729C, 55007730C and 55007732C of Mr Vicaire are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u111	Mr President, I would like my question No 55007876C to be turned into a written question. Could we not get in touch with the members so that those who want a quick answer can get it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic246x.u112	Mr Dallemagne, when someone has an oral question and asks for it to be converted into a written question, that is not a problem. However, I note from your question that it is combined with a question from Mrs Chanson, and that must also be authorised by Mrs Chanson. Debates of the European Parliament 55007876C and 55007839 by Mr Dallemagne and Mrs Chanson will be converted into a written question. This concludes the meeting.
