ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u2	I have received a motion from Mr Georges Dallemagne and others to add the motion for a resolution (Mr Georges Dallemagne and Mrs Els Van Hoof) on Taiwan's place on the international stage (Nos. 1206/1 to 8) to the agenda. I have received a motion from Mr Georges Dallemagne cs to add the motion for a resolution (Mr Georges Dallemagne and Mrs Els Van Hoof) on Taiwan's international position (nrs 1206/1 to 8) to the order of business. I propose that this item be added to the agenda in a consensual manner, provided that each group agrees to limit itself to a speaking time of 5 minutes. Provided that each group confines itself to a five-minute speaking time, I propose that this item be entered on today's agenda by consensus. In the absence of consensus, I shall vote on the request for addition before the start of the vote on the proposals and drafts. If there is no consensus, I will vote on the request for an addition before the start of the votes on the legislative proposals and draft laws. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. Then we shall deal with that point after the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u3	Madam Prime Minister, welcome to the last plenary session in the hemisphere for the recess, which will not be a real recess for everyone. Not even for us, I suppose.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are going through a very difficult period. We have demanded enormous efforts from our people. They delivered them, too, and there was light at the end of the tunnel. We are looking for holidays and contacts with friends and family, but the last few days the number of corona infections is rising again. We must avoid a second wave at all times, because its impact would be detrimental to our economy and our population. We need to play the ball shortly so that we do not see our regained freedom slip away again. The National Security Council has given a good signal. Last week, there was already a decision to impose mouth masks in shops, among others, and there were no further relaxations yesterday. There is only one clear message today, we must all regroup and avoid a second lockdown. We also know how to do this, namely by smothering infection fires locally. Since March, our country has been in a federal phase. Local authorities must follow the measures taken by higher authorities and cannot depart from them. If a mayor's decision is taken today to force mouth masks, for example, in the town hall, that is not allowed. That's the world upside down, isn't it? However, as mayor, I know that local authorities are very well placed to act quickly and efficiently. Mayors should be able, if contamination rates increase, to tighten measures locally, to ban joint training, to force mouth masks everywhere and even to close certain institutions if necessary. To do so, we need to give our local authorities the tools, the dates and the powers to intervene in time. Madam Prime Minister, I have three questions for you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u5	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, we are worried because the virus is still there, because the numbers of infections go back to Belgium and elsewhere, because the virus is evolving and affecting – it seems – a younger population. We are concerned because the virologists warn us about the risk of a second wave, but also because the relations between these virologists and your government are not fixed and there are more disagreements every day. We are concerned because it cannot be said that the federal government's management of the pandemic has been optimal so far. Unpreparation, lack of adequate equipment, exhaustion of medical personnel as a result of the cost-saving measures imposed on them. We do not claim – we have never done so – that everything is easy. But again, unclear or even contradictory messages are sent concerning the orange or red zones, with several modifications, in the same day, of information about what is allowed or not on the Foreign Affairs website. Citizens are lost. Measures appear too harsh, particularly with regard to the cultural sector, while others are not sufficient, as is the case in other sectors such as shops where the obligation to wear the mask has been far too late. Prime Minister, we are concerned and we ask you not to lower your guard. Our country must be ready for anything. He must be ready to deal with a second wave, new infections, an evolution of the virus, problematic holiday returns. To avoid the worst, it is necessary to prepare for it and to do everything necessary to prevent it. However, we do not have the impression that this is sufficiently the case. Citizens' membership is necessary if the virus is to be eradicated. This commitment and solidarity have allowed us to go through the last few months. To maintain them, more anticipation, preparation and, above all, clarity and accuracy of decisions are needed. Prime Minister, what is the mechanism planned this summer to monitor the evolution of the pandemic? When will the National Security Council meet again and with what agenda? What will be done in the event of a resurgence of the pandemic, because the virus will not take a vacation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, the number of corona virus infections in our country is increasing. Everyone's holding their hearts. General practitioners, experts and a lot of other people are worried. The first question I would like to ask is what the precise situation is now. After all, since June 21, Sciensano no longer gives daily figures, but only weekly averages, making it difficult to get a precise idea of the rapid increase in the number of virus infections. Yesterday, therefore, we asked again for daily reporting of the figures of Sciensano. That's what experts are asking for. Madam Prime Minister, are you committed to reporting these figures on a daily basis? The second big question that everyone is asking is, of course, whether we are ready for a second wave and whether there is a plan. In the last few months, we've seen chaos. There was no pilot in the cockpit. Although many ministers have met a great deal, few concrete decisions have been taken. Some ministers did not know exactly what they were responsible for. Madam Prime Minister, will you deal with that and ensure unity of command? Is there gonna be better coordination, or are we gonna keep going after the facts? My third question concerns the preparation for the second wave. I wonder if, for example, we will have enough test capacity. I was surprised that on 15 July, four months after the start of the corona crisis, I read in De Standaard that it is going to be a fight to have enough tests in the autumn. Minister De Backer says that we are at the top of the list of tests, and you have also declared that, but he says that it is going to be a fight to have sufficient test capacity by the autumn. Madam Prime Minister, I summarise my questions for you. Are you committed to a daily reporting of the figures? Do you have a clear plan to tackle the second wave?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u7	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing what is called a "paradoxic injunction". On the one hand, the holidays arrived, accompanied by a desire for relaxation and departure abroad. On the other hand, the numbers of the virus go back dangerously. The combination of these two phenomena can produce an impression of blur and insufficiently clear messages. My question concerns precisely the journeys and returns of the red or orange zones. For the former, a form available in English is distributed to passengers on flights to Belgium. It must be completed on board and deposited at the border control post, otherwise access to the territory is not allowed. This is a first step in the right direction, even if no specific procedure is provided for areas classified as orange. In addition, the Foreign Affairs website was modified this Tuesday, indicating that travellers returning from an orange or red zone were asked to be screened and quarantined – actions that fall within the jurisdiction of the Regions and Communities. These initiatives are not subject to any obligation. The civic sense of travellers and citizens, which is indeed high, is called for. However, there are already double test procedures: on this basis, we test on arrival and, again, a few days later. In this way, uncontaminated persons do not apply quarantines and can therefore work and not be deprived of income. Madam Prime Minister, you will certainly agree with me that a centralized health control process should be necessary to send a single and clear message from the federal government and the three regions. So, could you please let us know whether forms similar to those distributed to travellers from countries classified in the red zone will be provided for those from an orange zone? Is it planned that these forms will also be available in all three national languages, and not only in English? Are they being considered for distribution to people travelling by road? Is there any consultation with our neighbours on this matter? Finally, is the systematic and mandatory testing of returning vacationers being harmonized between the federal and the regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u8	Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the heart of the summer in mid-July. It is the time of relaxation for many Belgians and a period that has rhymed for years with lightness, celebration and carefreeness. But for the virus, there are no moments of relaxation. COVID-19 doesn't take a summer vacation. Yesterday, at your press conference, you awakened some sleepy consciences, reminded of reality, called for responsibility and collective intelligence. We are aware that the truths of yesterday are not those of today. At each National Security Council, during your various communications, you have always reminded us that no freedom, no matter how precious, is acquired. Each decision is subject to reservation and depends on epidemiological factors. Those factors don't look good. The number of infections is rising again. The reproduction number is again above 1. In order to continue to enjoy our freedoms, it is important that each of us adopt the six golden rules that are now part of our daily lives. You may leave your barn, but certainly not too crazy. Of course we are concerned about the sectors covered by the fifth phase of the exit plan, think of all companies in the event sectors such as discotheques and organizers of fairs and fairs. We are aware that this unpredictability is very difficult for the sector. We would like to express our support for them. Madam Prime Minister, could you give us more details on how the next few days will unfold? We know that a National Security Council will be held next week. Will further advice be planned, if it is possible to plan in this context? With regard to phase 5, you have specified the postponement of phase 5. Its activation will only take place in the light of the evolution of the health crisis. Do you confirm that? Do you have any other information?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u9	Madam Prime Minister, when Belgian travels in Europe in corona times is not evident. The color codes of the countries change every day, and the meaning of the color orange even three times a day. Is orange dangerous now, a little dangerous, or not dangerous? We don't know. It's chaos trump card. The sp.a advocated clear communication before. We are doing that again today. Because admit it, Madam Prime Minister, for the good citizen who watches the Journal at night, this is not obvious. In the meantime, we also see that the number of infections is increasing again, and you rightly decided yesterday, I believe, together with the National Security Council, to wait for the decision on new relaxations. But what concerns us most, Madam Prime Minister, is the question of whether our country is ready for rising figures. Are we ready for the so-called second wave? The number of infections is increasing, but no one knows exactly where and to whom exactly. I think it's important to act locally quickly, but the federal phase doesn't allow it. The contact tracing is crucial, but it wouldn't be until the end of August. The worst is the constant disagreement between the experts on the one hand and the politicians on the other. It's not very trusting, Madam Prime Minister. I'd like to know what you'll do to get the unit of command now. In what way will you jointly prepare the second wave? And how are you going to deal with the problem of the code orange?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u10	Madam Prime Minister, all experts have now agreed that there is a second wave approaching. As far as we're concerned, it's already been deployed. After a period without fatalities, yesterday the first victim was lamented. The number of infections continues to increase, and it is likely that in the very short term this will also translate into the number of hospitalisations. The reproduction number is now higher than 1. The blunders that this government made during the first wave are still fresh in the collective memory of the population and cannot be repeated. Before that wave, the government had already been cocked into the first seat. It promises to be an early second sitting, especially when it is known that the government has set itself up as a Mexican army, which caused 10,000 coronados to be lamented, 250,000 jobs are currently under threat and an estimated 50,000 corona bankruptcies will be carried out after the summer holidays. I hope you are aware that despite the measures that have been taken, the water is on the lips of a large number of SMEs and that a little push is enough to make them fall into the abyss. I hope you are aware that the doctors and nursing staff, who felt abandoned, have given the best of themselves to save lives and that it would be of little respect if you had not done anything to prevent a second wave. No one can do that, ladies and gentlemen. However, you have learned nothing from the mistakes of the past, Madam Prime Minister, because if you had to sit down and meet on 7 July about what you would do with the returned travellers, then my clog breaks. Madam Prime Minister, are you prepared this time? What have you done to prevent a second wave? How will you ensure that hospitals are not flooded again and our economy and jobs protected?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u11	Madam Prime Minister, I am concerned and I do not think I am the only one, because you probably share my concerns. I am concerned about testing, about the fact that it takes far too long for people to know whether they are positive or negative and about the contact checks that are absolutely inadequate. I am also very concerned about the return from an orange zone. They refer to a general practitioner who has to give good advice, but also those general practitioners no longer know what wood to make arrows out of. I am also concerned about the mayors who have had to do so much, who had to wait so long for the new ministerial decisions to be taken and who had to take care of so much themselves. They know how many infections there are in their city, but they don't know where exactly they are or what they can do. Meanwhile, there are campgrounds, summer shelters and swimming pools open. I'm worried about that. I am also concerned about the lack of communication that is constantly changing, as this is reducing the level of acceptance. I am also concerned about our people, because I hear that we could go to a local lockdown as we see it in neighbouring countries. Madam Prime Minister, is there an emergency plan, a plan for such a local lockdown? Are there different scenarios for camps, for collections and for cases where we don't know where it comes from? Do the people on the premises know what to do? In Germany we see people working with fences. Is that what we're gonna do? Do the field disciplines know what to do when there's a local lockdown? By the way, who decides on such a local lockdown? Are those the mayors, the county governors, or are we gonna get that federally, since we're in a federal phase? From how many infections in a village or city can we proceed to a local lockdown? How are we going to make it clear to the public that they have to go back into lockdown and how long that's gonna take? Who's gonna take control?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u12	Madam Prime Minister, since last week's concertation committee announced the introduction of a colour code for foreign returns, consumers and professionals in the sector actually see it in all colours. First, because the approach to restrictions is tedious. This week, Sciensano has changed twice the recommendation on orange zone returns. Last week: quarantine on a voluntary basis; Monday: more quarantine recommended; Tuesday: again a screening test and a recommended quarantine. I understand that the civic sense of our fellow citizens is being called upon, but they still need to be able to find themselves in these absconsessed rules. Secondly, because restricted areas are sometimes contested. In the publication of the Foreign Affairs travel recommendations, of course, health aspects must take precedence. However, it seems that even within the European Union, the Belgian position is blurred, causing cascading reactions from our European partners. With regard to the reopening of our external borders, Belgium's position also needs to be clarified. In addition to the micmac in our country, say, Madam Prime Minister, it would still be a shame for our diplomatic relations to go red too. Madam Prime Minister, within the European Union, what position does Belgium stand with regard to restrictions, both at the internal borders of the Schengen area and at the external borders of the European Union, in particular with regard to the Commission's recommendations? Then, what answer do you give to the citizens who search the official information by wondering whether or not to cancel their holidays? I would add here that consumer protection is an important element, since, in my view, cancellation insurance does not adequately protect holidaymakers who seek to cancel their journey because of the code assigned to the country of destination. Thank you for clarifying this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u13	Madam Prime Minister, the question is no longer when the second wave will come. According to the virologists, she's already started. The question now is how we will not let it get as far as we did in March. We're not doing well. When we look at the number of infections, the decision on the mouth masks came at least 14 days late. The red, orange and green zones, and especially the advice on what people should do when they come back, change faster than a traffic light changes. Tracking goes limp, while we hear everywhere that testing and tracing will be our weapon in the second wave. Then there is the war between the experts and the politicians, not the first time, but let us hope for the last time. The experts are concerned, we are concerned, the people are concerned. If I look at the news for the past 24 hours, I find that the schematics for local lockdowns are not yet ready and that the modification in the software system will only be ready by the end of August. That is about the direct victims, the health victims. However, we must be absolutely concerned about the figures that Child Focus brought out yesterday about the indirect victims. Our kids were having a hard time during the lockdown. We now expect clear answers rather than chaos. We cannot hide behind the claim that we do not know what is coming to us. You could have done that after the crocus break, but not anymore. I have some clear questions for you, Madam Prime Minister. What plans are ready today? How will you, for our children, take into account the recommendations made yesterday by Child Focus so that we make the children our top priority at a next lockdown, possibly locally?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u14	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, for months we have seen the virologists on the media declare that the number of infections does not in principle play a major role. Each time the infections started, they pointed out that more and more tests were being tested and that more infections are also emerging in more tests. Very important was the number of deaths and hospitalizations. According to the virologists, these were the only relevant figures. Madam Prime Minister, on average 81 people die a day in our country from cardiovascular disease, 77 from cancer and 33 from lung disease. In our country, 2.4 people are infected with the HIV-AIDS virus every day. We do not yet have a vaccine against that either. Madam Secretary, I don't want to minimize anything, but today more old people who have applied for euthanasia out of loneliness and because of the indecision of your policy than by the coronavirus. Today there are 2 deaths a day and 10 hospitalizations. Nevertheless, you manage to cause panic again. Maybe I can be wrong. I hope not. Madam Prime Minister, last week I wanted to ask you a question about the event sector. You wisely passed that question on to Mr Ducarme, who replied that a solution would be found the next week. After all, the GEES came together and would give an opinion. Once again, this advice has not worked out except for a major question mark and an economic event sector with 80,000 employees, which is now in the palliative care sector. The Rue de la Loi is ruled by virologists and not by politicians. They even claim that there should be no more politicians on the corona committees. They also change their minds more often than they change their shirt. Madam Prime Minister, when will the chaos come to an end, the chaos over the masks, about contact trackers, about travel advice and about quarantine? When will you show courage rather than sow fear?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u15	Mr President, the improvement in the health situation in recent weeks has not been achieved, as demonstrated by the fact that the so-called reproduction number is now higher than 1. There was a question about the daily dates. I fully share your opinion. We have asked Sciensano to give daily figures again, at least to the experts, who absolutely need them. Given the outbreak of the virus in neighbouring countries and the increase in the number of infections in Belgium in recent days, we must be twice as careful. This means, among other things, strict compliance with protection measures. That is why last Thursday the Consultation Committee decided to make it compulsory to wear mouth masks in shops and in many public places. The evolution of health indicators, the better knowledge of the virus and the new relaxation in the context of the exit have led to the experts adjusting their position. Again there is more interaction between people and gradually certain behaviors become looser. So we have to be much more vigilant. The extension of the obligation to wear mouth masks can help. If other measures are needed, as I have always said, we will not hesitate to take the necessary decisions, either to force the wearing of mouth masks in even more places, or to tighten existing measures in other ways. The risk of a second wave is not excluded, and we must do everything we can to avoid it. We must also prepare ourselves as best we can if we are unfortunately confronted with it. It's true, anticipation is crucial. I have already had the opportunity to speak on this last week, but since you are asking questions, I will come back to some aspects. The experience gained in recent months has been used to improve our response to the crisis, both at the federal and regional levels, since, as you know, each level of power has a role to play in our particularly complex institutional structure. At the federal level, the hospital emergency plan has been refined. Representatives of hospitals, health institutions and general practitioners were also consulted as part of the role to be played by the front line. Our testing capacity is still between 30,000 and 45,000 tests per day. We are, as I recall, in the world's top 10 countries that tested the most people per million inhabitants. This capacity is expected to be expanded to 50,000 tests per day in October. Our strategic stock of masks will be 200 million surgical masks, 33 million FFP2 masks and 5 million fabric masks at the end of August. I would like to recall that this strategic stock comes in addition to the stocks of equipment also made available to health care actors. Resurgence plans have been developed at the regional level. They are discussed in RMG today, in particular in order to ensure consistency between the Regions. Two lines of defence are identified: the first line to detect, trace and isolate infected persons through regional call centres; the second line to identify, at an early stage, outbreaks of resurgence through signals from the base, such as communities, which are supported by the health inspection of the competent regions, and possibly by mobile teams in order to contain the homes. The detection of new outbreaks can also be carried out by Sciensano via the databases available to the Institute. We are also working with the GEES on a system of cliquets, which should make it possible to determine the levels of increased attention or danger at the epidemiological level. With regard to local self-government, the operational services of the Crisis Centre have prepared a draaiboek to organize the various services in the event of a resurgence. It should facilitate the organization of cluster detection and management at the regional, provincial or municipal level. I would also remind you that the municipal law already allows the mayors to take individual measures in case of necessity. This has already been done. Of course, as we have been trying to do since the beginning of the crisis, it is essential that these interventions be coordinated in their approach. All the points will be discussed at the NSC on 23 July. Much has been said about the unity of command, which is important in a period of crisis, but our country is institutionally structured in such a way that its powers are split. That's a fact. We can either regret that or we can work with it. That is exactly what we are doing. Many questions have to do with regional powers. It doesn't matter. We're a team. We work together in favour of the Belgian people. We try to work together with respect for the powers. That's what we've done. We can discuss for hours who is responsible for what, but most importantly, everyone is responsible and determined to work together. Several comments were made on the collaboration between the political level and the experts, particularly in the press. I am sorry, because the first thing to remember is the recognition that we have to give to all those who wet their jerseys during the crisis at all levels, whether in shops or in the health sector, at local or political level, not to mention the experts. I would therefore like to express once again my gratitude to the members of the EGE for taking the time, apart from their work or their personal commitments, to help us in this crisis. The GEES provides us with advice – and that is why it was formed – and it is then up to the policy to make the decisions, in accordance with the mandate entrusted to it. Things must continue in this direction. Instead of spending energy asking futile questions or squashing in an interposed press, I prefer to use this energy to seek solutions. The question of the return of the holidays also has its place in the preparation of the second wave. In this context, you are aware that color codes have been defined on the basis of an analysis carried out by the Celeval evaluation cell. This group, chaired by the Public Health FPS, includes both virologists and representatives of the federated entities. The criteria used by Celeval must indeed be further refined, in accordance with the request of the National Security Council addressed to the chairman of that group. Indeed, we know that the ratios of contamination rates are also influenced by testing policy and need to be taken into account in global analyses. Of course, it is unpleasant for a country to be pointed at and to have zones indicated in red or orange. In this regard, I would like to point out that the health of our citizens is our main concern and goes before any other consideration. You may find that the procedures are not clear. I'll call you back. For example, an area indicated in red means that its inhabitants must be quarantined and tested. The orange code implies that quarantine and testing are not mandatory but highly recommended. As with all the measures we have taken to deal with this crisis, we have taken into account and must continue to take collective intelligence into account. Collective intelligence has ensured that this deconfinity has been successful. It was successful not because we developed controls at every corner of the street. It was successful because the Belgians understood the value of respecting the rules. And that is what we are still counting on, even if, of course, controls are to take place and will continue to take place. With regard to the more specific issue of Passenger Locator Form, this form is being translated. Just like you, I don't see why it would only exist in English. It must be able to be translated, although, for having seen it, it is not very complicated to fill in. As far as the organisation of quarantine and tracing is concerned, you know that these are regional competences. In fact, the Regions have activated themselves very quickly to be able to put in place legal texts which, either have already been voted on in Flanders or are in the process of being voted on in Wallonia, Brussels and the German-speaking Community. The evolution of the health situation at the beginning of the crisis determined the pace of exit measures. Since the beginning of this month there has been a revival of the virus. That is why we will continue to monitor the situation carefully, especially in the light of the opening of a new phase. For this reason, the National Security Council decided yesterday to assess next Thursday 23 July whether the epidemiological situation would allow us to proceed or not, and so we can start phase 5. We will have a better view of the health situation next week. We will then be able to see if the increase in the number of infections observed in recent days is a trend that is confirmed or not. It is still intended to remain cautious and to place the health of our people at the top of our agenda. There was also a question about the situation of the children. We are very much aware of the situation of the children. It was very difficult for some kids. Everyone knows children who have adapted well to the crisis, while other children have had a hard time. We are very aware of this and that is one of the reasons why we have very quickly reopened the schools for the youngest of our children. They absolutely needed that. That is why we have already decided in advance that the internships and scouts camps could be organized. Of course, the crisis was difficult for everyone, but especially for the children. It remains a focus for everyone. Mr President, I am answering questions today for the last time, but perhaps not in my life as Prime Minister, who knows. We do not know yet whether we will have a different government. Before the parliamentary holidays – not yet ours – I wanted to say thank you for the exchanges, sometimes muscular, sometimes more soothing. I also thank you for the support that some of you have given us more or less strongly during the crisis. Regardless of our ideological differences, I think, as far as democratic parties are concerned, we are all committed to making Belgium work positively and making positive progress in this crisis in order to get as far as possible out of it. It is true that we have suffered. Finally, I would also like to thank the services of the Chamber for their efficiency and availability. I wish you all a pleasant vacation. (Applause from all benches)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u16	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your kind words. We normally reserve a few final words before the end of the sitting, but I understand that you will now pronounce them. We have good feelings for the government and for your person, you may be convinced of that. Last night at 2 p.m. we could not see a minister in the plenary and we had to stop our work, which might have upset the feelings towards the government. However, the arrival of Minister De Block and then Minister Marghem, responsible for Energy, has largely compensated this. Madam Prime Minister, I wish you every success in the coming weeks. Parliament is going through recess, but the committees can always be convened for urgent matters. We will therefore remain vigilant. I now give the floor to Members for their reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u17	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. The local authorities have worked hard over the past few months to combat the corona virus. Although ministerial decisions have sometimes arrived late until very late, municipal staff, ships and mayors have played briefly on the ball and demonstrated that they are also a reliable partner. Breakouts will therefore have to be combated locally. I would ask you once again to provide us with the means and instruments to avoid a second wave. For our people, our entrepreneurs and our care staff, who have had a very difficult period. We really must avoid giving up our regained freedom again. Finally, of course, I would like to wish all my fellow Members a pleasant holiday, where possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u18	Madam Prime Minister, it is my turn to thank you for your action, which we know and recognise is not simple in this complicated country of Belgium. As you know, we are a loyal partner in the search for solutions but loyal is not incompatible with demanding. We owe excellence to our fellow citizens in this complicated matter, in the testing, organisation, in the means available for the health sector and in the protection of the most fragile, especially children, as you have rightly pointed out with my colleague Barbara Creemers. As you said, we are starting a period of slowing down, but we, as parliamentarians, will be vigilant. We will continue to be demanding and available to support and put pressure on the government to make the right decisions at the right time. Indeed, as has been said, the virus will not take leave of absence and our country cannot afford a second confinement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u19	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for the answer. You said that the reproduction rate is rising again. You have committed yourself to giving the figures to the experts on a daily basis at least. I think it's important that the population gets it, too. I also think it is important that these figures are very precise in order to be able to answer a number of questions. Is this about clusters? Where exactly are the infections located? After all, measuring is knowing. With regard to the preparation of autumn and the testing capacity, you said that we are at the European summit. You say we're done. I hear a minister say it's gonna be a fight to get there. After the summer comes autumn. We all know that there are a lot of colds in the fall. The GPs, the tests, when do we get the results, what's that all about, are those contacts tracked down, will we have the necessary tests? You can't come here a second time saying you didn't know. I'll be back here asking you if this is okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u20	Prime Minister, thank you too. Even the fiercest of your political opponents must recognize that your personality and empathy have been all positive factors in the management of this extraordinary crisis that has come upon us collectively. Thank you for your answer, which clearly clarifies things. You explained precisely that, if you come back from a country called a "red grade", the test and quarantine had to be considered mandatory. Everyone understands that one cannot put a policeman behind each citizen, but everyone also understands that one must bet on what you have called the "collective intelligence" of the citizens, who has protected us and, I believe, still protects us from too much resurgence from the disease. A huge difference needs to be highlighted about our ability to test. As much as we have been very critical at the beginning, we must acknowledge that it is now very high. That is why we must make full use of it to test as much as possible those of our fellow citizens and travellers returning from the orange and red zones. I thank you in advance for this follow-up, and also rest a little.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u21	I thank you, Prime Minister, for your clear answers, who do not send the bullet back to anyone. When you make decisions, you get criticisms, bad faith. "Wilmes and the others, it's the economy first... they don't listen to the experts... look at the other countries..." Yesterday during your press conference, today and throughout the crisis, you again demonstrated to all those who are in bad faith that public health is the priority of the priorities, that you are listening to the experts and that, in the interest of the Belgians, you have taken the risk of frowning some countries. Mr Dedecker, could you be consistent? A few weeks ago, you found it scandalous not to gain access to the second residence. Then public health was your top priority? Happy holidays in Middelkerke or elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u22	Madam Prime Minister, you say that you are trying to cooperate with respect for powers, and I would very much like to believe that, but we do not always see much of that on the ground, not between the National Security Council and the experts, but also between the different levels in our country. However, you have the task and responsibility to ensure that all noses are in the same direction and that everyone cooperates. You have the experience of the first time, Madam Prime Minister. You have just questioned your own role in September, but over the next two months we are counting on you, with all the experience you have gained, to get all the noses in the same direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u23	Madam Prime Minister, the government has clearly not learned any lessons from the serious health crisis of recent months. You play with fire, you play with people's lives again, you play with our jobs and our economy. If you fail again, many thousands of companies will fail and hundreds of thousands of jobs will die. Many sectors, such as the event sector, have not even been properly launched so far. How do you expect the people to take you seriously if you don't know how to make wood arrows yourself? From what I have heard today, I can only conclude that you will also be in the second one and in the meantime Minister De Block with her mouth mask is playing the clown in Parliament. As far as we are concerned, it is time for your blunder government to cease to exist. It is time for us to go to the electorate for a strong government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u24	I do not think this language is correct, Mr Van Lommel. I know that there is freedom of speech in Parliament, but this is not correct language.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u25	Madam Prime Minister, I would like to thank you very much for the answers, but I did not get them. I still don't know who's gonna decide to go to a local lockdown, from when a local lockdown can come and how we're gonna do it. Everyone is convinced that we need to avoid a second general lockdown, but then we need to be clear about what such a local lockdown will look like. You refer to the autonomy of the local authorities, but how will that work? Who's gonna coordinate that, how are we gonna get a look at that? I didn't get any answers to those questions. You rightly call for civicism and you call it intelligence collective or common sense. That is absolutely right, but the citizen also calls for leadership and expects clear communication. That leadership and communication aren't always there. I'm just asking you to prepare such a local lockdown and clearly communicate with everyone involved, the mayors, the governors, the disciplines on the ground and the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u26	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, I would like to thank you as my colleagues are doing, but I cannot do so today, because you have not answered my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u27	Next time!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u28	Maybe there won't be a next time, Mr. Van Quickenborne. You have not answered my question on intra-European coordination. I am therefore afraid that your government will soon be quarantined by your European partners because of your lack of clarity on this matter. You also did not answer my question on consumer protection. Minister Muylle stated that package travel would be reimbursed. Assuralia has just indicated that there is no question of it, that it is necessary to be ill to be reimbursed. Who will be quarantined? Minister Muylle, consumers or Assuralia? You have not answered my question, which I very much regret.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u29	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, you say that you are really trying to work together in this foreign country, but it is not possible to work together either with the experts or with the regions. You're setting the fine example of Celeval. The directives still have to be finalized, while the borders have been open for a month and a day. During the crocus holiday we did not know how devastating that pandemic was, but we cannot hide behind it now. I also appreciate you giving the kids a moment's thought. The schools went up faster. The youth movements are now able to organize camps and playgrounds. However, what Child Focus puts the finger on goes much deeper than that. The virus doesn't take a vacation, but criminal cases like sextortion and grooming don't take a vacation either. Those peaks even on vacation. Child Focus is doing an incredibly good job of communicating about that. But also use your communication channels to pay extra attention to this together with Child Focus. 116 000, we all need to communicate with that telephone number. If there are children in need, let Child Focus help.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u30	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am delighted to have a pleasant holiday. You are also welcome in Middelkerke, the most beautiful seaside resort on our Belgian coast. However, there is one problem. You've messed up a little bit. Let me give you a first example. Normally on 15 August I received a delegation from Le Grand-Duché de Luxembourg. Even Mr Juncker would come with us. But they're not coming. And do you know why they're not coming? Because they are angry because we have described Luxembourg as a red country in all our insanity. In retrospect, that was wrong. And so they don't come. What a policy! Let me give you a second example. You stand behind state structures, but I had a meeting with the Minister of Tourism of Flanders. It is going to pull millions because all the congresses, of Americans, of Japanese, of Chinese, which were due to take place next week in Brussels or elsewhere in Belgium, have been cancelled. Why is that? That is because of that wonderful policy you have pursued, saying that we have the greatest mortality in the world. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u31	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we need to talk about our children. I'm someone who likes to be right, and I'm probably not the only one in this hemisphere. I can see you nodding too, Mr Dedecker. Sometimes, however, it is not so pleasant to be right. Why am I saying this? About three months ago, I warned here with a number of colleagues about the danger of child abuse and abuse because of the lockdown. Well, unfortunately, we've been right. It's the middle of July and the numbers are frightening. Child Focus raises the alarm and says that the number of cases of sexual integrity impairment has more than doubled and that the reports of sexual abuse, which we popularly call child pornography, have even tripled. That has to do with the lockdown. We've closed down the schools and hobby clubs and canceled sports activities. Everything for health, of course, but that's why we locked children in their quarters with their abuser. In the meantime, we all know, or we should know, that sexual abuse is mainly committed by acquaintances and not by a weirdo who jumps from behind a hedge or a bush. Moreover, the children were very much on the Internet and on social media, making them very vulnerable to people with bad intentions. We can all - quite rightly - feel guilty about this. I'm gonna make it a little worse. The odds of getting caught are frighteningly small. Due to a lack of capacity in the police and the judiciary, only 20% of the evidence of sexual abuse can be investigated. The other 80% of the perpetrators will be released anyway and nothing will happen to them. So, Minister, we have failed to protect our children. My question to you is therefore how you will make the fight against the sexual exploitation of children and minors, both online and offline, a priority. After all, I know that's what you think is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u32	Mr. Chair, Minister, the list of horrors that this VOCID pandemic has caused seems endless. Yesterday, Child Focus reported that paedophiles took advantage of containment to increase their activities. For Child Focus, the great forgotten of the VOCID crisis are children: children raped, children exposed to sexual abuse attempts, children abused in their candour, at home, on the Internet, abused in their flesh or in the virtual world. We are only in mid-July and there are already more cases of child sexual integrity violations than in the entire year 2019. Of course, containment is not a foreign matter. As we know, children are usually victims of people living in their homes, but not only. Online abuse also exploded. Three times as many paedophiles go masked to try to meet: 118% increase in attempts to get pictures, doubling reports for cases of child harassment by paedophiles. These figures are terrifying and, when we know that children do not dare or can't tell their story, that they are threatened and not always believed, that they do not always find the courage to talk about them, we think that there are even more children living in hell. Minister Child Focus invites us, invites you to make this terrible issue a top priority. What answer can you give? What about the structural resources available to the police, prosecutors, organizations and victim support services? What about the responsibility of online service providers who should be forced to act proactively against the sexual exploitation of minors on their platforms? Minister, what short- and medium-term responses do you intend to provide to Child Focus's recommendations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u33	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the corona crisis has affected us all, especially the most vulnerable of us: children. They were very vulnerable. It is therefore not surprising that Child Focus pulled the alarm yesterday, in an open letter with staggering figures and five action points. The figures are staggering because they show a doubling, even a triple, of the number of complaints about child abuse. It's about sexting, sexual harassment, extortion, physical abuse and grooming. We all know that this is just the tip of the iceberg and that children often do not dare to come out with it. They're scared, they're blackmailed, they're intimidated, and of course they're afraid to report it. As the figures show, the conditions of the lockdown have contributed to this. Children also stayed in their quarters, had little contact with others and the social control of, for example, teachers, youth workers or sports trainers fell away. We know that this has led to distressing situations where they have often been the victims of people from their immediate surroundings, people they lived with, sometimes, or very often, family members. It was of course also because they were more and more dependent on social media. They often made contact through social media and became victims of sexual predators. I am sure, Minister, that you share this concern. We all know that this is a very broad problem, which one does not solve only with the police and the justice system. They come only at the end of the journey, when the problem has already arisen and when a victim has already fallen. Well, then it's actually too late. Minister, how do you intend to tackle this problem proactively? What can we do to avoid victims and do even better than we do today? How do you want to do this? What do you want to do? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a crisis as we have experienced and still experience, it is always the weakest who are least protected. That often has to do with age, with young and with old. It is with sad eyes but with great understanding that I have greeted the closure of the schools. At that point, social control is not going to work. At that time, the possibility to report externally what is going on in a family under the same roof falls away. Under this same roof, social control falls because there is no more school, there is nothing. You ask me what else I want to do. I have recently been in the Interministerial Committee on Women's Rights, which was set up by our Prime Minister a few months ago and where I was particularly confronted with female colleagues - so I am glad that you are asking a man because there are a lot of things a man is not allowed to talk about these days - replied that perhaps we should stop making plans and do something better! However, immediately after the murder of Julie Van Espen, I made a very large plan for combating sexual violence, which I submitted to the committee and which will be worked out in inter-federal consultation. Well, I'll give you what I've done. I made Child Focus a legally recognised hotline for child pornography during the previous legislature. That was a great fight against the court that succeeded. I have advocated here in the Chamber the sexual education and training of magistrates in the fight against sexual violence. I got a reprimand from the College of the Chair for that. You are voting in Parliament today on the draft that makes this training compulsory. Four years ago, anyone who dared to express that audience was still blamed. I've been trying to encourage the Home Affairs colleagues to set up a central cell of child pornography in the police department. There, moreover, the action Stop it now is being carried out together with the Communities. With regard to domestic violence, several Family Justice Centers are examples in the world. They exist in the provinces of Limburg and Antwerp. There, professional secrecy is shared between CPAS doctors and collaborators, among all those involved in the fight against sexual violence. Colleagues, let's repeat each other. All of this was included in the full security plan in 2015. All of this was included in the Interior's plan to combat violence in 2015. It is also always said that prevention is very important. The Minister of Justice usually answers such questions by saying that it is necessary to ensure that at school, things are done that prevent what happens. Repeat. It is above all an action on the ground that I encourage. My priorities are clear, I explained them in the plan that I submitted to the Interdepartmental Conference and that I drafted following the assassination of Julie Van Espen. It is much more important for actors on the ground to encourage each other. Where were we when we closed the schools? Did we say anything? Have we encouraged parents to be vigilant? It's a daily question! Social control of the computer screen is a daily issue! I encourage you not only to write plans or pass laws, but to set up Family Justice Centers across the country. I encourage you to work on Care Centres after Sexual Violence in all major hospitals, as Mrs Muylle is doing right now. After all, the battle will never be won, and this is not just about texts, but also about action on the ground. I encourage my services to do so as strongly as possible, but I admit that prioritisation remains a problem for everyone in society, from the beginning to the end of the chain. I regret that. Anyway, I'm your reliable partner, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u35	Indeed, you have already made some nice steps in the fight against the exploitation of minors. Nevertheless, I continue to insist on increasing the chances of getting caught. It is absolutely necessary, if we really want a change. We have spent a lot of money over the last few months and the Belgian government knows what to do with its money at the moment. It was at a certain time or sintering lass, Santa Claus and the sugar uncle came along at the same time. What's more important than our kids? We need to see if we can't free up more structural resources so that the police, the police, civil society and aid can fight against sexual exploitation. I'm glad you're also pointing out the responsibility of everyone at home, of society as a whole. I call on everyone to report this, if anything, and to take that important step. Thank you so much for moving in quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u36	[[Minister, I have heard your answer.]] You're talking about attempts. You're giving advice, but it's a wake-up call from Child Focus and it's a call to help abused children that needs to be answered. More means in justice, in tracking criminals and images, in listening to victims! No more responsibility of the net giants who sometimes harbour these criminal activities! More will, Minister, because behind these statistics, which must not be fatal, are children abused, wounded, traumatized for life, families where sometimes monsters, families hurt! Minister, we need new technological and human resources to finally reduce these terrible figures of delinquency towards our children.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Indeed, you have already made a great deal of efforts, some of which you have mentioned again today, such as the Family Justice Centers, the porn cell and the training of the magistrates, why we are about to adopt another text. The fight against child abuse must never be solved. We have to keep feeding them together. This requires joint efforts by civil society, the police, the public service and aid. Children carry life-long scars of abuse, figuratively and sometimes literally, and that destroys lives. That's why we can't, never give up. As long as a child is abused, that's one too many. I therefore hope that we can make this fight a priority in the next coalition agreement so that structural funds can be made available for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u38	Mr President, Minister, the issue may seem anecdotal, but it is a matter of concern at the time of the omnipresence of social networks. The Brussels-Capital-Ixelles police area has just registered on the TikTok social network. It is, as you know, a very popular application for younger generations, which makes it possible to publish short humorous or musical videos. The first publication of the police zone shows the new uniform of his bikers. The spokesperson for the area explains that the reason for this presence on TikTok is that it would allow "to reach more and more citizens, all age groups combined". The inspiration would come from the United States and the Netherlands, including the Amsterdam police area, which already has its own account. However, this is not a test run on social networks. Indeed, the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles area, like many others, is already active on Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, Instagram or Youtube. Minister, my questions relate more broadly to the presence of police areas on social networks and the effectiveness or otherwise of these approaches in terms of image for the police. What do you think about the presence of police areas on social networks? What do you think are the advantages and disadvantages? Have you ever seen, or even measured, positive effects in terms of image for the police? Does the use of social media by the police allow for an exchange between the police and citizens or is it rather a form of one-way communication, which could be described as top-down communication from the authorities to the citizen? Do you think this presence is likely to bring citizens closer to their police? Are the messages conveyed there always well framed? Above all, how could we ensure that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u39	Dear colleague De Maegd, the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles police area is increasingly playing the map of social media. She is not the only one, but nevertheless, she is a precursor. In order to reach as many citizens as possible, the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles police zone decided to launch on the social network TikTok, a first in Belgium. I was also able to consult the programming. This initiative was inspired by a similar initiative of the Amsterdam police which has been very successful on social networks with more than 135,000 subscribers. In my view, this is part of a strategy of pushing information to the public through various channels. The life of the population takes place, for a part, in the virtual world of social networks and it is logical that a local police service should be present there to feel what interests or concerns the population. In my view, this is a very interesting and interactive tool, allowing us to keep a finger on the pulse of society, in which our police services work, and in addition, to develop affinity with the world of young people and to get closer to citizens. In addition, these social media can also help make the police profession more visible and attract more potential candidates to a professional police career. This initiative is therefore perfectly in line with the philosophy that I fully support and defend, that our police services should be more present online. I've already mentioned blue online a lot. Even after the events in Brussels, the new media have also rightly demonstrated that they can be very useful in the fight against crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u40	Minister, thank you for that answer. On behalf of my group, I would like to welcome the initiatives of the police areas that are present on social networks. As I said, this may seem anecdotal, but if such a presence can help bring citizens closer to their local police, it should be welcomed. However, we must remain cautious. We know the drifts that can be caused by a presence on large networks such as TikTok - which is a Chinese platform. Colleagues, remember, our elders were singing "The Constable's Tactics." Now our young people are discovering videos of our police officers on TikTok. Why not? There are even famous politicians, such as the Walloon minister-president. The whole thing is to do it ethically so that it does not become OCD - understand obsessive compulsive disorders. Let us therefore ensure that the messages remain structured and pedagogic. We support any approach that explains police missions to the public, Minister. As we say at home, it must remain "ric race", rigorous, to avoid any micmac, any disorder. Otherwise, it will be necessary to take his clicks and slams from this network. Colleagues, times are changing, you have to say that. In real life or on social networks, we are going through a very epic era. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u41	Madam Minister, new figures showed this week that almost half of the asylum seekers in this country have travelled from other EU Member States responsible for their application and reception, the so-called Dubliners. It is a figure that shows, like no other, that Belgium is increasingly a chosen destination for asylum hoppers. Madam Minister, this week you announced that you would like to secure these so-called Dubliners in closed return centres if necessary and that you would free up places to do so. Of course, the fact that you want to take measures to prevent this abuse has our full support. However, experience has shown me that this time it may not be more than empty promises. At the same time, I fear that your measure to provide additional places for the so-called Dubliners in the closed return centres will be at the expense of the already disastrous return policy of illegal immigrants. In short, what we need is no more places for the Dubliners within the existing capacity, but an urgent increase in that capacity. What party has been calling for a substantial increase in this capacity for years as a basis for a sound return policy? Correct, Mrs De Block, the Flemish Interest. In 2017, the government approved a real master plan for forced return. It stated that the capacity of the closed return centres would be increased by 400 places by the end of 2020. When I questioned you about this at the beginning of this year, it appeared that only 50 more places had been added. At this rate, it will take 24 years for your famous master plan to be implemented and it will take light years before we have sufficient capacity for a sound return policy. Madam Minister, how many places are currently available in closed return centres? Do you consider the implementation of the master plan possible by the end of 2020? If no, what number do you propose? What measures have you taken to further increase this capacity?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u42	Mr President, Mr Van Langenhove, as you know, because I have said it every week and I will repeat it again, as long as the corona virus is not gone, we must also classify the places in our closed centres in a safe way, both for the staff and for the foreigners involved who will be removed. You know the corona epidemic hasn't disappeared yet. The organization of disposals, which we have indeed restarted, is still a few factors which are not optimal, such as the situation of air traffic to disposal destinations. There is also a limited number of places on board the aircraft. The cooperation of the countries of origin is also uncertain. As I said in committee last week, since the approval of the master plan, in 2017, one closed center of 50 places could be added. That was the center in Holsbeek, which was opened in May 2019. In recent years, 180 extra places have been created. For some time now, we have been working on a strict follow-up to the Dublin procedure. Where another Member State is competent to deal with the asylum procedure, the applicant should be effectively transferred to that Member State. We try to do so on a voluntary basis, but in a number of cases it is also mandatory. We will be very careful to ensure that this is done effectively. If that is necessary, we will also be able to hold those people in the closed centres pending the transfer. There are places in closed centres for this purpose, without prejudice to the detention of persons who have committed acts of public order, because the removal of criminals remains, as always, one of the priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u43	Mrs De Block, I will repeat it again, because I have the impression that it is still unclear for you and certain colleagues: migrants who enter our country illegally must go outside. Asylum seekers who lie to our services to get false asylum, they have to go outside. False refugees travelling from European country to European country to collect money everywhere, they have to go outside. Criminal aliens who abuse our hospitality to terrorize our people, they have to go outside. That's not extreme, that's not racist, that's the law. It is your duty, Madam Secretary, to apply that law, and it is our duty as representatives of the people to check that you do so effectively. It is high time to talk a little less and do something more.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u44	Mr President, Minister, over the past few weeks we have been able to identify the enthusiasm with which gifts are being distributed, although we all know that the money is gone. Free politics has been all the way back, including in mobility policy. First there was the free Rail Pass, then also the free bike on the train. Two weeks after the introduction of the free transport of bicycles by train, we have to observe that it does not work, not only because the free policy leads to a loss of income for SNCB, but also because it leads to nuisance on the train and even potentially endangers safety. Therefore, I fully understand that SNCB is correcting that measure, safety first. However, I do not understand why the government does not choose to examine the impact of such decisions before implementing them. Free bicycle transport, like the expensive free pass, was announced as an encouragement for domestic tourism. However, the free tickets are only available from mid-August and may not be used during the weekend. Now the bike is no longer allowed to go to the most tourist destinations during the peak moments. So what is left of the promotion of tourism? In what way is that still conducive? Minister, what possibility do you see of using additional train sets to increase capacity? Have you examined whether paying, fixed passengers and commuters using bicycle transport can still be authorised? What opportunities do you see to improve access for cyclists on the train in the medium term?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u45	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on the advice of the country's virologists, many people and families have chosen to spend their summer holidays in their own countries. Thanks to SNCB's free bike ticket, they apparently choose to use the combination train and bike to discover the most beautiful spots in our country, from Rochefort in the Ardennes to De Panne on the coast. They seem to do so so massively that SNCB is forced to limit the possibility of taking the bike on the train. I can understand that, too. Of course, people cannot be allowed to get in and out of the car because there are too many bikes on the train or people with a carriage can no longer find a place on the train. It seems logical to me that the train escorts are alert to the fact that when a train is too full, they report that the bike can no longer reach it. Apparently it is also decided that on some popular lines to the Ardennes and to the coast during certain parts of the day it will be impossible to bring another bike. That is, of course, very far-reaching. That is even a step backwards from the situation before Corona, when it was possible. The traveller buys a ticket for it and depending on the capacity the bike can or cannot use it. That's gonna be impossible right now. Hopefully you realise, and the SNCB also, that the popularity of the combination train and bike is not a one-off phenomenon, and you have seen a massive increase in the sales of bicycles and cycling holidays. We'd better get ready. Are you willing to ease the absolute ban on taking a bike on some busy lines, depending on the capacity? If there's room, I'll take the bike. How will you ensure that we do not have the same problem next summer?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I was informed of the decision of SNCB to stop taking bicycles for free or for a fee at certain times and at certain destinations. Folding bikes are still allowed. The reason given by SNCB is that both health and physical safety for passengers and staff can no longer be guaranteed. During the summer holidays, the lines in question are busy, even in corona times. An increase in the number of bicycles by as much as 80% compared to July 2019 makes the situation even more complex. I have read in the media that there is understanding of the situation. I would add that today the supply of trains is 100 %, of course also with the "vacances" trains. In the short term, SNCB simply does not have a solution in terms of infrastructure to meet the combination of a high demand for transport, which is typical of the summer holidays, the huge increase in the number of bicycles and the social disruption in times of corona. In the near future, the arrival of the M7.... the first deliveries will take place.. the ability to carry bicycles. SNCB is monitoring the situation on trains at close range. I'm going to ask that, as soon as the crowds allow, for example after the busy summer period, the bikes can be brought back free of charge at more times during the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u47	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, five weeks after the failure of the free Rail Pass, the government is again hitting a mud figure with the free bike on the train. Take a bike on the train to the sea or the Ardennes at peak hours is no longer allowed, but it is now at least free, hooray. A few weeks ago, the green colleagues announced with a lot of bombs that the train would be free this summer and that they could take their bike for free, because that would be good for tourism. However, the free tickets will not be available until the end of the summer and now the cyclist can't even get on the train when he or she wants to. It shows above all the nonsense of free policy that fixed, paying customers who need their bike in the rush on these routes are now punished because some wanted to play sintering classrooms. Thanks to Green, these people will have to move with fossil fuels for the rest of the summer instead of opting for the sustainable alternative. Another green balloon is pierced here. A human being would almost feel sorry for SNCB, who had to correct all this last minute, rather than focus on measures relating to social distancing and corona prevention. Let us hope that (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u48	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. My reply will be less cynical than that of the previous speaker. If anything positive came out of the corona crisis, it is that people have discovered the bicycle massively as a way to move sustainably and cheaply. I am convinced that the combination of bike and train is a golden combination, which will only gain success. I hope that, if we work on a relance plan, we will certainly have room to invest massively in additional trains that people can or cannot take together with their bikes. This combination will provide additional revenue for SNCB, reduce congestion and reduce emissions. We all win by the combination of bike and train.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u49	Mr. Chairman, Minister, there is no longer any understanding of this in terms of both government measures and health. After the announcement that quarantine for travellers returning from an orange zone was no longer recommended, it has been recommended since Tuesday. As a result, quarantine is no longer mandatory, but travellers are still asked to visit their doctor. Minister, travellers don't understand anything anymore because your actions are health-related. Indeed, there is the red code and the green code. Everyone understands them. It's like signal lights. But in the middle, there's the orange code. This code is the problem. Indeed, as I said, the orange code means that travel is currently strongly discouraged and quarantine and screening are strongly recommended. We even learn that you appeal to the civic spirit of people, when you know very well that travellers will not be able to be reimbursed if they cancel their journey. What does that mean, minister? That you leave the choice to the people! Either they decide to lose money, or they decide to protect themselves from health. However, this choice should not arise. Workers should not question whether or not they are willing to sacrifice nearly a month's pay, whether it is a big family or a big trip. For some, the choice will be made quickly, which I understand and respect. But to avoid a second wave, you have to prepare for it. It is therefore necessary to create optimal conditions to avoid health risk. In other words, it is necessary to guarantee reimbursement to travellers who, as a precaution and by civicism, as you say, prefer to cancel their journey. Minister, in the interests of health protection, are you going to guarantee that travellers in an orange zone will receive a refund in the event of cancellation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u50	Mr President, Mr D'Amico, as I replied to Mr Depraetere here last week about the consequences for consumers, the rules on cancellation are identical to those applied in recent months. A package trip can always be cancelled. If the tour operator cancels, he must reimburse the traveller. The voucher system is no longer applicable unless the consumer expressly accepts. If the traveller cancels himself, he must also be reimbursed, but compensation can be claimed. In case of force majeure, the costs of termination are not due. In a red code situation, there is force majeure. In a green code situation, force majeure cannot be invoked. I think that's clear. In an orange code situation, we can travel. The package journey can therefore be carried out. A traveller who cancels his package travel must be reimbursed but will be required to pay the contractual compensation. When the tour operator cancels, he must also reimburse the traveller but he will have to pay in addition the contractual compensation. Where the measures taken by the countries of destination or local authorities have a significant impact on the performance of the package journey, the situation of force majeure is present and the costs of termination are not due. These rules have not been amended and are already in force today. If it is not a package trip but, for example, a hotel reservation or a plane ticket, the traveller will have to check the conditions of his reservation to see if he has a cancellation right and under what conditions he can exercise this right. It is therefore important that, at the time of booking, he be very attentive to the possibility of refund in the event of cancellation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u51	Madam Minister, thank you. I understand what you're telling me, but what about travellers who did not take cancellation insurance and who, at the time of booking, were considering a green-coded destination that today is not? If the agency doesn't cancel, you say you're calling on the citizens' civics. If I interpret what you're telling me, I shouldn't leave. But if I don't leave, I won't be reimbursed. So I'm gonna lose a second time. It's called citizens' civicism. I appeal to your civics, too. Force these tour operators to logically refund those travellers who leave because at the time of their reservation they were not aware that the area was going to pass in orange code!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u52	Mr President, Minister, the holiday trip started last week. As of tomorrow, it will have its peak, with the construction leave at its doorstep. Last week we asked the Prime Minister here about travel advice and colour codes. The information was available during the evening. Until the middle of this week, however, we have found that there were still a lot of uncertainties about the exact meaning of the colour codes. Are you or are you not allowed to travel to Sweden? Should we now be required or not quarantined when returning from a country with code red? It becomes quite difficult when the color code changes while one is on the holiday destination. In addition, some countries such as Sweden and Luxembourg are coloured in red or orange, and in Spain only certain demarcated areas are coloured. What is green in the morning, when one is ready to leave, can suddenly be red at 4 p.m. Does that mean a plane won't leave? Who validates the travel info? Who decides the colors? In recent weeks, it has been a source of confusion for travellers, but also in the professional sector, at airports, at travel agencies. They were overwhelmed with questions. Soon also house doctors will be overwhelmed with questions from people returning from their travel destination. They will ask their home doctor whether they should be quarantined or not, whether they should be tested or not. Minister, how can we restore peace and stability in the travel sector? Can we change the color codes instead of per 24 hours on a longer term? By whom is the information validated? Who determines the color of the countries on the map?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u53	Mrs Slegers, our only objective is to inform passengers and all other stakeholders correctly about safety in the country of destination. This certainly includes the travel sector. Your question is about tourist trips within the European zone. Essential movements and movements outside that zone are therefore excluded. In this exceptional crisis, exceptional measures are taken to scientifically support travel advice. To this end, CELEVAL shall be consulted when drawing up the travel advice. On the basis of the figures collected by Sciensano, this working group works very closely in drawing up an opinion comparing the risk in third countries with the risk in Belgium. You also asked who determines and validates the color code. Without prejudice to the competent services, the FPS Foreign Affairs unites all information about both departure and return to Belgium on its website for the convenience of citizens. Before departure, green light means that one can travel without any additional condition. Orange means increased vigilance or measures imposed by the country in question, quarantine or possibly a test. Red means a ban on travel to these countries or territories. These are areas that are placed in lockdown or where access for Belgians is prohibited by the country itself. There haven't been any more cases like that today. They may also be areas declared high risk areas by CELEVAL. The return to Belgium is subject to 3 symbols. The green thumb raised means that we can return from these countries without conditions. The orange stethoscope asks for a quarantine or test on return, as determined by the Länder. The red warning sign requires a quarantine or test, as determined by the Länder, upon return. The zones are determined by CELEVAL. You asked how we could reduce peace and stability in the travel sector. As you yourself have seen, a pandemic is a rapidly evolving situation and there is therefore new information on a daily basis. It is a logical consequence that advice for countries where the scientific parameters are very close to an epidemiological tilting point regularly changes colour code. This ensures that the safety risks are assessed as correctly as possible. An adjustment is made daily at 4 p.m. if the situation has changed, which does not mean that it changes automatically every 24 hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for the clear information. We have stayed in our quarters for the past few months, but now many people want to go on holiday and enjoy in peace. The government must provide correct information. You just did. I see that people still find that information very difficult. The map is also difficult to find on the website. It is so important that they have that information so that people know for themselves what risk they are taking if they decide to travel to some country. Resting in the sector, resting with the travellers can be achieved in two ways. Firstly, try to make good agreements at European level. Secondly, provide enough information on the colour codes and how they should be interpreted by the travel sector, by the airport and by the general practitioners. We're counting on you to realize that in the next few hours and days.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u55	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u56	The next item on the agenda is the composition of the special committee responsible for the investigation of the Congo Free State and the Belgian colonial past in Congo, Rwanda and Burundi, its impact and its consequences. We decided yesterday to install that committee. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents, I propose that the permanent members and alternates of that committee be appointed. Let me give you the names that the various political groups have given me: N-VA Membres effectifs/Fast members: Björn Anseuw, Thomas Roggeman, Wim Van der Donkt. Membres suppliers/Alternates: Kathleen Depoor , Peter De Roover, Darya Safai. Ecolo-Green Effective members/Vaste leden: Wouter De Vriendt, Simon Moutquin, Séverine de Laveleye. Alternate members/Plaatsvervangers: Jessika Soors, Evita Willaert, Julie Song. PS Effective members/Vaste leden: Christophe Lacroix, Jean-Marc Delizée, Malik Ben Achour. Alternate members/Plaatsvervangers: Sophie Thémont, Laurence Zanchetta, Daniel Senesael. Flemish Interest Membres effectifs/Vast members: Annick Ponthier, Kurt Ravyts. Membres suppliers/Alternates: Katleen Bury, Ellen Samyn. MR Membres effectifs/Fast members: Magali Dock, Nathalie Gilson. Membres suppliers/Alternates: Kattrin Jadin, Michel De Maegd. CD&V Membres effectifs/Fast members: Jan Briers. Membres suppliers/Alternates: Els Van Hoof. PVDA-PTB Effective members/Vaste leden: Nabil Boukili. Membres suppliers/Alternates: Marco Van Hees. Open Vld Membres effectifs/Vast members: Goedele Liekens. Membres suppliers/Alternates: Patrick Dewael. sp.a Membres effectifs/Fast members: Ben Segers. Alternate members/Plaatsvervangers: Meryame Kitir. There are also two non-voting members: cdH: Georges Dallemagne. DéFI: François De Smet. I propose that the Vice-President, Mr Flahaut, replace me here so that I can install the committee. A chairman may then be appointed there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u57	So, Mr President, the committee is being set up, and we have now set it up as such. What does that mean, however, for the founding act? Is it going to be dealt with in that committee itself?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u58	The Conference of Presidents asked the Committee on External Relations to deliver an opinion. We received that advice yesterday. In the Conference of Presidents we had a discussion on this yesterday. All the House has to do is call the names of the members of the committee and install the committee. You know that at the Conference there were also questions about the experts. I have replied that it is the role of the special committee to reply. There were also questions about the dotation. That question will come back to the Conference in September to prevent the committee from flying on autopilot as far as the budget is concerned. We take the text, amended and approved in the Committee on External Relations, as the basic text. We will work on that basis, if that is all right with you, Mr De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u59	Mr President, yesterday Mr Piedboeuf said that he would amend that text.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u60	As such, this text is not the subject of an arrangement in plenary because we have worked under a different procedure. We have given an order to the Committee on External Relations. He has given us an opinion. That opinion was the subject of a vote in the Committee on External Relations, but I think it is a sufficient basis for putting the special committee to work. As such, the text of the opinion is not before the plenary. Do you agree with my proposal or do you think that there is too much duplication of some names? I propose that Mr Flahaut replace me in the chair before starting the debate on Taiwan. Meanwhile, I will proceed to the installation of the special Congo commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u61	Mr President, an opinion has been voted on in the Committee on External Relations. Will the special committee take the opinion of the Committee on External Relations for money or will it rework to produce its own opinion? As Mr Piedboeuf said, we have amendments to this opinion approved by the Committee on External Relations. We had abstained on this text, which sets out the tasks of the experts as well as that of the special committee. Is it the role of the Committee on External Relations to shut down the task of the special committee and can the task of the experts or the committee discuss the text again?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u62	I just told Mr. From Roover that the Conference of Presidents had asked the Committee on External Relations to give us an opinion on the constitution, composition and mission of a special committee, which the Committee on External Relations did. We took note of that opinion yesterday. The task of the plenary meeting today is only to make up the committee, to take note of the names that have been proposed. In addition, I am a strong supporter of the fact that each committee regulates its work. I said yesterday in the Conference of Presidents that the list of names of experts was only a proposal and that it was not yet binding on the Special Committee. I know that a discussion took place on the names and numbers of the experts, which is important in the context of the budget, given the cost of using an expert. It is important that some experts can already start their work during parliamentary leave in order not to waste time. This item will need to be discussed in the Special Committee. The only task of this House is not to discuss the opinion once again or to amend this opinion delivered at the Conference of Presidents, but to serve as the basis for the establishment of the committee. The other points will have to be discussed in the committee itself. I have given you the names given to me by the political groups, and I would now like to set up the committee. The Conference of Presidents asked for a report to be tabled in September on how we are going to work: with which experts, how many experts, on which budget? Do you agree? That corresponds to what we discussed yesterday. Mr Flahaut will replace me for the debate on Taiwan. I give him the place and, for my part, I will participate in the discussion on the Congo.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u63	The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of an effective francophone member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of a French-speaking, effective member of the Executive Board of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. Nominations were announced during the November 21, 2019 plenary session. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 21 November 2019. The Justice Committee held the hearing of the candidates on 7, 8 and 21 January 2020. Kristien Van Vaerenbergh reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 11 March 2020. On 7, 8 and 21 January 2020, candidates were heard by the Justice Commission. Ms Kristien Van Vaerenbergh reported on these hearings at the Conference of Presidents of 11 March 2020. In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 9 July 2020, a third ballot must be held for the vacant term of effective French-speaking members. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 9 July 2020, a third ballot should be organised for the open mandate of the effective French-speaking Member. In this third ballot, the relative majority is sufficient. In this third vote, the relative majority is sufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u64	The next item is the secret ballot for the nomination of the President, the alternate President and the alternate members of the Information and Opinion Centre on harmful sectarian organizations whose candidatures have been submitted directly to the House. The next item is the secret ballots for the appointment of the President, the deputy chairman and the alternate members of the Information and Advisory Centre on the harmful sectarian organizations whose applications were submitted directly to the Chamber. The Chamber shall appoint from among the actual members the President and the alternate President. The Chamber shall elect the President and the Deputy Chairperson from among its permanent members. Four alternate members are appointed directly by the House, by a two-thirds majority. Four alternate members shall be appointed directly by the Chamber with a two-thirds majority. Nominations were announced during the plenary session on 11 June 2020. Candidates were announced at the plenary session of 11 June 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u65	The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of a member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Centre for Health Care Expertise. The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of a member of the board of directors of the Federal Health Knowledge Centre. Nominations were announced during the plenary session on 20 May 2020. Candidates were announced at the plenary session of 20 May 2020. For the three appointment files mentioned above, the documents containing the names of the candidates were distributed to you. For the three nomination files mentioned above, you were provided with the documents containing the candidate lists. In accordance with the decisions of the plenary meetings of 25 June, 2 and 9 July 2020, members were able to vote from Friday 10 July 2020 to today 4 p.m. In accordance with the decisions of the plenary sessions of 25 June, 2 and 9 July 2020, Members were able to vote from Friday 10 July 2020 until 4 p.m. The two youngest members present are invited to attend the counting of the ballot. This will now take place in Room 3. The two youngest members present are invited to attend the vote. This will now take place in Room 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u66	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Georges Dallemagne, Els Van Hoof. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1206/8) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1206/8) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur, Mrs Jadin, referred to the written report. Speakers are Mr. Raskin, Mr. Cogolati, Ms. Samyn, Mr. De Maegd, Mrs. Van Hoof, Mr. Van Quickenborne and Mr Dallemagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as early as 2015, and also then in cooperation with Mr Dallemagne, we adopted a Taiwanese resolution with a large majority. That is never a sinecure, given the sensitivities of the great power China around there. At the time, in 2015, we had made a fourfold request to the government with the aim of cashing in the good relations that had been built up over the years before, and we advocated dialogue and the economic and international involvement of Taiwan. 2015 is not 2020. The situation has changed a lot. In 2015 there was still a certain amount of detente in the relationship between China and Taiwan, but since then the contrasts have only increased. Beijing openly proclaims that reunification is inevitable and, so to speak, turns the screws further on. This is completely contrary to the principle of equal rapprochement and respect for the principle of one China, two systems. The people of Hong Kong can tell us what that feels like. Our group therefore supports the new motion for a resolution for the following three reasons. Firstly, the text is, of course, in line with that of 2015, but is clearly more critical. While every word was really recited and weighed in 2015, this text is less diplomatic. That is, in our view, entirely right. Today's statement of support to Taiwan is, given the current situation in the region, even more important than that of 2015. Secondly, in the midst of the COVID-19 crisis, Beijing has really made every effort to prevent Taiwan from entering into meaningful cooperation with the World Health Organisation. We regret that. The demand for our support for Taiwan's re-entry into the World Health Organisation fits perfectly into the strategy to legitimise Taiwan and to strengthen bilateral interests and ties with that country. Thirdly, during the crisis, Taiwan was once again able to increase its prestige. Taiwan impressed with its approach to the crisis, and with the so-called mouth mask diplomacy it again convinced many allies. The further development of economic contacts between the European Union and Taiwan and its derived interests for Flanders and the whole of the country by enlargement are another pillar that raises the proposal for a resolution. We will therefore be supporting the text with great conviction in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u68	Mr President, I thank the first author of this text, Mr Dallemagne, for this initiative which we will also support from the ecological ranks. At least four elements are prompting us today to support this text in favour of Taiwan. First of all, there is respect for and promotion of human rights that are the rule in Taiwan and that bind us with that country. It is important to remind him. Taiwan is the first country in Asia to legalize marriage for all and that's where LGBT communities across Asia gather each year to celebrate Pride. Taiwan is also at the initiative of respecting the rights of indigenous peoples and the rights of indigenous peoples throughout the island. I would also like to thank colleagues for supporting our proposed amendment to support President Tsai Ing-wen's efforts to abolish the death penalty. The second element that urges us to strongly support this resolution is China's growing military pressure in the region. It is important not to turn around the pot in this assembly. We all know the situation in Hong Kong. We also know the military pressure off Taiwan by the People's Republic of China, and I think it is important to say things very clearly, to send a very strong signal from our assembly that, no, we will not accept any blackmail from China and that we will ensure that the human rights of all the people of Taiwan are maintained and respected. A third reason relates to the crisis of the VOCID-19 that we have just experienced. We had the demonstration within WHO that the exclusion of Taiwan at the negotiating table, at the international fora table, was counterproductive. We know how effectively Taiwan has fought against the VOCID-19 pandemic and I think it is important to have a more inclusive view of Taiwan in order to allow for more effective coordination at the international level. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I come to the fourth reason. I had the chance to visit the island with some of you and, as a result, I was able to see how the Belgian trading and economic partners were present in Taiwan to accompany the new government in the energy transition. You may not know that, but Taiwan decided a few years ago to leave nuclear power entirely to invest massively in future energies and renewable energy. It seems important to me to mention the links that bring us closer to Taiwan, particularly in terms of the offshore energy we develop thanks to the expertise and engineering of Belgian companies. Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore with some pleasure, but also with great determination, that we will support this motion for a resolution, once again to send a very strong signal for respect for human rights to the international community - particularly in the troubled period that this region of the world is going through.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Flemish interest has already raised the issue of Taiwan in several legislative times. Our proposal deals with the same problem as Mr Dallemagne's proposal, but goes even further by asking the government to formally recognise Taiwan. We will, of course, support Mr Dallemagne's motion for a resolution. However, I would like to make one more comment, which we also explained in connection with the amendment that has been forwarded. The requesting part, point 1, would like to add the words 'on an equal footing' between the words 'dialogue' and 'at all levels'. There is, of course, nothing against encouraging dialogue between Taiwan and China. However, it is important to call for this dialogue to be conducted on an equal footing. Taiwan is currently not considered an equivalent partner by the People's Republic of China. For China, Taiwan is a renegade province and talks are always going in the direction of the reunification of Taiwan with China, which is unacceptable to Taiwan. Accordingly, talks between both sides of the Taiwan Strait are by definition marked by reunification based on the unacceptable concept of one country, two systems, for Taiwan. In Hong Kong, moreover, it has been shown that such a concept does not work. The recognition by China of the equivalence of Taiwan and its sovereignty over the territories controlled by Taiwan is a condition which must be met before any dialogue is initiated or resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, Taiwan is the most accomplished democracy in Asia. The re-elected president is a Liberal woman, Tsai Ing-wen. As my environmental colleague said, it is the first country in Asia to allow the marriage of homosexuals. Of course, we will not hide that there are still major issues in Taiwan, including the abolition of the death penalty, of course. But to talk about it, you have to keep close ties. Our Parliament has developed close relations with the island. I myself went there with some of my colleagues on a parliamentary mission a few months ago to assess this market economy, which is tempered by a real social system. Taiwan, as has been said, has managed in a remarkable way the crisis of VOCID-19. We must support diplomatic efforts with our European partners to better include Taiwan in international organisations such as WHO and ICAO. We are also for the maintenance of high-level bilateral contacts with Taiwan. My group welcomes the resolution by my colleague Georges Dallemagne. We have amended this resolution with our partners in the Open Vld. We believe that there is a need for balanced relations, both with China and with Taiwan, especially at a time when the human rights situation, particularly in Hong Kong, is problematic. Taiwan has also experienced interference in its own electoral process, through China. Taiwanese human rights activists are being held by Beijing, and Beijing, it must be said, is indeed increasing its military presence in the China Sea. We have a multilateral role to play in strengthening these links, in particular through our trade contacts. It is true that a knowledge how and a Belgian know-how are present there to develop, for example, wind energy in the China Sea. We will therefore ensure that we support this resolution and send an unambiguous message to the authorities in the region to ensure that the integrity of Taiwan is preserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I very much welcome the motion for a resolution which is before the vote today. It is a balanced text, which can significantly strengthen Taiwan's international position. I would therefore like to thank Mr Dallemagne for his excellent cooperation. Taiwan is not legally recognised as a state, but as an autonomous government de facto. Taiwan has evolved over the past four decades towards pluralistic and inclusive democracy. The country is a bastion for freedom of expression and freedom of the press in a region where these freedoms are under severe pressure. During the COOVID-19 crisis, the knowledge and skills of Taiwan were very marked, while it was not recognised at international level, as it lost its observer position at the World Health Organisation. The European Union recognised the One-China policy, but has established extensive administrative and technical contacts with Taiwan since the 1980s. Many of you have already experienced the strength of parliamentary cooperation with Taiwan. We also confirmed this in a resolution in 2015, but unfortunately we have seen strong developments since then. China has strengthened its attitude towards Taiwan. The diplomatic isolation of Taiwan, which is only recognised by 15 states, is very striking, while in 2015 it was 20 states. It has also lost its observation position in the World Health Organisation. These developments have forced us to reaffirm our commitment to the Taiwanese people. In the first instance, the proposal for a resolution concerns a diplomatic and multilateral approach. There is no point in declaring unilateral measures such as recognition of Taiwan. This drives the existing tensions at the peak and would also undermine peace and stability in the region. During the hearing it was clear that the Taiwanese did not ask for this. So we need to maneuver within that diplomatic and multilateral framework and take all possible initiatives in it. I see two reasons for this. Firstly, as a democracy, Belgium and the European Union have a moral duty to assist other democracies who experience external pressure. We have to protect them. The second reason is that Taiwan is of great geopolitical importance. The European Union must set out its own geopolitical policy in a context of growing aggressiveness between two major powers, the United States and China. Since the March 2019 China Strategic Outlook, the European Union has opted for a policy whereby China, depending on the files, is a partner, a competitor or a rival. Het moto is corporate when you can, push back when you must. That is a very important model, but it only works if we sometimes dare to push back. That is why we need to clarify where our red lines are. We must not tolerate intimidation, which we all, as Members of Parliament, sometimes experience. We must defend our values and our interests more strongly. After all, the greatest threat to freedom is the absence of criticism. We cannot allow ourselves to be intimidated by this principle. Taking all these elements into account, I think that the resolution proposal has become a very good diplomatic but powerful text, which focuses on the following key elements: dialogue, in-depth relations and meaningful participation in international organisations. Finally, I would like to thank all my fellow Members for their cooperation, in particular Georges Dallemagne, in the drafting of this text. Hopefully, this can contribute to a Chinese-Taiwanese rapprochement and a strong international position in Taiwan.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u72	Mr President, it is a tradition in this House to express our support for Taiwan, either unanimously or by a large majority, at regular intervals. I would like to thank the initiators, Mrs Van Hoof and Mr Dallemagne, for making this possible again. Our group will approve the motion for a resolution because it is intended as a positive contribution to peace and stability by calling for a resumption of the dialogue between China and Taiwan. I don't need to remind you of Taiwan's special position. China still considers it a renegade province. The issue of sovereignty prevents Taiwan from being included in international organisations. This is, in some cases, very unfair, for example within the WTO, because Taiwan will not be able to take part in international initiatives to combat the corona virus. That is why the text rightly calls for Taiwan to play a significant role in such international organisations. The proposal is also not blind to the problems in Taiwan itself. For example, we point out that the death penalty still exists in Taiwan. We are therefore offering our technical assistance in the text so that we can continue the road to the abolition of the death penalty. Ultimately, everything will depend on China's willingness to talk about the schizophrenic situation. Our group sees it pessimistic. After all, China seems increasingly to be taking an authoritarian path. Last week, therefore, Mrs Gabriels of our group in plenary called for attention to be paid to the situation in Hong Kong, in which China violates the autonomy of that region and the agreements that exist. With this motion for a resolution, we express our support for all democratic and constructive forces in the region, in the hope of closer links between China and Taiwan, so that our country too can develop and maintain its relations with Taiwan in various fora.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u73	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank my colleagues who agreed to add this item to the agenda of the already very busy plenary session. I would also like to thank my excellent colleague, Els Van Hoof, who played a key role in the drafting and conclusion of this motion for a resolution on Taiwan's place on the international stage. As you know, this motion for a resolution was adopted by the Committee on External Relations on 8 July. The work that took place at the time, including hearings with the Asia Director of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who considered it a good resolution - it was important to hear it from a high-ranking diplomat, the representative of Taiwan, Mr. Harry Tseng, but also other experts - allowed us to move this resolution forward and to have a text that was both important, firm and balanced while remaining extremely sober in its approach to the issues. For those who do not follow the international news, Taiwan may seem a bit distant or a bit exotic. But it's not. The situation in Hong Kong, where freedoms are currently under pressure, is now known. The people of Taiwan are afraid to be next on the list, and they are right. Indeed, it is well known that China intends to stifle the status quo that prevails in its relations with Taiwan. President Xi Jinping said Taiwan would be reunited voluntarily or by force as part of his 2049 agenda. The pressure exerted on Taiwan by the Chinese authorities is indeed increasing. Among these pressures, some colleagues have already mentioned some, there is China's manipulation and massive interference in the electoral processes in Taiwan. There is computer hacking, the sending of millions of fake news to the Taiwanese population in an attempt to discredit its authorities. There is the detention in China of Taiwanese human rights activists. There is the exclusion of Taiwan, in 2017, under China's pressure from the World Health Assembly while it has been a part of it for a long time. There is also an increase in China's military presence in the China Sea, close to Taiwan. This exclusion from the World Health Assembly is particularly damaging in the context of the pandemic, as Taiwan, which was in front of the tsunami coming from the Wuhan region, is known to have managed this epidemic particularly well. Indeed, as of today, it records only 8 deaths and 452 cases, which is simply extraordinary and incredible. We would have had a lot to learn from this strategy if we had had Taiwan around the table at the World Health Assembly. That is one of the reasons why it is important that Taiwan is not systematically excluded from the international community and from forums where we can discuss such important issues and situations. This situation of very strong pressure on Taiwan does not seem acceptable to us. She got worse. That is why urgent and important diplomatic initiatives on the part of European diplomacy, including ours, seem indispensable to us. I say again: this resolution sends a measured message, without any form of hostility. It recalls the need for dialogue. It rejects the lock that closes on Taiwan. We hope, and we hear, that it will be carried by a very large majority of our plenary assembly. It is important that the voice of the Foreign Minister, who will defend its principles, be strong, firm, in relation to issues of freedom, democracy and security that concern, of course, the people of Taiwan, but which concern us all. In conclusion, I would like once again to thank Mrs Van Hoof for her essential contribution, as well as all the colleagues who have shown their interest and support in this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u74	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u75	• 10 years Annick Ponthier cs (1206/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u76	The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendment retained and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u77	By e-mail dated June 16, 2020, Ms. Martine Trznadel withdrew her application. Ms Martine Trznadel withdraws her candidacy by e-mail dated 16 June 2020. By e-mail dated June 17, 2020, Yves Derwahl withdrew his application. By e-mail of 17 June 2020, Mr Yves Derwahl withdraws his candidacy. By e-mail of 30 June 2020, the Selor communicates the results of the Dutch and German language tests of candidates for the mandate of French-speaking federal mediator. By e-mail dated 30 June 2020, Selor will report the results of the Dutch and German language tests of the candidates for the mandate of the French-speaking federal Ombudsman/woman. The following candidates shall meet the required linguistic level: - Mr. Jérôme Aass, Auditor with the Federal Ombudsmen - Mr. Philippe Vande Castele, lawyer at the Antwerp Bar. The following candidates may demonstrate the language skills requested: - Mr Jérôme Aass, auditor at the Federal Ombudsmen - Mr Philippe Vande Castele, lawyer at the counter in Antwerp. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 July 2020, both candidates will be heard by the Petitions Committee. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 July 2020, both candidates will be heard by the Committee on Petitions. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u78	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 July 2020, I propose that Mr Guido Herman be given the title of honorary Federal Ombudsman. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 July 2020, I propose that Mr Guido Herman be awarded the title of Federal Ombudsman. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u79	The government has informed me that it withdraws its request for urgency under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure for the draft law on a review of proportionality prior to the adoption or amendment of a regulation of profession, No. 1340/1. The Government informed me that it withdrew the request for urgency pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure for the draft law on a proportionality assessment prior to the introduction or amendment of a professional regulation, No. 1340/1. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u80	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u81	Appointment of the President Appointment of the President Voters 123 Stemmen White or invalid 5 Blank or invalid Valid 118 Geldig Absolute majority 60 Perfect majority M. Bert Broeckaert a obtenu 0 voix Mr Bert Broeckaert received 0 votes Mme Yvette De Weyer a obtenu 0 voix Mrs Yvette De Weyer received 0 votes Mr. Frank Judo obtained 2 votes Mr Frank Judo received 2 votes Mr. Dany Lesciauskas obtained 8 votes Mr Dany Lesciauskas received 8 votes Mr. Guy Rapaille obtained 80 votes Mr Guy Rapaille received 80 votes Mr. Eric Robert obtained 0 votes Mr Eric Robert received 0 votes Mr Thierry Wertz obtained 1 vote Mr Thierry Wertz received one vote. Mr. Luc Willems obtained 27 votes Mr Luc Willems received 27 votes Mr. Guy Rapaille, having obtained 80 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, is appointed President of the Information and Opinion Centre on Harmful Sectarian Organizations. Since Mr Guy Rapaille received 80 votes, which is the absolute majority, he was appointed Chairman of the Information and Advisory Centre on harmful sectarian organisations. Appointment of the alternate president Appointment of the Deputy Chairman Voters 124 Stemmen White or invalid 5 Blank or invalid Valid 119 Geldig Absolute majority 60 Perfect majority M. Bert Broeckaert a obtenu 0 voix Mr Bert Broeckaert received 0 votes Mme Yvette De Weyer a obtenu 0 voix Mrs Yvette De Weyer received 0 votes Mr. Frank Judo obtained 2 votes Mr Frank Judo received 2 votes Mr. Dany Lesciauskas obtained 0 votes Mr Dany Lesciauskas received 0 votes Mr. Guy Rapaille obtained 11 votes Mr Guy Rapaille received 11 votes Mr. Eric Robert obtained 8 votes Mr Eric Robert received 8 votes Mr Thierry Wertz obtained 1 vote Mr Thierry Wertz received one vote. Mr. Luc Willems obtained 97 votes Mr Luc Willems received 97 votes Mr Luc Willems, having obtained 97 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, is appointed as alternate president of the Information and Opinion Centre on Harmful Sectarian Organizations. Since Mr Luc Willems received 97 votes, which is the absolute majority, he was appointed deputy chairman of the Information and Advisory Centre on harmful sectarian organisations. Appointment of the two Francophone alternate members appointed directly by the House Appointment of two French-speaking alternate members directly appointed by the Chamber Voters 123 Stemmen White or invalid 18 Blank or invalid Valid 105 Geldig Two-thirds majority 70 Two-thirds majority Mr. Eric Brasseur obtained 94 votes Mr Eric Brasseur received 94 votes Mr. Frédéric Hoebeeck obtained 14 votes Mr Frédéric Hoebeeck received 14 votes Céline Rouge obtained 20 votes Mrs Céline Rouge received 20 votes Ms Mireille Stallmaster-Degen obtained 94 votes Ms Mireille Stallmaster-Degen received 94 votes 1. Mr. Eric Brasseur, having obtained a two-thirds majority, was declared a French-speaking alternate member of the Centre d'information et d'avis sur les organisations sectaires nouvelles. 1. Mr Eric Brasseur, who received the two-thirds majority, has been appointed French-speaking, deputy member of the Information and Advisory Centre on harmful sectarian organisations. 2. Ms. Mireille Stallmaster-Degen, having obtained a two-thirds majority, was declared a French-speaking alternate member of the Centre d'information et d'avis sur les organisations sectaires autiques. 2. Ms Mireille Stallmaster-Degen, who received the two-thirds majority, has been appointed French-speaking, deputy member of the Information and Advisory Centre on harmful sectarian organisations. Appointment of the two Dutch-speaking alternate members appointed directly by the Chamber Appointment of two Dutch-speaking alternate members directly appointed by the Chamber Voters 110 Stemmen White or invalid 22 Blank or invalid Valid 88 Geldig Two-thirds majority 59 Two-thirds majority M. Peter De Mey a obtenu 86 voix Mr Peter De Mey received 86 votes Mr. Tom Ruysschaert obtained 88 votes Mr Tom Ruysschaert received 88 votes 1. Mr. Peter De Mey, having obtained a two-thirds majority, was declared a Dutch-speaking alternate member of the Information and Opinion Centre on Harmful Sectarian Organizations. 1. Mr Peter De Mey, who received the two-thirds majority, has been appointed Dutch-speaking, deputy member of the Information and Advisory Centre on harmful sectarian organisations. 2. Mr. Tom Ruysschaert, having obtained a two-thirds majority, was declared a Dutch-speaking alternate member of the Information and Opinion Centre on Harmful Sectarian Organizations. 2. Mr Tom Ruysschaert, who received the two-thirds majority, has been appointed Dutch-speaking, deputy member of the Information and Advisory Centre on harmful sectarian organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u82	Voters 124 Stemmen White or invalid 0 Blank or invalid Valid 124 Geldig Absolute majority 63 Perfect majority M. Jan Bertels a obtenu 56 voix Mr Jan Bertels received 56 votes Mme Kathleen Depoorter a obtenu 68 voix Ms Kathleen Depoorter received 68 votes Ms Kathleen Depoorter, having obtained 68 votes, the absolute majority, is appointed as a member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Centre of Expertise in Health Care. As Mrs Kathleen Depoorter has received 68 votes, this is the absolute majority, she is appointed as a member of the board of directors of the Federal Health Knowledge Centre.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u83	Voters 123 Stemmen White or invalid 37 Blank or invalid Valid 86 Geldig Judicial world World of justice M. Samuel Dor a obtenu 0 voix Mr Samuel Dor received 0 votes Ms Isabelle Fontignie obtained 39 votes Mrs Isabelle Fontignie received 39 votes Mr. Michel Forges obtained 0 votes Mr Michel Forges received 0 votes Mr. Patrick Henry obtained 0 votes Mr Patrick Henry received 0 votes Ms Stephanie Mees obtained 3 votes Ms Stéphanie Mees received 3 votes Ms Katrin Stangherlin received 0 votes Ms Katrin Stangherlin received 0 votes Ms Oriane Todts obtained 0 votes Mrs Oriane Todts received 0 votes Civil society Civil society Mr. Hajib El Hajjaji obtained 0 votes Mr Hajib El Hajjaji received 0 votes Mr Bernard Garcez obtained 0 votes Mr Bernard Garcez received 0 votes Ms. Francine Esther Kouablan obtained 6 votes Mrs Francine Esther Kouablan received 6 votes Mr. Eric Libert obtained 2 votes Mr Eric Libert received two votes. Ms Stephanie Mees obtained 1 vote Ms Stéphanie Mees received one vote Mr. Pol Thibaut obtained 0 votes Mr Pol Thibaut received 0 votes Mr Damien Thiéry obtained 33 votes Mr Damien Thiéry received 33 votes Ms Véronique Waterschoot obtained 0 votes Mrs Véronique Waterschoot received 0 votes Social partners Social partners Ms Francine Esther Kouablan obtained 2 votes Mrs Francine Esther Kouablan received 2 votes Ms. Isabelle Fontignie, having obtained 39 votes, the relative majority, is appointed as an effective Francophone member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. Since Mrs Isabelle Fontignie received 39 votes, which is the relative majority, she was appointed a French-speaking, effective member of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. Article 11 of the Act of 12 May 2019 establishing a Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights provides that members shall be appointed for a period of six years and that every two years a third of the Board of Directors shall be renewed. Article 11 of the Law of 12 May 2019 establishing a Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights provides that members shall be appointed for a period of six years and that a third of the Governing Council shall be renewed every two years. Article 21, paragraph 2, paragraph 3, of the above-mentioned Act provides that for the first appointment of the members of the Board of Directors, the term of office shall be limited to one third to two years and for another third to four years in order to allow alternate renewal. Article 21 (2) third paragraph of the above Act provides that for the first appointment of the members, the term of office of one third of the members shall be limited to two years and for another third to four years in order to allow for the alternance renewal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 July 2020, I propose that you draw lots to determine the respective terms of office. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 July 2020, I propose to proceed with the drawing of lots for the purpose of determining the duration of these respective mandates. Two-year term: Two-year mandate: Francophone members: Franstalige leden:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u84	1. Isabelle Fontignie 2. Muriel Clavie Dutch-speaking members: Dutch-speaking members:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u85	1. Evelyne Maes 2. Willem Debeuckelaere Mandat de quatre ans: Four-year mandate: Francophone members: French-speaking members:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u86	1. Julie Lejeune 2. Jacques Fierens Dutch-speaking members: Dutch-speaking members:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u87	1. Koen Lemmens 2. Eva Brems Six-year term: Six-year mandate: Francophone members: French mandates:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u88	1. Olivier De Schutter 2. Isabelle Dean Dutch-speaking members: Dutch-speaking members: 1. Alain Bloch 2. Guy Cox
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u89	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of the proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u90	Mrs Pas, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1448/1 amending the tax scales provided for in Article 130 of the Income Tax Code 1992, in order to increase the duty-free minimum to the level of living wage as a COOVID-19 recovery measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u91	Mr President, unlike almost all the other groups in the hemisphere, my group has very rarely used the urgency procedure in recent weeks and months. However, at that time this had become more common than the exception. However, I would like to explain why we need to be able to start the proposal immediately in September in accordance with the urgency procedure. The High Council of Finance, which we recently heard in the Chamber, has presented six models for the reform of personal taxation. The senior officials of the Supreme Court stated as a minimum minimum, as an absolute baseline scenario, that the duty-free sum should be raised to the living wage. That is exactly what we are trying to do with the proposal. It is an important social measure, because the living wage is generally regarded as the limit under which no tax should be levied. It is a necessary corona restoration measure, which is why we are calling for urgency. We're not the only ones who say it's an important corona recovery measure. Even the VBO says the same in its 4x4-turborelance plan, which was presented in June. Even that organization supports such a social measure. That shows some common sense, and I hope you will show it. In corona times, we must avoid temporary unemployment becoming structural unemployment. A necessary recovery measure in the corona crisis is therefore that we reward work better again and certainly not discourage it. That's exactly the point of the bill. We are asking for support for urgency. We cannot ask this again in September, because the proposal was considered today and we would like to start the discussion in September immediately in accordance with the accelerated and urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u92	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on the request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u93	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Matters on 14 July 2020. The interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration on 14 July 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 22/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Jan Briers. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 22/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Jan Briers. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put that motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to show you the importance of our motion. Every year I have to interview the Minister for the Interior about the very poor results of the application of the language law by the Brussels administration, as demonstrated by the reports of the Vice-Governor of Brussels. This year the language report was again dramatically bad, which makes it worse in the context of the language reports of the last ten years, which are worse year after year. I'll give you one number. Barely 15.4% of the contractual recruitments to the Brussels municipalities were in line with the language legislation this year, which was only 4.7 % for the OMCWs. In the previous legislature, the then Minister for the Interior stated that he could not do anything about it, despite that not only we, but also the Council of State and the VCT showed that he did indeed have the power to change the power of destruction. Today, this power belongs to the Brussels government and is not being used. The governor issued a record number of suspensions this year, 1.829, but no suspension was turned into destruction. However, this is not an obligation, but an obligation. The Brussels government has been refusing to do so for decades. The current Minister for the Interior is right in saying that he does have the federal power to change that power of destruction, but he also opens the umbrella and states that he does not have the opportunity to do so today in the constellation of a temporary government with limited powers. With our motion for a recommendation, we want to give the Minister the opportunity to address the problem, because I do not want to see, on the basis of next year's language report, that almost 0 percent of contractual recruitment is in order. The situation needs to be radically reversed, and that deserves your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u95	Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u96	Yes 89 Yes No. [[46]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u97	Mr President, I have been informed that Mr Loones is not being logged in. He's got a technical problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u98	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u99	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 89 Yes No. [[47]] No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 145 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u100	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 107 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 37 Abstensions Total 145 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u101	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 78 Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 144 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u102	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 124 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 147 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u103	Vote on amendment No 29 by Reccino Van Lommel to delete recital F. (1355/6) Vote on Amendment No 29 by Reccino Van Lommel to omit recital F. (1355/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[17]] Yes No. 128 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 30 by Reccino Van Lommel in recital H. (1355/6) Vote on Amendment No 30 by Reccino Van Lommel in recital H. (1355/6) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u104	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 31 by Reccino Van Lommel to delete Recital I. (1355/6) Vote on Amendment No 31 from Reccino Van Lommel to omit recital I. (1355/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[18]] Yes No. 105 No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 147 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 32 by Reccino Van Lommel at the request 2. (1355/6) Vote on Amendment No 32 by Reccino Van Lommel on request 2. (1355/6) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u105	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 33 by Reccino Van Lommel at the request 3. (1355/6) Vote on Amendment No 33 by Reccino Van Lommel on request 3. (1355/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[42]] Yes No. 103 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 34 by Reccino Van Lommel at the request 4. (1355/6) Vote on Amendment No 34 by Reccino Van Lommel on request 4. (1355/6) Can we consider that the result of the vote on Amendment No 29 is valid for it? Can the result of the vote for Amendment No. 29 also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u106	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 35 by Reccino Van Lommel to delete the request 9. (1355/6) Vote on Amendment No 35 from Reccino Van Lommel to dismiss application 9. (1355/6) Can we consider that the result of the vote on Amendment No 31 is valid for that amendment? Can the result of the vote for Amendment No. 31 also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u107	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 36 by Gilles Vanden Burre cs to insert a request 10(n).(1355/6) Vote on Amendment No 36 by Gilles Vanden Burre cs to insert an application 10(n).(1355/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 59 Yes No. 73 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u108	Vote on amendment No 37 by Gilles Vanden Burre cs to insert a request 10(n).(1355/6) Vote on Amendment No 37 by Gilles Vanden Burre cs to insert an application 10(n).(1355/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 147 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u109	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 66 Yes No. 4 No Abstentions 78 Abstensions Total 148 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u110	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 147 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 147 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u111	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 127 Yes No. [[18]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u112	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 130 Yes No. [[18]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u113	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 147 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u114	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 116 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 30 Abstensions Total 147 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u115	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 81 Yes No. 65 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 146 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u116	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 144 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 144 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u117	Vote on Amendment No 21 by Sarah Schlitz cs to Article 2.(1064/6) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Sarah Schlitz cs on article 2.(1064/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 66 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u118	Vote on Amendment No 24 to Article 2 by Sofie Merckx.(1064/6) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Sofie Merckx on Article 2.(1064/6) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u119	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 25 of Sofie Merckx to Article 3.(1064/6) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Sofie Merckx on Article 3.(1064/6) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u120	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 22 by Sarah Schlitz cs to Article 3.(1064/6) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Sarah Schlitz cs on article 3.(1064/6) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u121	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 23 by Sarah Schlitz cs to Article 4.(1064/6) Vote on Amendment No 23 by Sarah Schlitz cs on article 4.(1064/6) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u122	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 26 of Sofie Merckx to Article 4.(1064/6) Vote on Amendment No 26 by Sofie Merckx on Article 4.(1064/6) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u123	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 27 of Sofie Merckx to Article 5.(1064/6) Vote on Amendment No 27 by Sofie Merckx on Article 5.(1064/6) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u124	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Vote on amendment No 28 by Sofie Merckx on the title.(1064/6) Vote on Amendment No 28 of Sofie Merckx on the title.(1064/6) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u125	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the title adopted. The amendment was therefore rejected and the title was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u126	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u127	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes [[115]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 30 Abstensions Total 145 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u128	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes 116 Yes No. [[11]] No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 146 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u129	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes 87 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 56 Abstensions Total 146 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u130	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 24) Yes 147 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 147 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u131	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 25) Yes 107 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 41 Abstensions Total 148 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u132	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 26) Yes 144 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 144 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u133	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 27) Yes 145 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u134	Mr President, I am a little late, but Mr Van der Straeten was mistaken. There was confusion about the proposal No. 75/6 by Mr Dierick. She wanted to abstain instead of vote against it. She urged us to share this with the plenum.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u135	That's noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u136	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 28) Yes 111 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 35 Abstensions Total 146 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u137	Vote on Amendment No 10 by Annick Ponthier cs on request 1.(1206/9) Vote on Amendment No 10 from Annick Ponthier cs on request 1.(1206/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 29) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 101 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 146 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the last voting time, I would like to thank a few people for our work over the last few weeks and months. For two reasons, it was not an easy way to work. A first element is that we do not have a government with a parliamentary majority. A second element is that we were faced with an unprecedented crisis. As far as the latter is concerned, I am pleased that Parliament was able to adapt its working methods fairly quickly, which has enabled us to help maintain Parliament's capacity for action during this difficult period. New methods have been introduced, which may raise the question of whether a previous introduction might have been possible. We are now voting by electronic means, which is not the most comfortable, but the votes are possible. Thanks to videoconferences, we have been able to meet both in committees and in plenary sessions. Parliament was there and I am quite proud of that. Of course, there is no majority. I do not have any consequences for this, since I want to remain in my role as President of the Chamber, but it does not make the work easier. Each week, exchange rates were fixed at the various votes. Those swinging masses turn in one direction and the other. If the pattern of these majorities were the same weekly, then of course we had a government for a long time. Now we find that this is not the case. This also has budgetary implications, which some of us in our assembly are concerned about. Another observation is that it will benefit us, in the system of checks and balances, that there will be a stable majority as soon as possible. It is not Parliament's role to govern and vice versa. Parliament must exercise control over the government, and we can do that, but Parliament lacks a framework for drawing up a budget so that effective forward-looking policies can also be pursued. However, we need this in our country in the coming weeks and months, especially in view of the international circumstances, the corona crisis and the necessary relance policy. That's my wish. I would be failing in my duty if I did not thank a number of people who have contributed to all of us parliamentary comfort. There are technological innovations on the one hand, but on the other hand there is daily support for our work. For this I would like to say 'thank you' clearly to the Registrar, his deputies and the Director-General of the Quaesture, but also without distinction to all staff here in the hemisphere, who give the best of themselves every day to assist us. The same applies to the interpreters, who are now present at the end. From October they will be visible in custom cabins, to improve their comfort. I would like to take this opportunity to mention this because we are disturbing them. I also thank the military commander and the personnel who provide our security here and around the Palais de la Nation. Nor do I forget the press and those who do what is necessary to follow us. There's one in the gallery. They prescribe with the necessary kindness what we sometimes do here and do not do either. I wish you all a wonderful holiday. It is customary for the chairman of the largest group to speak on behalf of Members of this House. That's Mr De Roover. So we are in happy expectation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u139	Mr President, I fully agree with the thanks you have expressed on behalf of all the Members. Allow me to share some thoughts with you at the beginning of the recess. Mr President, you have already pointed out a few drawbacks. In normal circumstances, we usually close our activities with very boring with predictable voting rounds. We must, of course, admit that these votes are now creating some atmosphere, because we are constantly rushing to the screen to see whether or not we have succeeded. That's the advantage. We are people and colleagues in the same profession. That profession is under a lot of pressure. We are getting a lot of blame, for example, because we cannot form a government. You pointed that out. Can I say against this background and in defence of ourselves that we do not have an easy appeal either? We were talking earlier about increased child abuse today, which is a very serious and terrible matter. It was stated at that time that the children were most affected by the corona crisis. That's actually not right. They've been hit by the lockdown. That brings me to the next thought. I do not want to criticise the fact of the lockdown, but I would like to say that we must be very aware that an obvious measure, which is extremely important and good at one level, often creates problems in the other. The example quoted this afternoon was very poignant. This means that we must be aware that, in our drive to solve all kinds of problems, we also occasionally create new problems. So we need to think carefully and show some modesty because it is about serious matters. For example, these days we are holding debates in the Committee on Constitutional and Institutional Renewal on freedom of the press and freedom of expression, crucial issues in our system. However, let us be honest, in the context of the corona crisis, we have discussed measures that have even affected the freedom of movement of citizens. Once again, I do not dispute that this is necessary in certain circumstances, but I call on everyone to understand how crucial and profound what we are doing for citizens' lives. Against the background of difficult government negotiations, this may sound strange and even almost provocative, but I would still like to say fetina spring. Let us, at certain moments, slowly rush into our regulatory drive. I wish both French-speaking and Dutch-speaking colleagues a good holiday and good health. Let us hope that we do not have to meet before September. That would mean very bad news. Don't take it personally, but I hope I won't see you again soon. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u140	It could also be about the policy statement of a new government, Mr De Roover. I suppose I can call you all back on vacation for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u141	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 30) Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 143 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-16-55-plenair-ip054x.u142	Happy holidays! The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, September 17, 2020 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Thursday 17 September 2020 at 2.15 p.m.
