ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-03-55-plenair-ip061x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-03-55-plenair-ip061x.u2	The next item is the vote on the motion of confidence tabled by the Prime Minister following the government's statement. The next item is the vote on the motion of confidence tabled by the Prime Minister following the government statement. We agreed to allow additional time for explanations of vote. The speaking time for opposition groups is ten minutes. The speaking time for majority groups and non-recognized groups is five minutes. We have agreed to allow extended explanations of vote. The speaking time for the opposition groups shall be ten minutes. That for the majority groups and the unrecognized groups five minutes. I would like to give you a second point: we also agreed not to start the debate again. So there are no interruptions allowed. It is a tradition during statements of vote. Please bear in mind that you do not use the names of fellow Members of this House, because that would allow you to ask for the floor for a personal statement. I would just like to remind you of the possibilities in the Rules of Procedure if they are to be used. I have been a group leader in the majority and in the opposition, so I know a bit of the two constellations. I call Mr De Roover, Chairman of the N-VA Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-03-55-plenair-ip061x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, Ministers and State Secretary. I want to get five points out of yesterday's rich debates. A first theme was that of the new political culture. Prime Minister, you said it was a positive debate without loud screaming. That is of course a difference from 2014, when the PS thought it was screaming, screaming and insulting to have to open the sessions. Mr Laaouej has shown a somewhat pale version of this. You've been able to get to know our way of opposing. It is very different: respectful, convinced and focused on content. But there was another difference with 2014. When the Swedish coalition government took office, we debated for two days, 27 hours. Of the 18 members of the government, 16 spoke. Mr Reynders and Mr De Crem are not. I suspect they were abroad. In 2020, we debated for one day, 10 hours less and only four out of 20 members of the government spoke. I have the impression that yesterday your ministers were not wearing mouth masks but a muzzle. They didn't say anything. And that was an important difference. In 2014, ministers and government members did not hide behind the Prime Minister's back, nor did the newcomers. When we talk about new political culture, this has been a very bad start. As you have said, Parliament can count on the government acting constructively in interaction with Parliament. In future, please admit all the ministers in the full debate with the Chamber. There's another difference with 2014. Prime Minister Michel did not accuse Members of sitting in a kindergarten, while you yourself made a mistake in interpreting the budget table. The discussion that has been taking place since then, including among people with a great deal of knowledge in this respect, shows that if a secondary pupil came up with such a budget table, he would be tubes. This was an unworthy document. So if you say that this government wants to take the fight against fake news very seriously, then I think it is less a matter of new legislation, but of own use of words. A second point. It has been said that the government is unisono about everything. That makes sense because it was about good-sounding but hollow vocabulary. Packing with pink bows round. You're throwing money around: every supporter of your coalition parties gets something. But you do not make choices about priorities, and that is the point, of course. You act as if there is no restriction on the money you have at your disposal. Choosing is losing. In this case, choosing the unity in your government is losing. That's why you don't make choices. Three. The check. You said here yesterday at your closing speech: why nervousness when it comes to this issue? It's only those with the greatest carrying capacity who will pay the bill, isn't it? That is also a beautiful invention, because everyone thinks: that is fair. However, the problem you have not mentioned is who you think has the greatest capacity. You kept your mouth shut about that. And so everyone who works, saves and takes a possible target from your treachery to money. That makes these people nervous. If you had said yesterday where you were going to get the money, many Flemings might now sleep a little more at ease. Or not. And that's why you didn't answer that. What struck me, by the way, is not a detail. I quote almost: we are experiencing an exceptional moment and that is, of course, the corona conditions. Is it then illogical, did you say, that those with the greatest carrying capacity take an exceptional step? Are you saying that you are not taking fiscal measures but one-off measures when that is exceptional? We're gonna stick to those words. Four. When it comes to the organisation of the country, a key problem that you would rather ignore, the word taboos fell. You said you don't have taboos, but you do. You have the taboo called Belgium. You do not want to take any steps to change that exuberant model. You spoke of a one-way street, pointing to our group and our party. Well, if we're doing one-way traffic, you're going in circles. At least our solutions go somewhere. You will return to the starting point. And, finally, and that is today's theme: the question of confidence. You said that we must not artificially feed the conflict. That's another sentence that nobody's gonna be against. Who would want to artificially feed the conflict? Politics must be about showing good will. Prime Minister, politics is also, and perhaps initially, about making choices. And, unlike the impression you gave yesterday, differences are not superficial and not necessarily based on misunderstandings. Since you don't make choices, you don't do politics. You are therefore asking blindly for confidence in the dolls. To be honest, I could not believe my ears when I heard you say yesterday that it was about development cooperation, but it was symbolic of your speech, I quote: the discussion on content I want to summarize in expressing my full confidence in Minister Kitir. That's actually enough for me. End of quote. Now, all sympathy for Mrs Kitir and not the person, because you meant every minister. You made that very clear. You've actually been a little derogatory about your government members. You have said, when it comes to content, I simply ask you to trust the person. We cannot assess your policy in this way. Because that's how you turn politics into a fairy tale that's told just before sleep. Perhaps the fairy tale "Snow White" and the seven dwarfs "Snow White." A vote of confidence, which is on the table today, should be about content, not about my degree of sympathy for one minister or another Secretary of State. That's not on the table here. On that basis, I cannot comment on your club. The purple-green thread throughout your speech can be summarized as follows: we smile at you with a Colgate-smile and you will discover later what lies behind it. That's not enough for us, Prime Minister. A vote of confidence must be about content. And as long as you continue to hide the content behind hollow slogans and blind confidence, actually we cannot even technically give you that confidence, because we do not really know what it is about. What we do have some indications about is another content that does not suit us at all, nor do I think the majority of the Flemish voters. We will not give you that confidence either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-03-55-plenair-ip061x.u4	So I can now give the floor to colleague Gilles Vanden Burre, for the Ecolo-Groen Group. I would just like to inform you that there are 16 voting cards left at the reception. I do not know which Members of this House do not yet have that card, but you will need it if you want to vote. Mr Vanden Burre has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-03-55-plenair-ip061x.u5	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, after lengthy debates, we confirmed to you, early this morning or late last night, it depends on how we see things, that we, our group, will give you our trust, with great hope and motivation. [[With the hope of embarking on a fair and ambitious ecological transition without leaving anyone at the edge of the road; with the hope of radically changing the tone and way of doing politics, in a calm, united way, by putting these values forward, by going to the bottom of the debates, but with respect, without antagonism, without stigmatizing, and I cannot prevent, at this level, from referring to the passionate speech of my colleague Kristof Calvo yesterday, who really showed the way in this matter; with the hope that all our citizens and fellow citizens will feel represented by this government, regardless of their place of residence, whatever their political convictions, whatever their mother tongue or whatever their colour of skin; with the hope, finally, that we can find ourselves, in a few years' time, and see that we have succeeded in reenchanting politics, but by concrete acts that have clearly improved the daily life, the daily life of our fellow citizens.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-03-55-plenair-ip061x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I told you yesterday, as I will tell you again today, the Socialist Group will give you its confidence. A balanced, ambitious government agreement, but above all a government agreement that gives the country and its people a new course and hope. A government agreement marked by very strong axes: refinanced health care, enhanced social security, improved pensions and, in particular, the lowest pensions that will be increased, an ambitious recovery plan and, above all, respect for human dignity and democratic values as the cement of the new majority. So yes, Prime Minister, you said yesterday and you're right: you have enough skills around you, enough quality people to succeed in this project. A new project, a project that will restore cohesion in our country, which will build on values because today, what the population needs, is that we meet its expectations. These expectations are social, these expectations are legitimate, and we will all have to live up to these expectations and challenges. So, Prime Minister, I also appeal to you, never hesitate to rely on Parliament whenever it seems to you that it is necessary, whenever it seems to you that the support of parliamentary democracy will enable you to succeed in your projects. Good luck to all, good work and above all before!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-03-55-plenair-ip061x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, you said yesterday in your reply that you missed the essence of this agreement in its almost seventeen-hour discussion. That is not surprising: there is no essence in your agreement. In order to be there, seven lots of water have put in the wine so much that even Christ can't make it drinkable. It's a collection of trophies, trophys that don't represent much, they're actually tombola prices that you can't even sell afterwards on a flea market, but well, they're trophies: for each party something, but nothing for the future, in other words nothing for the voter. And nothing concrete either: woolly generalities, vagueness, ambiguity, contradictions. We now know that this solidarity tax is going to come. But you really have no idea how you're going to do that. And you haven't the faintest idea who's gonna pay for that either. What you really need to look at is the budget table, you said yesterday in your reply. I'd like to, Mr. Prime Minister, but that table is a soup: soup with letters and numbers. One line is made cumulative, but the other one isn't. Because if all the figures in your table were cumulative, there would have been three years of negative relance. Your table's been scrambled. And that's a harbinger of tampering and clean appearances. Purple seems all the way back. Purple was a nicely wrapped disaster. Purple, that meant 27 billion euros in this country, and that was then in a boom without a corona crisis. We are still bearing the consequences to this day. And you also do windowdressing, just like when you did: you spend money that isn't there, the debt mountain runs up and the invoice moves you to the next generations. Expenditure, there are; it is already covered in the debates and now, but the necessary reforms are being postponed. Almost everything is being put on the long track with a horizon up to 2030, so that your government can't even be reckoned with. That's how Conner's bomba can successfully play prime minister. As you yourself said in your reply, the essence is how this coalition agreement is going to change the lives of citizens in this country. It will change their lives. They're gonna have to go through it very hard and pay a lot of money. The urgent, necessary and requested turnaround on state structures, security, migration, tax burden, you name it, is not going to happen with this Vivaldi coalition. There's no change of course. Your coalition agreement is nothing more than shifting the furniture on the Titanic. And everyone's priorities... as you prioritize achieving a gender balance in the distribution of government posts, you have completely forgotten the balance between the coalition agreement and the electorate's will. Prime Minister: respect, democracy and trust. Those were three key words from your government statement, three key words that you emphasize. So you are counting on respect, even though this government itself did not have any respect for the electorate. Your mate and government partner Conner Rousseau says today in an interview that he really likes that Flemish Interest and N-VA have been eliminated. So the chairman of a mini party likes it, cool, nice that almost two million voters are spitting in the face. Prime Minister, in addition to respect, you speak of democracy, but your government (and every sensible person knows that) has no democratic legitimacy in Flanders. And then you were talking about trust. It was almost touching how you expressed your full confidence in your ministers yesterday. Your team already has a very strong binding force, a great fear of democracy in practice, a great fear of elections. And you said that within your government each other is being listened to. It should be fucking wrong! Wasn't that the case with all these Vld-governments over the last 20 years perhaps? I give you these cozy tea parties as ministerial councils. However, it is a pity, alas, that there are actually revenge calls for each other to be listened to, but not for the voter to be listened to. And that is the difference between you and me, between our two parties, between the Flemish interest and your government. We listen to the people. We're listening to signals from voters. You will therefore find the opposition party par excellence in us, even if you did not want to hear from that electorate. We will bring him and her to the hearing day after day and from this day on, rest assured! Prime Minister, you are asking us about trust when you do not even enjoy the confidence of the people. We were able to read the latest polls on this in the paper yesterday. Your question of trust is actually the simplest question I have ever had to answer in Parliament. You're not getting it. You won't even get it from the Flemish people. Then you obviously do not get it from the Flemish Interest either. And as your written, spoken messages have burst with positivity over the past few days, I would also like to end positively, Prime Minister. I heard a vice prime minister from you in the TV studio last night proclaim that this government is the last chance, the last chance for Belgium as a country. Well, Prime Minister, that is a very positive thing for me and for many of us. I consider Vivaldi to be an even stretch of suffering, unnecessary, somewhat therapeutic persistence. But after this, after this Belgium is done. No avanti but finito. And then we can finally move forward with Flanders and Wallonia!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-03-55-plenair-ip061x.u8	Mr President, in a democratic state, it is the majority that makes the government, it is not unanimous – it is in totalitarian countries. So, don't listen to part of the population, actually, when you have a majority, you're not 100%, but good... I see in this government youth, experience, quality as well, and diversity. There is diversity in government, there is diversity in our groups as well. We have opposed, in the past, certain themes – on taxation, on health care – we have debated, we have views, visions that are getting closer, on others our points of view are distant. We will have to synthesize between ourselves, we will confront, and we will find – on taxation, certainly, on the status of artists, on social security... When I started my career, in 1989, an old PSC said: From the shock of ideas comes light. I thought, what does he mean? Then, throughout my journey, I am not aware that it was true: it is by confronting ideas, articulating ideas, that one ends up finding paths. I am sure that our majority, which does not represent 100 per cent of the population, but which represents the majority of the population, will find the paths for a programme that we have put forward as liberal (I begin with that), social and sustainable. This is the synthesis of what it takes today to lead the way to tomorrow. So, ladies and gentlemen of the government, in your diversity, in your youth, in your experience, you will receive the full confidence of the Reform Movement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-03-55-plenair-ip061x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we had a predictable debate where there was right to be, and so it should also be in a democracy, criticism of the opposition and defence of a united majority. For Flemish Christian Democrats it is important that a government agreement responds to the needs of the people, to the needs of what lives on the Dorpsstraat. Yesterday, during the debate, the word "study office" was mentioned here. I have today, this morning, from an internationally renowned study agency that studies every month what people live around the world and also in our country... And that changes. What are the main concerns of the Belgians according to that agency in the month of July, the most recent figure? And I list them: social inequality, poverty, of course corona crisis and health care, taxes, unemployment, crime, climate and migration. If I compare the results of that research firm with the content of the coalition agreement, I say: this coalition agreement sets the right priorities. This coalition agreement provides balanced answers by moving forward and not by making tabula rasa with the policies of previous governments, but by ensuring that everyone is involved, by strengthening health care, by guaranteeing social security funding, by strengthening people's purchasing power and by combating poverty. A final figure from the National Bank: 20% of our households have lost more than 10% of their income in this health crisis. 44 percent of our households, almost half of them, only have a savings buffer of less than three months. Creating jobs by giving entrepreneurs a boost. Making taxation fairer, investing in justice and security, robust and humane migration policies and preparing a new reform of the state structure. Ladies and gentlemen, this agreement brings an end to a political impasse and, yes, Prime Minister, we had doubts. We had doubts because we initially had a different majority in mind. But when you're in doubt, you think. If you are in doubt, then you build up arguments and then if you change course, you do so after making the necessary considerations. And yes, we have also come to the table with doubts. We have, on the other hand, found that there was a desire between the seven parties to cooperate, that there was the will between the parties to take account of each party's priorities. There's nothing wrong with that. That is how it should be in a democracy that is fragmented and where coalition partners have to find each other to build a majority. I'm going to use a word, Prime Minister, which you know well. I had doubts. I've been thinking. I've made my decision. I fought for it internally in my party. I've been negotiating hard with you guys, but I've been getting a lot more appetite for it every day. I would like to say one thing to the Flemish colleagues from the majority: we have only one mission and that is a success. And there's only one way we can do it. That's by not catching each other flies by giving each other something. We have an important democratic mission to every Fleming, every Fleming. And to the French-speaking fellow Members of the majority, I say: we will show empathy for what lives with you. This is extremely important in a majority. Also help with that same openness of spirit to prove to all Flemings that this country works, that this country has a bright future. In that sense, I would ask you to show empathy. And fellow Members, a strong Flanders in a governmentable country is not a taboo for us. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm finishing up. You have a team with a mix of experience and new talent. I wish you all a good ride. The chairman: Something about your time, Mr Verherstraeten, but I remembered that desire.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-03-55-plenair-ip061x.u10	Mr Prime Minister, yesterday you said that there was a need for a binding statement. I agree: there must be a binding story to be told in our country. The problem is that our society is not binding. Dear colleagues, someone who works at Colruyt, do you know how much they make? 13 euros per hour, 13 euros per hour! And how much fortune does Mr. Jef Colruyt have? 3.2 billion euros. 3.2 billion euros! And during the corona crisis, 20 percent more sales. In our country, 92 000 people went to the food bank in 2010. How much is that today? How many people are at the food banks today? 195,000 people at food banks, 100,000 more people. In the same period, Belgium has increased from one to thirty billionaires in euros. Then stop! Stop talking to us about a story that will bind everyone, if we do not take strong political steps to restore social justice in our country. And here, ladies and gentlemen, I must confess that I am a little disappointed with the measures that are being taken. Yesterday, we addressed issues important to the election campaign, such as the 67-year-old pension issue. Several parties, including the Socialist Party with Mr Di Rupo, had said: we will only go into a government on one condition, sine qua non, is that we will bring the pension back from 67 to 65 years. Same at the sp.a. It's a breaking point, a breaking point, getting into the government. Why, dear comrades, have you dropped such an important point? People are tired. People have to work and there is no logic to make people work for up to 67 years. For us it is clear as a left: a breaking point is a breaking point. We should have fought to bring the retirement age back to 65, colleagues. 1 500 euro net for a pension. We fought for this when our chairman, Peter Mertens, launched a campaign four years ago at ManiFiesta, our national party, to bring a pension to EUR 1 500 net. Four years later, 180 000 citizens signed our initiative to continue this fight, so we were pleased when we heard that "it is EUR 1 500 net'. But as it turns out, ladies and gentlemen. It's not a net, it's gross. Let's figure it out together! We have to stop making fun of people, we're gonna figure it out together. You already have an agreement for a pension of 1,580 euros gross, no party challenges that figure. We're going to calculate the net together: how much is it? 1 450 euros net. Let's take inflation for five years. We're going to take 1.5%, projection of the Plan Bureau – I'm kind, because the European Central Bank, for its part, targets 2%. But we're going to round to 1.5%, because we don't have to exaggerate. 1.5%, you count, how much do you get in purchasing power equivalent? [[At 1,365 euros. 1 365 euros in 2024.]] Today, how much is the minimum pension? At 1,291 euros. So in five years there would be an increase of 74 euros on minimum pensions, i.e. 5 % increase. When I hear today some parties that will defend in front of the population that there will be increases of 20%, these are lies. So, that you haven't managed to get all the gains, I can understand that. But the left, it needs clarity. The left, it needs truths to know how to mobilize, to know how to go for victories, and not to throw powder in the eyes of people, because 74 euros or 200 euros is a big difference for pensioners in this country. Third topical issue that the PTB has included in the political debate, which it has put on the table, because we are campaigning and dominating this political life, that we can impose the subjects to be debated: taxation on wealth. We've been talking about it for 30 years. We were also happy with the PVDA: finally a power load! She's coming! It's been under discussion for 30 years. What do I read this morning in the newspaper Le Soir? Mr. Magnette announced a wealth tax in 2021. Yeah, we're happy! But I walk through the same bookshop and buy L-Echo... and what do I read in L-Echo? That a symbolic effort will be asked of the richest... Who are we laughing at? The budget item is EUR 300 million. 300 million euros! Some even speak of 200 million. The percentage of the richest population in our country has a heritage of 500 billion euros. This means that the return on this famous tax on big fortunes will be 0.06%. Dear friends, dear colleagues, dear comrades, we must stop making fun of people. We don't want symbols. We want a real budget alternative. We have our proposal, the millionaire tax, or the PS proposal, which is estimated at 2.4 billion euros, because we believe that the people, that the workers do not need symbols, but that they need a budgetary alternative. They need 7 to 8 billion euros, which they want to see invested in social services, in health care, in social policy. We need an alternative and it is clearly the tax on wealth that is the solution, dear friends, colleagues and comrades. Yesterday we searched all day: what was that wealth tax? There was the big debate, and today there is another newspaper, De Standaard not to mention them, with an interview by Mr Magnette, with the question: what is this wealth tax? What does Mr Magnette say on page 13? "We ask for a contribution from the highest assets, not transactions. But for more information, you will have to contact the Minister of Finance." That's very useful because De Standaard had an idea on page 15: interview with the chairman of the party that supplies the finance minister, Mr Joachim Coens. So these genius journalists from De Standaard ask these questions: Mr Joachim Coens, is there going to be a millionaire tax, a levy (because Mr Magnette said you should ask the Minister of Finance for an explanation)? What does Mr. Joachim Coens of the CD&V say? "No agreement has been reached on the contribution of persons with the greatest capacity." [[Slight hilarity in the room]] Colleagues, can you carry on like this? That's not serious for the people at home! It's not serious, it's not serious, it's really making fun of people, it's taking trophies really, you can't accept that. Stop lying to people, that's what you have to tell them. So, it's trophies on the left to try to sell a policy of continuity of Sweden. You will continue in all these reforms. So I will make it clear to the people who voted for us and to the people as a whole: this is our strategy for the years to come because there will be three blocks. The Vivaldi bloc, which will continue the austerity policy, the Swede policy, the flexibility policy, we know your programme. The block of the separatists, the block of hatred, of the divide-and-master politics, of those who say: stomp down, down, to the Walls, to the Flemings, to the dopers, to the unemployed, to the migrants. And then you have us, the left-wing opposition. [[Hilarity in the room]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-03-55-plenair-ip061x.u11	Yeah, you guys are nervous, yeah, we saw that! On the left we are proud of the opposition! We continue with what we have been doing for five years, the left-wing opposition to solidarity. Yes, I know that's a problem for the N-VA, you're going to see that, you're going to experience something with our left-wing opposition! You're going to see what our concrete way of opposing is. Which one is that? That's like the white fury sector, the white fury fund. This is our way of doing things: with an amendment of 400 million, and the fight. With civil society, with the trade unions, with all those protesters on the street, with all those people in the healthcare sector together, we're gonna do something. I say it to all those people: we are going to continue for three or four years to build up such an opposition, as opposition as that of the PVDA, which has shot down the turtletak. How did we do that? With tens of thousands of signatures. That's our way of opposing with the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-03-55-plenair-ip061x.u12	You have to close.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-03-55-plenair-ip061x.u13	Mr President, our pensions, of course! 1,500 net, we're going through with this! 180 000 people have signed. I say this for the hemisphere: the PVDA asks that our citizens' initiative be discussed in Parliament as soon as possible for EUR 1,500 net. That has to be discussed in Parliament. And so, I'll close here. From this speech, of course, I will not surprise you by saying that the PTB-PVDA will not give you confidence for the government to come, but every constructive proposal, every positive proposal, will be supported for the benefit of the workers and for the benefit of the workers of this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-03-55-plenair-ip061x.u14	Mr Prime Minister, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, of course we had a whole debate last night. I have just heard Mr De Roover complain that it was not possible to intervene thematically. That, of course, also had to do with the attitude of some of those group members who, if someone was standing here, put all kinds of questions thematically, which made it rather late last night. I've been standing there for three hours to answer all sorts of things. And it wasn't so obvious to make progress in that way. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that until I heard Mr Hedebouw earlier, my conclusion so far has actually been that the opposition has been quite uninspired in the past 24 hours. We have an opposition saying, on the one hand, that this is the continuation of Swedish policy, and that is what Raoul Hedebouw said just now, because there are all kinds of things that have happened under Swedish policy that are being continued. But, Mr Hedebouw, you also stand for a social policy, and that is what you say, you stand for the ordinary worker who also wants to earn a living, who wants a decent job. Now, Mr Hedebouw, such jobs do not come out of the sky, such jobs and social services and social justice, created by people who undertake and start businesses in our country, who get the oxygen to do so, who get the freedom to do so, and that is something you are actively fighting against. Those are the ones who make sure that the people you claim to argue for, that they have a job, that they have that job, that we have income and that we can pay social security. And your model leads to direct poverty in our country, while others on this team stand for prosperity and social progress. Then we have another opposition on the other hand, which says something completely different from Mr Hedebouw. He says: yes, this is a purple-green project and that makes the CD&V a bit nervous. I haven't seen much nervousness with Mr Verherstraeten who's always been more anxious. A purple-green project, not a Flemish majority. Yes, not a Flemish majority, the democratic rules, colleagues, are what they are. If you have an alternative, make one, find partners to form a government. But if you fail to do so, stop criticizing those who manage to create a coalition. Colleagues, an opposition who says that this government is going to raise taxes, and who at the same time puts a document online, where she herself was going to write a policy text in which she was going to introduce a capital gain tax for 4 billion on everyone who works, saves and does business in Flanders, has no credibility whatsoever. An opposition advocating labour market reforms and putting on-line a text containing one sentence about labour market reforms has no right to speak of this shift that wants to make progress on the labour market. Mr. Prime Minister, you must not concern yourself with this. We will fight in parliament for your diverse team, well-compounded with competent men and women, and we will defend them with our hands and arms in parliament, and we have every confidence that your government will do what is needed in this country. This country, like many other countries, is in a full public health crisis and now people really need to feel that politics is taking the country back into its hands. Giving confidence. Communicating well, preventing that second lockdown, taking care of the people who are having a hard time and ensuring that people whose health is compromised are helped where they need help. This coalition agreement is a broad central agreement in which many citizens can recognize themselves and, yes, confidence in politics will have to be restored. After two years of standstill, that doesn't make any sense either. And that will be the challenge of this team, but if I have seen the collaboration over the last 48 hours, how everyone here has spoken in this team, how they fought for each other, respected each other's symbols, respected each other's sensitivities, worked constructively with each other. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, we will restore confidence in politics. Alexander, my good friend. We've been walking our path together all along, and I know you very well. I know what your abilities are to build a team and a team around you and get them to work well together, to respect everyone in it. With this diverse team we are going to meet beautiful years and our group will give the confidence to your government with a great deal of conviction. Good luck!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-03-55-plenair-ip061x.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a very important vote: after 21 months our country will finally have a full government again. It was high time, because we are facing a major health crisis, we are in the middle of it. We are facing a major economic crisis, and confidence in our country and politics also urgently needs recovery. This vote of confidence is not only the end of a long period of political stagnation. It is also a new start, because the work is just beginning. The challenges are great, but our group has the utmost confidence in them. We have confidence in the coalition agreement and in the team in front of us. Especially since this team also chooses to invest. Investing in healthcare, jobs and pensions. Investing in more security, in a healthy planet, in people and in the future of people. Colleagues, investing now is the only thing that will really help our country to overcome Corona, to fight the economic crisis and to build a new future. The new government team also chooses to invest in confidence in politics by achieving results, by proposing concrete solutions to people's daily concerns and by respect, collegiality and cooperation. That's important. Yeah, it's a different government with seven parties. But during yesterday's debate, I felt, above all, the firm will from the government, from the majority parties, to pull together. Each with our accents but with each other and not against each other. Ladies and gentlemen, the sp.a Group will be voting for it with great conviction in a moment. For the choice to invest heavily in social policy, for the choice to invest heavily in security and for the choice to invest heavily in a healthy planet, because that is the only way our country can move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-03-55-plenair-ip061x.u16	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's debates have allowed us to confirm that your government agreement has good intentions, but also a lot of nebulas behind which lies the best and the worst. The Vivaldi definitely bears her name. There are four seasons, with the promises of spring, summer, but also the sometimes chilly cold of autumn and winter. In front of all these nebulas, only the future will tell us what will happen. Since the opposition, we will be playing a stinging role. We will support the projects we carry ourselves. We will also do our utmost to advance a more equitable, inclusive society project that supports those who commit themselves, those who undertake, whether professionally or voluntarily. A project that focuses on solidarity and responsibility. We will also be uncompromising every time your government tries to wrap up the reality, because, let's be honest, these past few days leave us puzzled. We heard the trainers, the negotiators, some ministers speak in the media about a minimum pension increase of 284 euros net or not, about taxes in addition, yes but no, about the access of finance inspectors to the bank account of all citizens or not... These are just a few examples. Put yourself two minutes in the place of the citizens who hear you, who believe you, but who risk disillusioning. Don't forget, trust, it gets in drops, but it gets lost in liters. As politicians, we have a duty, a duty of exemplaryness, righteousness and honesty. After all these months of grieving political games, it is high time to have a government, which is why we will abstain today in the vote of confidence. We give you the benefit of the doubt, even if everything remains to be done. Your government must commit to all Belgians. Belgian citizens expect two things from politics. First, that they act in a coherent, effective, ambitious way, but then that they have a speech-truth. This speech-truth is what you must tackle today. I will end by quoting a great lady, the great lady of the Supreme Court of the United States, Ruth Bader Ginsburg. She said, "Fight for the things that you care about, but do it in a way that will lead others to join you!" That is what all policies must do. Good luck!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-03-55-plenair-ip061x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the parties that do not want this government, presented us last night with a just lamentable spectacle of parliamentary obstruction. These parties, who today dare to give us lessons of democracy, eventually confiscated the important thematic debate that we should have on this general government policy statement. My party refuses to participate in this opposition, both in substance and in form, because, for these parties, only a government with themselves would be representative of the population, only that government would have legitimacy, only a government that would decouple our State Belgium would be legitimate. Well, no! I have a scoop for you, ladies and gentlemen, to govern a country, we must want to make it work, we must want to make it effective. And make it effective, yes, because we care about this country, but also and above all, because we are today, and you know very well, in the face of an unprecedented health, economic and social crisis, which calls for structural responses and which calls us all to our senses of responsibility. Our fellow citizens are fed up with small political games, insults, ego wars, sterile attacks, simplisms that make them look like fools. Like many of my young colleagues here in the assembly, but also in this government, I am absolutely not in this old policy. This old policy that you yourself extremes, populists, criticise to l'envi, but from which only you ultimately profit. Our fellow citizens have suffered enormously from this crisis. They also suffer from this chronic disinvestment in our health care, our police, our justice and our public services. They want a real recovery plan for our economy, they want help to keep their jobs or businesses, they want to live decently from the income of their work, but also after a whole life of work serving the community. What you did yesterday, colleagues from the extreme right and the extreme right, is finally listening to you speak because you are unable to listen to the real concerns of the people of this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-03-55-plenair-ip061x.u18	It is precisely in order to respond to these concerns that this government must succeed, and that is why we are part of a logic not of vociferous and destructive opposition, but of constructive opposition. My colleague François De Smet noted yesterday the shortcomings, inconsistencies and inaccuracy of this agreement. The failure to take into account the arduous professions in the calculation of the pension despite your willingness to reward the work, the commissioning, also, of this famous and important dossier of the IVG, despite your will to make the woman, equal to the man, not only in the composition of a government, but in her choices of life. I would also add the continuation of the Masterplans of the former Minister of Justice, despite your will, too, for a future-oriented and reintegration-oriented prison policy. I am also thinking of maintaining the INAMI quotas, despite the shortage of doctors that this crisis has brought to light and your willingness to offer what is ultimately required of all the healthcare staff, namely more arms. We will remind you, ladies and gentlemen, as many times as it takes, but we will do so in order to strive for a better, to ensure that no one is forgotten, to ensure that everyone can emancipate, can be recognized and respected. It is only in this way that we will succeed in restoring the confidence that you mentioned this Thursday, Mr Prime Minister. So I would not make the suspense last longer, we will abstain from this government declaration because it contains, it is true, undeniable social progress: the paternity leave at 20 days, the end of the confinement of children, a reform of the state which will finally be based on rational rather than identity. But besides that, we still have to be good accounts, unfortunately there is still too much blur, too much abstract, too much uncertainty. We will therefore help you to give concrete substance to these beautiful intentions because, in these difficult and uncertain times, I think that is the least we owe today to our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-03-55-plenair-ip061x.u19	Mr President, I was able to give my opinion at quarter to two last night, so I shall make it very brief. I think that the government should reflect the will of the people, and to know the will of the people, elections are organised. We organised elections for the formation of this government on 26 May 2019. Those elections showed that five of those parties that now want to form that government coalition have been beaten up by the electorate, a lack of confidence, a lot of rattle that was so big for two of those parties, not to mention the CD&V and the sp.a that they were the biggest in their history. What do the midgets do? The midgets are now standing on each other's shoulders and they think they're a giant. They've lost 21 room seats. They lost 640 000 voters in this election. And now they're all gonna shack up to form a government and rule out the two biggest parties in this country with two million voters. Prime Minister, I am a democrat, and if you do not have the confidence of the people, then you will not have my trust. I am voting against this vote of confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-03-55-plenair-ip061x.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we have reached the end of our work. For my part, I believe that this is the first time that a national parliament has been hosted in this House of the European Parliament. In my view, this is an unprecedented form of interparliamentary cooperation between a national parliament and the European Parliament. And what I would like to do is to thank, on behalf of the Chamber of Representatives, all of you, the President and the Bureau of the European Parliament for making their hemisphere available in that short space of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-03-55-plenair-ip061x.u21	For that, I would like to ask you to give a strong applause. Of course, all the staff of the European Parliament and our own staff, who followed us here. Thank you all! Ladies and gentlemen, we can proceed to the vote. I put the motion to the vote. I put the motion to the vote. Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check their voices? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 1) Yes 87 Yes No 54 No. Abstentions 7 Abstentions Total 148 Total The motion of confidence was adopted. The motion of confidence has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-03-55-plenair-ip061x.u22	I have just received a message from the Open Vld Group informing me of the appointment of Mrs Maggie De Block as Group President. I have just received the message from the Open Vld Group about the appointment of Mrs Maggie De Block as chairman of the political group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-03-55-plenair-ip061x.u23	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, October 8, 2020 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Thursday 8 October 2020 at 2.15 p.m.
