ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u1	Mr Rigot, as you have tabled six questions, I give you three minutes to summarize them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u2	Mr. President, this is your role. You have imposed a method that has not been the subject of consensus. In the future, I would dream that we could discuss our way of working upstream, so as not to waste time on the minister and Members of Parliament. I put six questions. What do you want me to say? I'm not here to show. Minister, I would simply ask you to answer our questions about closed centres, where there are many dramatic situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister, during our last exchange, you confirmed the opening of an additional reception centre in Sijsele with a view to gradually deburring the existing network and thus allowing easier compliance with the distancing measures that are necessary for all. This is an important announcement, but it brings with it additional questions that I would like to share with you today. Minister, what schedule and priorities will the transfers to this new centre take place? In this scheme, what is the ambition in relation to the centres of Tournai and Mouscron which, to date, have the largest concentration of residents of the country? Are specific measures envisaged, in the context of these transfers, to ensure the follow-up of displaced applicants? Indeed, the people concerned have probably started learning one of the two or three national languages and have probably integrated into aid and solidarity networks. Furthermore, the gradual reduction in the number of persons in the centres concerned does not in any way reduce the need for a high level of supervision in the present circumstances. So can you make sure that the opening of this new centre will not have an impact on employment in the centres benefiting from the transfers? Finally, are other centres intended to be opened in the near future? If so, where and within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u4	Madam Minister, you recently regained your trust as Minister of Health, Asylum and Migration, two very difficult areas. This appears to be completely impossible when we combine these two domains. What we have been through very recently in the municipality is completely absurd. A few days ago, an asylum seeker, pregnant by her fifth child, came to our OCMW. She said she was sent by Fedasil. The morning of the same day she was still in Spa, in the afternoon she appeared in Antwerp. Fedasil had told her that it wanted to make more room in the asylum centres, so that the coronavirus could not spread and that she could feel free to go to friends, family or acquaintances in another municipality. She has crossed the country, has arrived with us and currently lives in an apartment with two bedrooms, for eight people. I find it difficult to imagine that you would approve such a thing, that you are aware that Fedasil would give such directives. That is why my question is very clear and explicit: are you aware of this? Have any medical incidents been reported? How many cases are we talking about? If we in the municipality are already experiencing such an event, I cannot get the impression that this is not an isolated case. A lady, pregnant by her fifth child, is in the morning in Spa and comes to the OCMW of Antwerp in the afternoon. She is now staying in an apartment with two bedrooms for eight people. I think that's absurd. I hope you can bring clarity and clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u5	Madam Minister, last week you replied to my question about the release of illegal immigrants that you released almost 300 out of a total of 500 from the closed centres to make way. You added in a hurry that it was not about criminals or people who had committed crimes against public order. In the meantime, we've heard that a lot of criminals have been released directly from prisons. Aren't there any criminal illegals in there, Madam Secretary? If they are released by this route, directly, it is an attack on our society and our security as if they were released from a closed centre. That's the same thing for me. I hope that you will be able to clarify this with the same certainty as last week, Madam Minister. A further question arises as a result of a very disconcerting case. While you say that you are releasing illegal immigrants to make way for compliance with the hygiene rules, the Chamber of Incriminate decided in Brussels that a Turkish man who was locked up in the closed centre for illegal immigrants in Bruges should be released, because his security in corona times in an overcrowded dormitory with asylum seekers, where the rules of social discrimination could not be followed, would not be guaranteed. Madam Secretary, is that the only person you had to release as a result of the court ruling? What happened to the person in question? I assume he's at least been given an order to leave the territory. Was there any way to repatriate him? Why wasn't that chosen? If safety cannot be guaranteed here and if there is no right of residence, then security can be guaranteed by sending the person concerned back. You also said in the previous sitting that the repatriations will continue. We support that, Madam Secretary. We believe that this is a much better way to free up space in the centres than to allow illegal immigrants to go freely. If you have already released more than 60% of the population in the closed centres, how can there still be such statements today? Have you taken any measures in the meantime? Were any illegals released or did it stop at 297?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u6	Mr President, Madam Minister, for the past two weeks the press has reported intolerable facts in closed centres but, in particular, in Merksplas. We speak of damaged food, difficult respect for social distancing, sanitary facilities in a lamentable state, isolation cells used when an inmate has symptoms of coronavirus, etc. In response to this information, Myria, the Federal Migration Centre, visited the Merksplas centre and, according to RTBF, Myria confirmed some of these problems. Some problems are old, but others seem to be related to the lack of understanding of management's decisions following the coronavirus crisis. Detainees question the absence of masks or screening in the centre. Finally, we are told that the relations between management and detainees are tense, since the decisions to release them are considered arbitrary by several of them. Minister, could you please let us know if there are plans for masks to be distributed in closed centres? If so, under what conditions and by whom will they be worn? Are staff or resident screening tests planned? Finally, in the face of the feeling of incomprehension and arbitrariness and in the light of the situation, could we not consider releasing anyone in a closed centre who has not committed any other offence than not being in order to stay? My second question concerns a young migrant who fled last week and was arrested by police officers who allegedly assaulted him violently. An investigation is under way into this matter, but I would like to remind you of the difficulty faced by people living illegally in our territory. Indeed, if security is a fundamental right, today in Belgium, any person in illegal residence who lodges a complaint with a police station for economic exploitation, non-compliance with social law, for theft or rape, will be arrested for illegal stay, with the risk of being transferred to a closed centre with a view to his expulsion following contact with the Office for Foreigners. For my group, this provision of the Police Function Act has the effect of discouraging victims of violence or offences from filing complaints against their perpetrators, because of their migration status only. These victims, in order to remain in Belgium, are thus obliged to silence any inhuman or degrading treatment. Therefore, Madam Minister, is there a derogation from the arrest of an illegal resident in the Police Function Act where the violation of his or her physical and/or moral integrity requires his or her protection? Could not the European Sanctions Directive not be fully transposed in the near future by granting temporary residence permits to victims of serious breaches of labour law?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u7	Mr President, Minister, I have already asked you about the situation in the closed centres in recent weeks. However, I have to ask a question again today because the testimonies about the precarious situation continue to flow. Let me give you some examples. The hygiene measures are still inadequate. There are no mouth masks or gloves for the staff. There is not always hot water in Merksplas. Social distancing is not always respected either by staff or prisoners. There are also testimonies of people who are put in isolation when they are ill, who are not equipped for medical care. An increase in the use of the solitary cell as a punishment measure is also reported. There are also reports of unrest, hunger strike, suicide attempts, serving spoiled food and so on. You know about all these complaints and problems. Have you examined this in the last few days and weeks? Is that gonna be handled? Is that gonna be fixed? A human approach remains extremely important, even in these times of crisis. Then I have a question about visiting rights for NGOs and Members of Parliament. That's possible again in prisons. We discussed this last time. Why isn't that possible for the closed centers, including the residents' wings? Subject to a number of measures concerning social discrimination and a number of precautionary measures, this must be possible. This democratic control, including in those closed centres, is a very important principle, especially now that we know what is happening in a number of centres. Can you guarantee that there is a real prospect of a short-term repatriation for every prisoner in the closed centres? Can you guarantee that if that is not the case, the prisoner will be released? In the event of a release, surely it is necessary to examine whether that person has an alternative, a safe place to stay? Mr President, Minister, my second question concerns asylum applications and the new digital registration system. You stated in a previous reply that people with a vulnerable profile will be invited to an appointment five days after registration of the asylum application. Is that still the average waiting time? What is the average waiting time for non-vulnerable persons? The problem with the new system is, of course, that there is a gap between digital registration and the first appointment when it comes to reception. In fact, therefore, there is no provision for shelter at the moment, whereas our group believes that it is necessary to provide for some kind of emergency care. Besides, apart from the statute, it is also generally necessary in this health crisis for people who end up on the streets. My final question concerns the salary of working asylum seekers. There is a scheme whereby asylum seekers who work must give part of their pay to Fedasil to fund their reception. Normally, asylum seekers have to wait four months before they can get to work. But in the current context, it has been relaxed. Does the temporary rule whereby the employer must provide for reception only apply to asylum seekers who are in the asylum procedure for less than four months, or does this apply to all asylum seekers who work during the corona measures? Does the scheme which provides that a piece of the wage is to be paid still apply during the corona measures, or was that rule suspended?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u8	Madam Minister, at the last committee meeting, you said that in the closed centres the recommendations of the Risk Assessment Group are being followed and hygiene measures are being respected. However, images have been published in the media that show something else. These images even reveal problems not only with corona, but with well-being in general. In Merksplas people have to shower with cold water and guards are far too close to the residents. People are isolated in the event of illness and put in an isolation cell. They're handing out moldy bread. The spokesman for the Foreign Affairs Department, Geert De Vulder, stated that the images were pre-corona-crisis, but a journalist from Apache, who is investigating the issue, said that the images date from April 4th and that Mr De Vulder himself admitted that to him. On 10 April Myria visited the centre in Merksplas. Myria confirmed that in the center fear reigns over the corona crisis and well-being in general. The personnel do not have enough protective equipment to prevent contamination and this creates great concerns for staff and residents. Are all these problems known to your administration? If not, why not? Is the Department of Foreign Affairs withholding information? Do you agree that the situation in the closed centres is difficult and that the corona crisis is not being dealt with properly? Do you agree that, if the security measures are impossible to implement, we should give the residents a different accommodation, in the interests of their health and that of the staff? My second question concerns the people released from the closed centres. Until today, there is no clarity as to what has happened to every released person. According to the management of the centre at Merksplas the residents are dropped off at a station or a bus stop. Then they need to find a place to stay. If they don't have a place, they'll just have to knock on their door at a homeless shelter, for example. That's what the board told me. The lockdown is now being reduced, but it looks like we just don't know from a group of people where they are or if they're safe. This puts public health and their own health at risk. I therefore have three further questions for you, Madam Secretary. How many people have been released at the moment and how many remain in the closed centres? Is your administration keeping records of where the released persons end up in order to prevent people from ending up on the streets? As far as you know, where are most of the released people: in someone else's home, in the homeless shelter or elsewhere?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u9	Mr. Chair, Minister, my questions are divided into two parts. The first relates to unaccompanied minors and recommendations made by the Exile Minors Platform. This platform asks to guarantee the first issuance of residence documents during this period of health crisis, to extend the residence documents automatically and temporarily beyond the age of the majority of MENA, not to issue any order to leave the territory to the MENA who has reached the age of majority without legal stay, not to sign any order to return to the guardian. Minister, how do you intend to respond to these requests? Have any MENA been expelled since March 18th? Would it be possible for applications for family reunification to be submitted directly by the MENA or its guardian through a power of attorney? What is planned for the MENA in transit? We know that a decent and age-appropriate standard of living must be guaranteed. At least they should have access to sanitation, medical care and psychological assistance. Is additional funding for emergency reception provided for this purpose? Is there cooperation with field organizations? What is the status of the relocation of MENA from Greece? It is also known that there are procedural difficulties for MENA. How do you plan to respond to the demands of the Exile Minor Platform? Have the MENA not been able to benefit from a reception place since March 18th? If so, why? Have MENAs been excluded from their reception space since the above-mentioned date? Is it possible to reintegrate those who have left the reception structure into the network? The second part of my questions relates to regularization in general. The Ciré, the OMC and the Minors in Exile platform asked you on this point and unfortunately did not get an answer to the question whether it was possible to envisage a temporary regularisation of the persons who submit their application on the basis of Article 9a. Indeed, we know the difficulties that can be encountered. We also know that other States have done so. How do you respond to field associations that have not received a response? How do you intend to respond to this request?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u10	The various measures taken by the government in the fight against the corona virus also affect our asylum system. People who wish to apply for asylum must now make an appointment electronically, after which they will be invited to submit their application effectively. After that, they'll be assigned a shelter. I have a few questions about this. How many people have applied for asylum since 12 March? Is there a drop? Is there currently a waiting list of people who have expressed their wish to apply for asylum but who have not yet received an appointment? How many people are we talking about here? Will all persons who have applied for asylum be assigned a place of refuge? Where are these people being taken care of? Is this mainly about individual or collective care? How many people are in emergency care? Everyone who is on the territory, regardless of their status, should have access to basic rights and facilities such as housing, health care and stability. The current crisis confronts many people with circumstances of force majeure in which they are fully dependent on outside aid. It is precisely this vulnerable target group that needs protection against the virus if we are to avoid a flare-up. To what extent can all the health measures, such as social discrimination, be met in all asylum and reception centres? In what way will this be resolved if centres are unable to comply with it? Madam Minister, after the health crisis, do you intend to invest more in, above all, small-scale local care to ensure better hygiene? Can anyone who now applies for asylum be guaranteed immediate reception? People on the run and people without a right of residence are also a vulnerable group. During the current health crisis, we must not forget that they are also important and we must also be able to provide them with proper medical care. This is important for their own health but also for the health of people in their environment. Anyone who is ill must have immediate access to the necessary medical care. Finally, I would like to ask a few questions about this. Have guidelines been drawn up for people on the run and for people without a right of residence who test positive for COVID-19? Can you give an overview of the guidelines? Where can people from that target group, who are discharged from the hospital after treatment, be found? What measures will be taken if they return to the centre where they were staying? Madam Minister, have you taken any steps to lower the threshold for urgent medical assistance for that target group? I am thinking, for example, of extending the medical card.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u11	Mr President, Madam Minister, I will not go into the details because many things have been said. I will supplement Mrs Matz's question on unaccompanied foreign minors. I would like to know whether it is possible to introduce an exceptional measure for MENA in connection with the registration of their application. Currently, it is done electronically, as a security measure, and we understand it, although there are adjustments to be made. I have asked you, in this MENA chapter, about the possibility that MENA may come to the Aliens Office without going through electronic means. Indeed, some have real difficulties in using this path. I'd like to get back to the Fedasil Centers soon. As we know, current overpopulation is also a legacy of past policies. On the other hand, the figures I have received indicate a 97% occupancy rate for Fedasil centres, which is problematic given the physical distancing requested. As for food, a lot of complaints have been received in the Fedasil centres. It is sometimes referred to as damage. Food rations are very small, many people complain about them. It also weakens organisms, while it is known that a weakened organism, at this time of VOCID-19, can cause complications. What is the food budget? Has it increased? Is it a closed envelope or a budget per person? Last week, I asked you about the state of the closed centres. Here, my colleagues rightly point to the state of the Merksplas centre, which was shown in a RTBF report. We're talking about Merksplas because we only have images of this center, and a control was made thanks to the presence of Myria. But we have no knowledge of the state of the other centres. My question is the same as I asked you a week ago and is the following. Neither parliamentarians nor NGOs can go to the centres. As soon as Myria has been able to go to Merksplas, will you again allow Members to do their job and to go with all the necessary precautions to the closed centres? Will you allow it to NGOs, again with all the necessary precautions? I will stop there and refer to my written questions for further details.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u12	Madam Secretary, I too have a few more questions. I agree with the many interesting remarks made by my fellow Members, but I would like to touch on Fedasil's request for an order for design furniture intended for the asylum seekers' centre in Kapellen. These furniture are BDLove type of designer Ross Lovegrove. These design furniture are very expensive in itself, but Fedasil puts a little bit on top of it by ordering those furniture in a special color blue with a fabric that, I quote, 'a satin-like shine', which according to the catalogue has to be paid extra. Madam Secretary, I hope you will be able to remove this ambiguity. The description in the tender is very specific. In fact, it seems that the preferred supplier has included this offer. Is that how it happened? Do you think that's a proper procedure? Do you think an asylum seekers' center needs expensive design furniture? Perhaps you will be angry again later because I have spread this news, but if you were to answer these questions very quickly and clarify them, I would not have to post anything on that in the social media.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u13	However, I would like to point out that this last question is not much COOVID-19-related. I do not know whether the Minister has prepared an answer. I'll give the Minister plenty of time to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u14	Mr President, no problem. It is kind of you to be with me, but I know that Mr Van Langenhove likes to take care of the icing on the cake in committee by asking a question that has nothing to do with COVID-19. I'll make him wait a little longer for his answer, but I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u15	Madam Secretary, Mrs Dedonder is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u16	Mr President, I should like to point out that my colleague Malik Ben Achour has yet to ask his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u17	I give him the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u18	Mr President, Madam Minister, the crisis we are going through has had many consequences for the international movement of individuals. I have had the opportunity, on several occasions, to question the Minister for Foreign Affairs about the problems faced by our compatriots, in Morocco and Burundi in particular, which are in the process of being solved. It would appear that there have also been problems with access to the territory. For example, it comes to my mind that non-Belgian spouses of Belgians residing abroad, wishing to return to Belgium with their husband or wife and their Belgian children, would have had difficulties in doing so. In this case, it was at the departure of the Democratic Republic of the Congo that these people were initially refused entry into European territory because they were not Belgian. Usually, however, they were granted type C Schengen visas for multiple entries. This type of document is issued directly by diplomatic and consular posts. If the entry requirements are met, as appears to be the case here, the Aliens Office must not be consulted, except where the applicant is in a so-called special situation. This is at least what can be read on the Inland FPS website. Minister, have you been informed of these cases? How can these refusals be explained? Were these individuals considered to be in a particular situation due to the VOCID-19 pandemic? Was the authorization of the Aliens Office therefore requested? If so, why did you first reject the applications?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u19	Mr De Vriendt asked for the floor, I assume, for the order of business?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u20	Mr President, I think you are allowing a great deal. That's another time. This is an actua debate on COVID-19. You ask which group still wants to intervene. Mr Van Langenhove does so with a question that has nothing to do with COOVID-19. I notice that his question is on the agenda, but unfortunately for him all the way back. We are not going to abuse this system to insert any question here and then threaten to post messages on social media if you do not get the answer directly. That is accepted here. This is not the way we can work properly. I'd like to ask you not to answer that question. If that question were answered, everyone would be encouraged to do the same as Mr Van Langenhove next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u21	Mr De Vriendt, I agree with you. This is an actua debate on the coronavirus. I also reported that to the Minister immediately. It is not obliged to answer this question in the topical and urgent debate. I think this is done and clear. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm taking a second attempt at giving answers. My first answer concerns the requests that can be made again in the registration centre. In a previous committee meeting I explained that this works via a web form on the website of the Foreign Affairs Office, after which an appointment is made. On the ground, as we suspected, the applicants who wish to make an appointment are, in certain cases, assisted by lawyers, NGOs or others, which is of course a good way of working to avoid queues at the registration centre and to respect the distance rules currently in force. When people come by an appointment, a nurse makes a screening. In the event of a possible infection, a medical team will be assisted, as these people are vulnerable and should be placed in an isolation room to determine whether or not they have the disease COVID-19, to which the doctor should be able to do his job. Mr De Vriendt asked whether the five-day deadline would still be met. Yes, for the first applications, for the vulnerable. I must add that there are currently few families with children. It's all about single men now. The public that signs up has therefore changed somewhat. In the period from 3 to 27 April, 962 requests for an appointment were received. There are also six hundred applications to be dealt with. Those applicants will also be invited in the coming weeks. Several applicants didn't show up for the appointment. That is annoying, of course, because the security measures currently in force do not allow two people to be booked for one appointment. Sometimes those applicants re-apply for an appointment. We do not yet really have a view on how many of these people will eventually submit a request. The first registrations took place on 7 April. A total of 40 vulnerable people were registered in the first 4 working days. Priority to vulnerable people means that more vulnerable people have been registered during the first days. Until 27 April, 154 applications for asylum were registered. DVZ continues to aim to invite vulnerable people to an appointment as soon as possible. It is a new process that is taking place there, with strict compliance with the measures against corona such as social distancing. The aim is to gradually increase the number of registrations according to the number of applications, but always within the limits of what is considered safe by Health. Since this week, the Foreign Office has invited about 30 people a day. If we look at countries around us like the Netherlands and France, that is a similar number. Those are larger countries, but they are also limited in the registration of people. All these measures and border conditions have dramatically reduced the number of asylum applications in all European Member States. As regards reception during the period between the online registration and the appointment at the registration centre, it is pointed out that part of the accommodation is outside the reception network or is already in the care facility, because it was already taken care of as a vulnerable person. Consultations were also held with the competent authorities to take the necessary measures for migrants who could not apply for asylum following the temporary closure of the notification centre. There was a positive response to this. I'm going into the shelter at Fedasil now. Firstly, there is an increase in the number of places. In order to ensure a distribution in the centres, the occupancy rate must be reduced. This is why Fedasil no longer designates places in reception centres, including Tournai and Mouscron, for new asylum seekers. They can only receive a place in the new centres, such as Sijsele and Marcinelle. This always takes place in close consultation with local authorities. Fedasil is continuing its efforts to increase its reception spaces, so that each new applicant receives one. I also have to say that the procedures are all much slower and that means that fewer people leave the shelters anyway. Perhaps that will be possible again in the coming weeks if the courts and administrations can do their job better. Asylum-seekers entitled to receive asylum are entitled to it. As always, the place in a centre is designated after a first reception phase at the arrival centre. Vulnerable persons with a risk profile or a high level of protection can obviously be given an individual place. At present, there is also little incentive for local authorities to drive up individual reception places. This certainly has to do with the corona crisis, which also means that local authorities have their hands full with other measures. So they are now making little room in individual care, but perhaps this will start in the coming weeks and months. However, I hope that the local authorities will be as enthusiastic about the creation of local reception initiatives as they were in 2015 and 2016, but the corona virus has been cycling in a very unfortunate way. The publication of the occupancy figures in the reception network is not intended to find local solutions, but to provide an overview of the infections in the reception network. We have been asked whether the budget for meals has fallen, but that is not the case. On the contrary, there have been a lot of people in our shelters and that budget is therefore higher than what was foreseen. Measures in the open centres were discussed. You know that with Fedasil, we have taken several of them by means of instructions developed jointly to prevent the spread of the virus in the centres. We followed the recommendations of the Risk Assessment Group for residential communities. This applies to asylum centres, but also to prisons, where Mr Noone has taken the same measures and other forms of collective care. Fedasil has also taken a measure to increase the outflow from the reception centres and to reduce the occupancy, which was recommended by the Risk Assessment Group. As you know, accommodation in a reception centre is not compulsory during the asylum procedure and it is possible to choose to move elsewhere. Fedasil supports the residents who decide to live with family or friends during this crisis with meal vouchers. They must, of course, have a roof over their head and tell us where they are going to live. They must be able to be called upon to continue their proceedings. It is their individual choice whether or not to go into this, but we see that a number of people are choosing to do so. Those will then be the people who have family or friends here to whom they can turn. However, they must make that choice themselves, because because of the risk of contamination it is not possible to do so for a few days. We can't mix people from different silos. If they choose to leave, then they must stay outside. Of course, they also get a chance to stay normal. In this way we want to avoid mixing different silos or bubbles and keep the risk of contamination as low as possible. Certain persons already stayed with family and friends at the time of the lockdown. They were asked to stay there if possible and thus avoid additional movements. This was also recommended to vulnerable beneficiaries, for whom no alternative solution could be found within the reception network. In the meantime, around 600 people have opted for this option. They must, however, stay at one fixed address, also in order to avoid unnecessary movements. They were also provided with all the information on the preventive measures to be taken, regardless of where they reside, and on what to do if they become ill. I have no knowledge of any medical incidents in that group. They must also comply with the general rules, such as keeping distance and following the hygiene rules, just like the rest of the population. Since they remain in a single bubble or silo during the current crisis, they are also not at greater risk of spreading the virus than other inhabitants. With regard to infections in the centres, residents and staff are informed about the rules of hygiene and social distancing. The necessary instructions are given to the entire network and are regularly adapted to the situation. The rules are repeated daily by flyers, posters and oral reminders. Additional sinks and soaps are installed at strategic locations. Disinfectant gels have also been provided. The premises, toilets and equipment are cleaned frequently. As far as testing is concerned, no other protection applies to Fedasil centres except those which are valid for the rest of the population. Here, too, the organization closely follows the guidelines of the Risk Assessment Group (RAG) for prescribed testing in residential communities. This means that people with symptoms are tested. In centres where at-risk groups are hosted, more tests have been conducted. The same regime is applied as in nursing homes. Since Friday, people who arrive in the network are also systematically tested – whether they feel good or not – due to their entry into the silo. These tests continue to be conducted in accordance with the RAG recommendations, which were modified last week. Individuals with confirmed or potential infection are placed in isolation directly. Some centres can open medical wings in their own right. Where it is impossible, people infected or suspected of being infected must stay in their room. Access to isolation areas and rooms is strictly limited to essential personnel, who receive the necessary protective equipment and instructions to use it properly. Sick residents should have access to sanitary facilities separate from those for non-sick residents. If not, they must be disinfected by themselves after each use. Meals are left at the door of the rooms to avoid unnecessary coming and going. Patients don't go to medical, but they go to the room with them. Nurses wearing protective equipment check every day the state of health of the people who have to stay in their rooms. Staff are kept informed as soon as an infection is detected in a resident. I confirm that the opinion of occupational medicine is required for all measures and that we take into account its possible remarks. The trade unions were consulted and were able to make their remarks during the Extraordinary Consultation Committee. Fedasil strictly follows Sciensano's recommendations. The increase in the number of tests is part of the reduction of measures. Masks are being distributed to closed centres, residents and staff. I remember that these masks are not often used, so far. But perhaps it is due to the fact that the distribution is not complete. In collaboration with the relevant regional bodies, the recommendations on follow-up of contacts are respected. The other rules for health are of course still to be applied: restrictions on contacts, respect for social distancing and basic hygiene measures. I've heard the word "fear" fall here. Mrs Daems, you said there was fear among the residents. Mrs Daems, there is fear among all our people. No one is worried about the fact that one can or cannot be infected with the invisible corona virus that is a threat to everyone. There is also fear among the people in hospitals, and there is fear that keeps people away from hospitals, although they would be better examined there. There is indeed fear, even among the people in our centers. Mrs Daems, you are asking if there can be no other accommodation. You could organise a therapeutic session with this committee to see how and where. Give me the addresses and I'll take those people to that other destination if they find it. That seems to me to be an interesting exercise for you, if you find the time. As far as sanctions are concerned, every incident in a center is one too many. That creates unrest, including among the people who work there. As far as the frequency is concerned, in a network of more than 25,000 people received, serious incidents remain an exception, even though the situation in the centres has certainly not been made easier by less freedom. Fedasil monitors that situation closely and ensures that it stays that way. All reception partners should apply the same sanctions, including transfers and exclusions. Of course, the coronavirus has an impact on the sanctioning regime in the centers. The sanction of disciplinary transfer is not applied now to avoid relocations between centres. Movements of infected persons between centres would not be good. At present, therefore, priority is given to more internal sanctions, such as the obligation to carry out Community tasks or to withhold the allowance. Of course, the criminal laws continue to apply both inside and outside the centre during this corona epidemic. As before, in the case of crimes in the centre, such as violence or threat, the police are always informed and, if necessary, the persons concerned are arrested by the police for questioning, with a view to a possible arrest and prosecution by the police. Because of a virus, our entire legal system does not go on the shovel; that cannot be the intention. It is, however, not easy to carry out major interventions at the moment. However, depending on the situation, the centre can still proceed to a temporary exclusion from the shelter of the offender, so that the order and tranquility of the other residents and staff in the centre are preserved. In the event of a serious disturbance to public policy, the offender may also be locked up in a closed centre. The supply of Wi-Fi in the reception centres remains a challenge. We need sufficient bandwidth and also sufficient computer equipment for the residents. In the collective centers Fedasil tries to make wifi available to the residents. Simple extensions and improvements have been made, including the addition of antennas and other minimum infrastructure, which has already greatly improved in a number of centres. In the context of the current crisis, both Telenet and Proximus were recruited to expand their public Wi-Fi infrastructure, in particular for centres far away from the antennae. A rapid expansion of the public Wi-Fi network of Telenet and Proximus does not seem to be possible, but Fedasil has asked to support the use of 4G access points for reception centres. Fedasil also makes efforts to make computer material available to school children. For example, a donation of 100 computers was received via Digital for Youth, all of which went to the children in order to take lessons. This is important, so that the children in the centres are no longer lagging behind because they do not have such obvious access to their parents' computer. It was also offered within the centres to make international telephone calls. This capacity is present and unchanged. Vulnerable unaccompanied minors reported to the Aliens Office or the Tutelle Service are in fact always accommodated by Fedasil in the observation and guidance centres. Existing agreements and procedures continue to be applied as they stand. Despite this health crisis, for the moment the capacity is sufficient to accommodate these minors during the first phase in the observation and guidance centres. In the second phase, capacity in ordinary centres will and can be gradually increased if needed. Additional shelters for unaccompanied minors were planned before the start of the corona crisis. For the most vulnerable, places are set up within the Communities, which are responsible for special care for young people. I'm not competent for these places, but I've been a asking party since 2011 that was already in favour of extending the places for vulnerable young people, whether or not it concerns children from asylum and migration reception. Indeed, the number of applications for registration has decreased in recent weeks. Sixteen applications were received, 13 of which have since been registered. There too, vulnerable people and minors are always given priority. They will be summoned as soon as possible. This also applies to other asylum seekers who receive assistance from certain authorities in completing their web form. When a young person is reported, the Tutelle Service inquires about the medical situation. If there is no indication of infection, it is returned to an observation and orientation centre in Fedasil. If there are signs of a possible infection, an alternative reception is organized by the Tutelle Service. As in other reception centres, the rules of distancing are respected to the maximum. Isolation rooms and health facilities were provided for young people who would become ill during their stay. Also there: when a child becomes ill, it is isolated and cared for and no longer comes into contact with others. The bone scans are not currently being performed because, as you know, there is still an emergency regime in force in hospitals until Monday 4 May 2020. They're not a medical priority. The age clause isn't really my jurisdiction. I can't work out other forms of age test because I know she doesn't exist. A bone scan still produces the least uncertain result. For the proper functioning of Fedasil and DVZ, it is important that the Voogdij department continues to carry out as many correct age provisions as possible in a scientifically responsible manner. But I know this isn't a simple matter right now. Direct access to the registration centre for all minors without registration is not possible for the time being, because we will no longer be able to guarantee the social discrimination guidelines. This is essential for the staff working in the notification centres in order to continue to do the work. You know that this has not been so easy. People were afraid to get back to work. The start-up of a reliable age assessment is essential to avoid any abuse of this priority procedure, thus avoiding the risk of rows and discussions at the entrance to the registration centre. So far we have no knowledge of such situations. This seems to be very calm. In the meantime, Fedasil remains in contact with the Voogdij and all the actors in the field to prevent the vulnerable young people from finding their way to the asylum procedure. The current situation should also be taken into account for minors if sanctions are to be applied. Penalties shall be carried out as far as possible within the centre. If a person is excluded, the person concerned may not be able to re-influse the debt after that penalty. That is why such a sanction is avoided. The specific circumstances are always taken into account, including the fact that it is a vulnerable person, a minor. The current crisis is making sure that the situation there is not certain. As far as illegal residents are concerned, I stress once again that I am competent for the reception of asylum seekers. This mission is carried out by Fedasil. Persons without right of residence are not entitled to reception by Fedasil. They can, if necessary, benefit from housing for homeless people organized by local authorities and partly supported by the federal government. In 2011, I also had this competence. It has now been taken over by Mrs Muylle. For urgent medical assistance, they can also appeal to CPAS that fall under Mr.Ducarme's jurisdiction, if I am not mistaken, given that this has changed several times. There was a question from Mr Vandenput about seasonal work, but he did not ask them. I have taken measures with Mrs Muylle. Through a royal decision we have given the opportunity to participate in agriculture and horticulture. Among other things, in the Poelkapelle reception centre there are people who regularly fill the vacancies and have been staying with the employer since the start of the crisis in order to limit the entry and exit. It has also been decided to extend the working group by temporarily deleting the four-month waiting period. As a condition, they must be taken care of by the employer. Between Fedasil and the VDAB, a procedure was established to inform residents of the reception structures and lead them to the VDAB. The residents are informed by posters and the staff of the centres. The interested parties are connected by the staff to the VDAB, who puts him or her in contact with the employer. In certain cases, employers have provided accommodation. This used to be used for migrant workers, but they're not getting here right now. The conditions for taking care of the employer do not apply to residents who are already entitled to work. For both Fedasil and employers, it is beneficial that they should be able to stay with their employers in order to reduce movements and avoid an unnecessary increase in the risk of contamination. If an asylum seeker becomes infected with an employer, he can be re-captured and isolated and cared for, as happens with those who were already in the centre. Employers shall be informed of the measures to be taken regarding distance and hygiene. Asylum seekers who work while staying in a shelter should indeed contribute to their care. The amounts for this are set out in the Royal Decree of 12 January 2011. If the applicants reside with their employer, that contribution shall not apply. We talked about a report from RTBF on the closed centres. Unfortunately, I don't have time to watch television. I didn't see that reportage, so I can't know if it's old or new footage. I can testify to the situation in the closed centers. I'm gonna have to nuance the questions I've heard here a little bit. It is always a question of whether the coverage was respectful of the staff's commitment and whether it is consistent with the truth. It's hard to know if old footage was used, from when there was a full line-up. We need to know that the occupation is now less than half. If the occupation in a closed centre is less than half, that means a lot for the distance between the people. The question was also whether everyone there has the opportunity to sleep on a mattress. I checked, and that is indeed the case. Everyone has at least one mattress. No one should be lying there on the ground. I think we can say in that regard that the situation has been caricatured. I can understand that residents of closed centres do not want to be there, but it is up to me to enforce the law. I have also visited prisons, because I provide mental guidance in prisons, through pilot projects. I have to say, I never found anyone who likes to sit there. Also in a closed center one will find no one who likes to sit there. No, I just can't, because everyone prefers to be free. That is human and we must understand that. I understand people who say they're unhappy. That's normal. I wouldn't be happy to be locked up in a closed centre or a prison. Who would be? It's human. It must be borne in mind that some have an interest in presenting saturation in the most negative way possible. To put this into perspective, we must have objective information and not just listen to a single version of the facts. If this approach is not followed, there is no evidence of the necessary respect due to the staff, who make every effort on a daily basis to continue to do their best in difficult circumstances. Since the beginning of the Coronavirus crisis, the Aliens Office and the directorates of the closed centres have assumed their responsibilities and implemented the recommendations of the scientists. When other problems arise, they are also quickly resolved. Yes, there are problems in prisons and in closed centres. But there are also problems in some families that are also related to confinement. We need to find solutions to problems. For example, in the case of sandwiches, the catering company intervened immediately. This brings me to the main steps that have been taken. All the closed centres follow, as I said, the guidelines issued by the Risk Assessment Group and have adapted their infrastructure and operations. The main aim of the measures is to maximize the distribution of residents and to impose strict hygiene measures. Both the latter and the staff are aware of the observance of all the rules. The occupancy rate per centre has been drastically reduced to ensure the distribution of residents and social distancing in rooms, dormitories, dining rooms and other common areas. In addition, the number of people who can participate in certain activities at the same time has been limited and traffic in the centres has been adapted. All measures are aimed at avoiding contacts between the different groups of residents. Staff and other persons entering the centre must wear a mouth mask when the necessary distance cannot be respected. Oral masks were also distributed to residents. On 27 April, there were still 162 people in the centres: 15 in Bruges where infrastructure is not optimal, 62 in Merksplas, 36 in Vottem, 18 in Steenokkerzeel, 25 in Caricole, and 6 in Holsbeek. When one knows the centres, one knows that with such occupation no problem of social distancing arises in the dormitories, for example. With this occupation, there is no problem with social distancing in the dormitories. Sometimes people even lie alone in a small dormitory. We have carried out tests in the closed centres and yet no infection with COOVID-19 has been detected so far. In case of a suspicion of infection, isolation is immediately provided. It is always the center doctor who decides when a person goes in or out of medical isolation. The medical service monitors sick residents on a daily basis. So far, we have not had any patients with coronavirus, but there may still be another disease spreading in one centre. The medical service monitors sick persons and, in case of serious illness, they are transferred to the hospital. The removal of infected persons will not be carried out as long as they remain contagious. These are the arrangements made in the event of a COOVID-19 contamination being established there. As far as screening is concerned, the scientific guidelines are also followed. New residents and staff who are likely to be ill may also be screened to minimize the risk of spread of the virus. Persons who have come into contact with a potentially contaminated resident or staff member are identified and monitored. They may also be detected. If there is any doubt, there will be a test... that's simple... because otherwise one doesn't know what one's doing. We need to know whether or not to isolate someone. Last time there was also a lot to do about external access and control by MEPs, but they are possible. The measures taken by the centres to protect public health do indeed have an impact on the visitor arrangements. It is possible for Members of Parliament to access the centre, but not to the living wings at a time when residents are staying, because distance cannot be guaranteed and because the inhabitants are afraid that the infection will be brought from outside to the centre, so that they will not be able to escape it. Mrs. Daems, I don't know what's so funny, but I'd love to hear it. MEPs also have the possibility of telephone contact with residents. The Aliens Office is making every effort to enable parliamentarians to exercise their right of control. It is not always possible to proceed in the same way as in prisons, since the infrastructure of closed centres is different. Nevertheless, I asked the Aliens Office if it was possible to follow more the procedures in the prisons so as to have more contact with the residents of the closed centres. So far, I haven't had an answer yet. As far as exemptions are concerned, I note that closed centres are only used for detention for disposal purposes. There must always be the most efficient use of the sites. The means of confinement should be used as little as possible. For example, in 2018, there were 61 % removals on the total number of detentions. Also in normal times there are exemptions for legal reasons, for medical reasons but also by order of the judge. I must also point out that after the report, a number of judges, because they had seen the reportage, decided to release more people. If that was the intention of the reportage, she certainly succeeded. There are also exemptions because the deadlines have expired. After all, there can be no extension beyond the time limits allowed by law. In 2019, as in 2018, there were around 250 exemptions per month. There were 250 per month in 2018 and in 2019. I mentioned the reasons for these exemptions. As I have already indicated, it is true that more exemptions have taken place during the first weeks of the corona crisis. That was essential for two reasons. It was a one-time operation, if that's what it's called. A forced return was, firstly, no longer possible because of a lack of flights. A detention was therefore no longer legally possible either. A second reason was the protection of the residents and the staff, so that fewer people would be in the center to keep the social distance. However, since the most recent report here in the committee, the number of exemptions has been considerably lower than the average of the last two years. This is because there are fewer people, but also because of the one-off fact that people who had no chance of removal had already left the centre. I have instructed my administration to retain persons who have committed acts of public order and certainly not to release them on their own initiative, but only if they are forced to do so by the courts. People who are exempted are asked whether they have reception facilities. This appears to be the case in the vast majority of cases. Some people say they can go somewhere, but do not want to give the further information. Then I'll come to the legal detentions. As far as the judgments of the courts are concerned, the vast majority of the cases decide on a further detention, both by the Board Chamber and by the Board of Appeal. This shows that the detentions are to a large extent justified. Of course, due care is taken in the return process. In each individual case, it shall be verified whether disposal is possible. There's a judicial check on that. The legal deadlines of detention are always respected and followed. For those who are still in the centres, there is still the possibility that they may be removed within a reasonable period of time. The European Commission has also confirmed this principle. It depends, of course, on how long this period will last. If it is extended for another year, it will no longer be possible because deadlines have expired. The residents also have lawyers, so access to legal assistance remains guaranteed as usual. Secondly, it should be borne in mind that, due to the greatly reduced air traffic and the closure of borders, remoteness is more difficult to organize, but is still possible for some destinations. Since 18 March, 48 deportations have taken place – notably to the United States, Albania, Brazil, Croatia, Romania, Bulgaria, the United Kingdom, and France. They were organized towards the country of origin or a destination provided for by the Dublin Regulation or bilateral and refoulement agreements. To avoid confusion, Mr. Rigot, please note that the number you mention in your question relates to March 13 – hence the difference. Between that date and 20 April, the Aliens Office removed 116 persons. When you make comparisons, it's useful to know that... If we are talking about other periods, then of course we are also getting different figures. People from prison are now as much as possible removed directly from prison to their country of origin. If so, they will be transferred to a closed centre just like they used to be. This situation also has an impact on the residence of persons who are on the territory or wish to go to Belgium. I made an agreement with the administration that during this crisis, given the operational constraints, they should be able to work as correctly as possible. It is important to continue to pay due attention to this, because it is also about people in these difficult circumstances. Working in these circumstances, of course, is no one's fault. The Aliens Office may exceptionally grant access to Belgian territory on imperative humanitarian grounds. Each case is examined individually. Long-lasting family ties – for example, for spouses – are certainly part of this situation. Exceptions were also granted on direct flights between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and our country for Belgian spouses who do not have an official residence permit here. It is indeed simpler for direct flights, as airlines apply a strict policy. The renewal of a residence permit must be requested from the municipality of residence. The Department of Foreign Affairs has recommended that the municipalities prefer electronic exchanges for this purpose. It is therefore possible to request the renewal of the residence permit by e-mail. Some municipalities also work for others who cannot work by mail, on the basis of agreements, with the necessary security measures for the people concerned and their staff. The same way of working is used for the certificates of immatriculation. As the Foreign Affairs Office remains operational, the application files are further examined and decisions are taken. I have a meeting every Tuesday morning with Mr Roosemont and people from other services, such as Mr Luxen. The Foreign Affairs Office regularly presents files to the Commissioner-General and Mr Van den Bulck assures me that decisions are still being taken. It is also still possible to issue an order to leave the territory to persons whose proceedings are terminated. They may then apply to extend the time limit of the order. Currently, applications for residence are always processed on a case-by-case basis, therefore on an individual basis. There are no plans for a group-type regularisation for persons residing illegally in Belgium. As you know, I have already had a few demonstrations at my door before that. The illegal residents were supposed to have left the country often for a long time. The current health crisis is not a single reason for regularizing their stay, even temporarily. With regard to the application for Belgian nationality, it is the competence of the Minister of Justice. I really do not know anything about your specific story, Mr Metsu, otherwise I would say something about it. I don't doubt it happened, but I don't know. Mr Rigot, you have asked whether we are preparing the centres for deconfining. Yes, of course, we also believe that we need to change the measures we have taken. We are making proposals that need to be re-approved by the RMG. They are the ones who take care of the collective centres. We need to make sure that there is no acute risk to people in the centres. Finally, I would like to say a word about the design furniture, Mr Van Langenhove. After purchasing kilos of chocolate and the bikes or luxury bikes you have found again something that you can blow up a bit. It's not about designer furniture at all. And given our infrastructure, they wouldn't fit there, by the way. However, banks have been purchased to accommodate a dozen people. These banks are also widely used in schools and cultural centres, and now in a centre where 400 people live permanently. On the benches there is room for 10 people, but perhaps, given the circumstances, only 3 people can take their seats. Safe material has been chosen, with rounded corners, so people can't hurt themselves. The material must be robust and vandalism-resistant. In other words, such a bank cannot be set on fire. The banks must have a thick and hard plastic shell. The banks must be so heavy they can't be moved. For example, they can be filled with sand. They must also be hygienic. They need to be thoroughly cleaned, even more so, they need to be cleaned with a high pressure cleaner. You've found that type of bank, and you've turned it into designer banks. I don't know your views on design, but other people, other tastes. That will be true for you too, but as always, in all centres, banks have been chosen with essential safety, robustness and maintenance-friendliness features.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u23	Thank you for your answers, Madam Secretary. All the questioners will now have the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u24	Mr. Rigot, are you there?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u25	Mr. President, yes, rest assured! Minister, thank you for your answers. I remain somewhat concerned about my hunger in terms of staff protection, union consultation and the transfer procedure. [[...]] Front-line medical personnel must first filter out prior to referral to emergency services or hospitals. That is why I believe it is important that this type of mask be made available to Fedasil's staff. I heard the organization offered him a bonus so he could get the masks himself. This cannot be accepted because it is the employer who has the responsibility to provide the necessary means of protection. The principle of isolation is theoretically there, but it does not work, due to the lack of sufficient teams. To know the field well, I can certify that we need results. To come back to your point, the communes are going through difficult situations, but it is possible to envisage collective centres. What is the status of the opening of the centre of Herbeumont? [[...]] When these places are closed by the CPAS, while we need them, we still pay them because we do not officially announce an unoccupied place. I think a contract is a contract. When you engage, common or not, you stick to it. We have not forced anyone, since this is not a distribution plan, to engage in individual accompaniment. Therefore, local reception initiatives (ILA) are useful for vulnerable audiences. Then I fully understand the absence of age tests, but let us keep young people in doubt of age in the structures reserved for minors. The best interests of the child must always be safeguarded. As far as closed centres are concerned, I would say that you are going behind a lack of time to examine the information. It's not a question of whether you're watching Thuis on the weekend, but of whether you're aware of a current event that's been relayed. It is still the RTBF that broadcasts a report. It is therefore to be hoped that you will take a critical look, question your administration and ask it for a report so that we can then receive an answer. You can't condemn a show – and even less if you haven't watched it. You're right, you need objective information, but neither do I give you a blank cheque, even in special powers. It is our role to wait for answers to our questions, Minister, and we ask you to investigate and confirm whether this situation is not working. With regard to the figures I have given you, they were based on an earlier answer that you have given me. If they are incorrect, it is probably that the answer was not precise enough or that I did not correctly translate it. Nevertheless, there is the question of keeping people in closed centres who are well known that they cannot be returned to their own country as they are. They are not in a pre-trial detention situation but simply waiting for exclusion, which will not be possible anyway. I therefore ask you to reconsider this position a little bit. I have heard comments that shock me from colleagues. Parliament has a monitoring role with regard to ministers and administration, of course, but we must not lose sight of the fact that we cannot put on the table any comment or any other fact. We must maintain a critical sense and use our right and honour to convey the right messages, not false messages that undermine the administration, politics, politics of our country, ministers, but sometimes – let us not lose sight of this – the beneficiaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u26	Merci, Monsieur Rigot. You exceeded speaking time somewhat, but I put it to technical problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u27	Minister, I waited a long time and did not have an answer to my question. In the previous session, I had asked a question for the centres of Tournai and Mousrcon and had no answer. I still don't have an answer today and I wonder if you'll finally answer me. With regard to these two centres, you only told me that there would be no new places for asylum seekers. But that wasn't my question! My question was what we were going to do to relieve the congestion of the centres. What is being done to reduce the number of residents in these centres? In these two major centres, distancing rules are difficult to enforce. This is objective information, you know! In general, I plead for smaller centres. In Mouscron, there have recently been quite violent fights that required police intervention. The cause is that there are too many people gathered in one place! I had bounced over the opening of a centre, which you had told us about at a previous meeting, to consider a transfer of the largest centres. This can very well be considered. I therefore reiterate my question, hoping to have an answer today. Is there a plan to reduce congestion in existing centres? If so, with what planning and with what priorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u28	Madam Minister, today it is somewhat different than usual, as you say you cannot answer my question. However, I can reassure you by informing you that you did answer my question during your discourse. However, your answer is a little worrying. After all, I expected you to be as renovated about that particular case, which goes far beyond my congregation alone. However, you endorse this case, you have apparently approved it, and you are therefore aware of it. You're right to tell us to stay in our barn. Non-essential movements shall be prohibited. However, in order to avoid the risk of infection within the open asylum centres, you say quite literally in your speech that the outflow needs to be increased. This therefore means the aim of reducing capacity utilisation. That is why you literally say: "Their stay is not compulsory." An asylum seeker from an open centre may land here, at acquaintances it doesn't even have to be family where he or she wants. So, asylum seekers are allowed to cook together. They will also receive compensation for this, which is new information for me, because you spoke of the so-called meal cheques. About 600 asylum seekers, you said, who were not checked for COVID-19, have left the asylum centres. They are now allowed to collide elsewhere, even if it is like herring in a tonne. In my municipality, near Antwerp, there is currently a woman, pregnant by her fifth child, and she has to cook together with eight people on a small apartment with two bedrooms. What I'm saying now may be very scratchy, but in my view, that situation is guilty of omission. That is not explained to the citizens or even to those asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u29	Madam Minister, I found your answers very clear in the previous sitting, but not at all today. I found them confusing and often revolve around the pot, without really getting to the specific questions we had asked. I have prepared a number of simple yes-no questions for my reply so that you can just nod and we will get an answer. The first question was quite simple. Were there any criminal illegals involved in the release of criminals? You're saying no?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u30	I already told you that. There were no people who had committed facts against public order at the time of the one-off release. In the meantime, if there are people whose term has expired or who the judge has decided after the famous report at RTBF that we should let them go, then we have to let them go. We follow the law, whether you like it or not. We respect the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u31	That's obvious. Then you will also be reassuring in this answer. Therefore, no criminal illegals have been unloaded from the closed centres and not directly from the prisons. That's all I wanted to hear from you. I also had a question about that release from the locked down center. Was that man finally released or repatriated? That wasn't clear to me either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u32	Everyone I take care of in a center or hospital is dear to me, but forgive me if I don't know everyone. I don't know. I don't deal with individual cases. That's not a policy either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u33	That's right. That's why I asked you if there were any more falls.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u34	I have taken all these measures in the centers to protect the staff, to keep out the infections in our centers, and you are asking me about one person. I don't know who this is about. I just don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u35	Madam Minister, I conclude from your reply that this was a unique case and that no other persons were released from the closed centres because it was considered that social discrimination could not be respected. I think that's important. Even if it is only one case, it can set a precedent for all other cases. I do not think it is possible for more than half of the population to be released in order to comply with these hygiene measures, if it subsequently becomes apparent that the court finds that this is not the case and so many more people need to be released. As I said, if you want to make room, continue on repatriation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u36	The separation of powers is a fact that we must accept.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u37	You said repatriations could still take place. Of course, you have our full support for this. I hope there will be more. This is the way to free up space and to avoid such cases of persons going to trial because their safety is not guaranteed. I would like to call again here to look into this matter. In the event that a full ruling has not been reached in this case, I would ask that you appeal, not set precedents, that you decide to repatriate the person in question and that you do so in all the following cases, instead of releasing them. You will also receive our full support for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u38	Minister, I have the impression that there has been no clear and detailed response on the closed centre of Merksplas, on what appears in the report of the RTBF, which was raised by the Federal Migration Centre, Myria. Minister, I am really asking you to take the time to watch this report. A colleague even put the link to access this report in the chat window. This really deserves to be investigated and the management of this centre questioned. For the rest, I'm still a little shocked to hear systematic comparisons between the closed centres and the prison. One thing in common is that the people who are there don't want to be there. That's undeniable! But for the rest, what a violent comparison, knowing that most people in the closed centre have committed only one crime, that of not being in order of stay! I think this comparison says a lot about it. A month and a half ago the world stopped, the borders for the most part were cut off, the majority of planes were no longer flying, only the Horeca and the culture stopped. But we continue to expel foreigners. I'm not even talking about dangerous or convicted people. That, I think, is no problem. But we continue to expel people who have not committed any other offence than being without a valid residence permit on our territory. It still says a lot about our world and it makes me rather sad.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u39	Madam Secretary, you've provided a lot of information. Nevertheless, I have four points of reply. Firstly, on asylum applications and digital registration, you say that 600 more applications will have to be dealt with in the coming weeks. From this I conclude that the waiting period for the non-vulnerable profiles is seriously increasing, until apparently several weeks. This is problematic because this new system does not provide for reception in the period between registration and the actual appointment to apply for asylum. As far as the vulnerable profiles in that system are concerned, we're talking federal proceedings. It has the effect that there is no guarantee of shelter. That was much more the case in the previous system. So in fact it is also up to the federal government to take responsibility for this and to organise shelter. Even for the vulnerable profiles, you can't assure us there's shelter. You referred in your reply to a number of local authorities. We know that, but there are flaws there, so it's not a good system. Secondly, as regards the exit from the asylum centres, I would like to refer to Mr Metsu's speech. The system of meal cheques and the like wasn't new to me. I think it is understandable that an exit from the asylum centres, where capacity utilisation is now 97%, should be encouraged in COOVID-19 times. However, we must ensure that the alternative accommodation is in order and that this is done in decent conditions. We cannot allow people to flow out of Fedasil's asylum centres without guaranteeing that they have a good and decent alternative. It is very important that the outflow to the LOIs is maintained, otherwise the pressure will increase to close LOIs and we will also lose them. Thirdly, the closed centres. I have great respect for the management and staff of closed centres, who work in difficult conditions. But, Madam Minister, I would have expected from you a clear commitment and an acknowledgement that things have gone wrong, that you are sorry and that you will deal with this. I missed that in your answer. As far as Merksplas is concerned, you say you haven't seen the reportage on the RTBF, but that's not necessary either. Many colleagues have referred to Merksplas in their question. You or your cabinet should have been aware of what is going on there, even if you have not seen the reportage yourself. That's irrelevant. I have given a number of examples, for example, that there is not always hot water and that there is much more use of solitary cells, even for people who are ill, but you have not gone into that. You did answer my question about the spoiled food. That was a concrete answer, but on a number of other points there was no answer. I have missed that global recognition of you where you would say that things are going wrong and that you would deal with them, because that is unacceptable to you. Finally, my colleague Simon Moutquin is right. We know what is going on in Merksplas only because Myria has gathered a number of testimonies there. We are far less aware of the situation in other closed centres. That control of NGOs, Migration Network and MEPs is important. I am convinced that we can organise this, with respect for social distancing. Madam Secretary, you said that you would ask DVZ to allow more contact in the closed centres. Does that mean more physical visits? Is that what you meant with more contact? That was unclear. Do you mean telephone contact, or indeed site visits, for which we are all asking parties, taking into account, of course, health and safety regulations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I have asked you very much, thank you for examining, requesting and listing a great deal of that. Many of my questions today were about the most vulnerable. It is clear that you are working on solutions for many aspects, but much remains to be done on many other issues. I would like to call on you to make this permanent work and to consider this crisis, however strange it may sound, as an opportunity to go on new and innovative paths and thus make the Foreign Affairs Service, Fedasil and other services strong public services, services of the twenty-first century. In this sense, I am very pleased with the efforts you have made to improve Internet access in the reception centres. It is a world of difference for all residents, especially for minors, to be able to keep in touch with those they love, but also to inform them of the COOVID measures. At the same time, it is essential for their further development to continue to promote their learning opportunities. I'm counting on you to keep pushing this through. I paid a lot of attention to the most vulnerable in my questions, with also a strong focus on unaccompanied minors. I would like to call on you to assist them as much as possible, especially in these particular circumstances, in submitting asylum applications, but also to ensure the reception of unregistered minors of any age, including those over 15. I will continue to follow this up at forthcoming committee meetings and I hope to welcome further good steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u41	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the answer. What is happening in Merksplas makes it clear that there is an urgent need for transparency and clarity about the situation in the closed centres. It is unacceptable that these abuses should go to the media via hidden camera images of residents themselves. You wonder whether these images are true, but they show precisely why controls by lawyers, NGOs and representatives of the people are necessary, as Mr De Vriendt has just pointed out. You also make the point that I say that there is a great deal of fear in the centre of Merksplas. You put that into perspective by saying that the whole population is afraid. At the same time, however, you continue to defend that people's representatives should not get into the wings where people are being held, because there would be a great deal of fear of being infected. I therefore do not understand your comment. After seeing the images distributed via RTBF, we can only conclude that there is no safe accommodation in the closed centre of Merksplas. However, we are also very concerned about the situation in the other closed centres. Mrs De Block, we are therefore in favour of transferring residents to places where security measures can be guaranteed in a humane manner. You invite me to make a reflection on this together. However, so many ideas have already been launched by many organisations. The issue was also raised during the previous topical debate. Then the slope of vacant holiday parks was pushed forward. They could be opened up to homeless people as well as those people. This is about general public health. It is in the general interest of everyone that those people can also stay somewhere. My second question was about the people who were released from the closed centres. You replied that the vast majority do have shelter with family or friends. But what happens to those who do not have shelter? You didn't say anything about that. We can't just leave them to their fate. A solution must also be found for them. The Brussels mayor himself recently criticized the approach of the Foreign Affairs Office in the city council. He stated that 298 asylum seekers would have been released without delay and would have been taken to the Brussels-North railway station. You can't do that. At a time when the entire population has been sensitized to stay inside, we must ensure that everyone can stay inside and that no one is left behind. This means that we will have to actively seek shelter for those people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u42	Mr President, Minister, we have a great deal of answers, but you did not respond to some of the issues in a concrete way. I understand that you are making efforts with regard to social distancing in asylum and emergency shelters. You took a turn and said with regard to small-scale local care that it is now difficult for municipal and city authorities and so on. Agreed, it is difficult now, but there is, of course, a dispersal plan in your slide. I asked a question about this today, but I did not receive an immediate answer. CD&V wants this distribution plan to be rolled out in small entities with local reception. It would have been useful for you at this time that people in smaller rooms and locally would be taken in separate homes. Take up that challenge for the future and roll out your dispersal plan. You referred to Mrs Muylle and Mr Ducarme, I don't care, but it is important that everyone, including people on the run and without papers, get the basic rights. We also support you when you say that we should go for temporary residence permits at these times. However, we ask that you and your colleagues continue to ensure that everyone can benefit from basic rights, health and nutrition.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u43	Minister, I see that this whole conversation brings you great joy. There are, however, relatively difficult situations for those living with them, whether they are staff of all these organizations or residents in a closed centre or an open reception centre. You're making the argument that everyone is scared and that it's normal. You know, however, that our mission as politicians is to protect the most vulnerable and all these people are in particular vulnerable during this epidemic. You did respond. I won't say otherwise. I can't believe you've done it in a satisfactory way. I won't go that far. You will probably also say that it is very subjective and that it is political. I will tell you that the role of the State is to ensure, as I have just pointed out, the protection of the most vulnerable. This is not a subjective way of assessing the situation, it is an objective way and, as such, there are still huge gaps in the reception of the weakest. Unaccompanied minors have been mentioned, a whole series of asylum applications that cannot be effectively formulated at this time. We also talked about people in the closed centre. It is these vulnerabilities that we are talking about and it is the duty of the State to ensure the protection of these people. With regard to the closed centres and the situation in Merksplas that other colleagues have mentioned, you say that it is probably subjective, that everyone needs to be consulted, etc. But since you do not allow NGOs or parliamentarians to enter these places of detention, how do you want the objective part, as you say, to be updated? I think it is a great mistake at the moment not to be able to actually report a number of situations. Merksplas was mentioned, but it would also be transparent to see what was happening in other closed centres. You also mentioned the number of people who were still staying in these centres. I really invite you, even if it seems to be half taken into account, to accompany all these vulnerabilities at best. The State must, according to international conventions and other legislation, ensure the highest possible protection, despite the difficulties we face. The voluntary sector is at your disposal and makes recommendations every day. At least use these to discuss them and put in place original and new solutions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Personally, I missed some of them, the sound being very bad at times. For example, I have not heard the exact figures for rations and the food budget. I will ask you again some questions after reading the report of the committee. Concerning the Fedasil centres, in an effort to be able to help you and that we are moving forward constructively together, it would be interesting to know the occupancy figures of each centre. That would allow us to know where there is overpopulation. In this case, we could, as local elected representatives and through our networks, push for local reception initiatives (ILA) in nearby municipalities. You are talking about weak local authorities, I know some who are willing to move forward but who are waiting for directives or budgets. I don't know if they're closed envelopes under the ALAs. Regarding unaccompanied foreign minors (MENA), I respect, like you, the staff, who are worried like many people who work in the field. If I'm not mistaken, you've talked about sixteen requests. I ask myself the question of a possible alternative combining your concern to protect the staff of the Aliens Office with the reality of the MENA and the vulnerable. Could we not imagine a direct telephone interview, a telephone number that could be transmitted to the MENA who arrive at the Petit Château for the registration of these miners? With regard to closed centres, you are talking about the need for objective information and I would like to join you on this subject. I have been in a closed centre ten times since the beginning of my term of office, and I have no personal pleasure in doing so. No one goes to this kind of heart gaiety center. I am not asking you to let me, as a parliamentarian, enter the closed centres. I can hear your arguments. That's not my point at all. I'm just talking about the need for control. Since Myria was able to go to the closed centre of Merksplas, why not offer her a tour of the closed centres, with all the necessary precautions, for an hour – including in the wings – so that she could give herself an initial expertise until the parliamentarians could go there? I would like to assure you that every time I went to a closed centre, including the day before confinement, I had taken all the necessary security measures for the residents, the staff and then for myself, but that is not the most important.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u45	I will formulate the questions I have prepared for the topical and urgent debate as a few brief recommendations. Firstly, the situation in asylum seekers' centres. Two weeks ago, asylum seekers were banished because they were drunk, had broken in and violated the corona directives. There was an asylum seeker there who refused to wash his hands with alcohol gel because of the Ramadan. So there are still quite a few incidents in the asylum-seekers' centres, but also around them. We're still getting complaints. Photos and videos are being forwarded to us. Even mayors are still pulling the alarm. I therefore ask you, Madam Minister, to review the situation. Once again, I ask you to put asylum seekers' centres in lockdown and not to postpone it to the Risk Assessment Group, like your colleague, Minister De Crem. They're virologists, they're not people who know what's going on on the ground. These are not people who have experience in the field of asylum-seekers' centres and what is happening there. I would really like to call on you to accept your responsibility and not to put it down to some scientists who really do not have any expertise in that part of the debate. Have you not considered temporarily suspending the right to asylum, Madam Secretary? Many other countries have done so. I suggest you follow their example. A great deal has already been done with regard to workers in asylum seekers' centres, but there is still work to be done. We are still getting a lot of complaints about this. Finally, I hope that the illegals released from the closed centres will at least be followed. You and I know that none of these people will follow orders to leave the territory. Please follow those people so that after this crisis we can correct the grave mistakes that have been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u46	I would like to thank everyone for their input into this topical debate. The minister had time until 4:30 p.m. to stay with us. We have respected that timing very well. I suggest to my fellow Members that, should they have any further questions or interplays, they submit them orally or in writing. Next week, the Home Affairs Commission meets at 10 a.m. on Tuesday morning. Then Minister De Crem comes to answer a number of oral questions and we hold the discussion of the relevant legislative proposal. The Secretariat will seek a date for a new round of questions with Minister De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u47	Mr President, may I come back to my last question for a moment, because I thought the Minister would respond to that? Madam Minister, you are asking the DVZ to investigate what contact is possible with regard to the closed centres. What exactly do you mean by that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u48	I mean a physical contact with that, like in prison, where the movement can be done in a safe way. Then, for example, a contact may be possible by means of plexiglass.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u49	Also by a Member of Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u50	Yeah, I might. For visitors in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u51	Mr President, I would have liked to have received an answer to this question which has been asked for several weeks. Will the minister send me this response in writing?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u52	What do you want to know?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u53	I'm not going to read the question again. You got it. I want to know when the centres and others are going to be deengorged?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u54	We just did. We come from 96%, now we are, as in Mouscron, 90% and the recommendations aim to decrease to 85%. If you really found a way, you have to tell me. For the new centres, it takes at least two to three months to start planning, and a lot of things can happen. If you have a miracle cure, send it to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u55	I finally got a semblance of an answer with the opening. You told me about the opening of the new centre, and if I understand correctly, it takes three months to be able to transfer people from a centre to the new centre. Is that it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u56	You will have the opportunity to ask questions in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u57	I ask the same question every time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic164x.u58	I get it. I will close the work for today and we will see each other again at another meeting. The agenda will be sent to you this week.
