ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u1	Madam Chair, Minister, this issue has been introduced for a long time. It referred to the fact that only 21 out of 546 railway stations in Belgium allow each person with reduced mobility (PMR) to travel independently on the station platform and to take the train freely without any assistance - less than 4%. While these 21 stations are fully accessible to PMRs and also offer the assistance of staff sent to assist a PMR to get on the train - activate an access ramp, for example, to enable it to get on board -, 94 stations are not fully accessible but offer assistance. And 70 stations have full accessibility, but no personal assistance. In 361 stations, unfortunately, neither is offered. It must be noted that the stations of Waremme and Huy, the district from which I come, stations particularly frequented by commuters, are devoid of any equipment - an abnormal situation for all PMRs in Belgium. Minister, SNCB recently established an "accessibility coordinator" to facilitate the lives of PMRs. He's in charge. Can you confirm that your firm is following this file to support Wallonia PMR travellers, in particular? According to the Wallonia-Brussels Accessibility Collective, for a station to be fully accessible, an elevator or ramp is required for each wharf; the wharfs must be raised to 76 cm, tactile guidance lines must be placed; at least one window or machine must be accessible to persons in wheelchairs. In this context, are work planned for the Huy and Waremme stations to make them accessible to the PMRs? If so, within what time frame can they be expected to materialize?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u2	Colleagues, as mentioned in my answer to questions No 2538, No 2624, No 2630, No 2631, No 2684, No 2689 and No 2690 at the Mobility Committee of 21 January 2020, the number of stations where there is a possibility of booking assistance three hours in advance has more than doubled two years ago. We went from 18 to 41 stations. These are the most important stations, which account for two thirds of the passengers who take the train on weekdays at one of these stations. In 132 additional stations, PMR assistance is available for a 24-hour reservation period. As regards SNCB's RMP management policy, the European obligations are clear. The challenges are enormous. SNCB is going to do a lot of work in this direction. On Tuesday, again in the press, SNCB announced its intention to double the number of stations fully accessible to PMRs. With this new "accessibility coordinator" function, SNCB wants to improve its PMR management policy and ensure a more coherent approach for all PMR commuters. In addition, SNCB, in collaboration with Infrabel, is preparing an integrated plan for the upgrading of docks and full accessibility for the period 2020-2030. This plan requires significant investment. I have estimated them at a billion, but the SNCB is not saying it yet. This funding will be negotiated in the multi-year investment plan with the future government. The stations of Huy and Waremme are included in the SNCB's proposal for a plan for a construction in the years 2025 and 2026 at the latest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u3	Minister, thank you for that clarification. I am pleased to see that indeed the stations of Huy and Waremme will be registered as early as 2025. We are well aware that the stakes are there, important, and that the investments are heavy but you must absolutely support them. Indeed, we must more than ever guarantee the accessibility of public transport for all, at a time when financial difficulties are present and are likely to be even more so tomorrow. I will not fail to follow up on this and to recall this need and commitment that you made to meet by 2025 at the latest the urgent need of the PMRs to be able to access rail transport independently, because this is also social inclusion. Autonomy is independence and it is a vital need for our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u4	Mr Minister, in the case of Infrabel, it is a plurality to talk about works of art when bridges or tunnels are placed on a railway line. That is a good word for infrastructure works that sometimes, unfortunately, look very different from what the word says. Also in the case of the two railway bridges in Dendermonde on the railway line 57 Dendermonde-Lokeren, which cross two regional roads, it is about grey, grey concrete structures that could be visually handled. Recently I have learned that some cities and municipalities will do so effectively in good cooperation with Infrabel. For example, the city of Sint-Niklaas is working on a greening of the viaduct that crosses the city. Mr Minister, is Infrabel open to such initiatives for visual embellishment, for example by the installation of works of art, in the literal sense, such as graphic painting, or possibly greening? Under what conditions is that possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, these are interesting initiatives. Infrabel is open to all discussion and cooperation in the field of upgrading the railway heritage and architecture, although this is not part of its priorities and basic tasks. However, each project must be considered on a case-by-case basis. For Infrabel, it is important that such a project does not have any negative impact on safety or on rail activities. It is therefore necessary to establish a framework for such initiatives, including, for example, the following guidelines. Firstly, the modifications planned by the city do not damage the structure of the viaduct and allow the smooth inspection of the structure for defects and damage characteristics. Secondly, as road manager, the city is responsible for safety and takes on board the future maintenance of all the proposed adjustments. Thirdly, the city agrees to restore the work of art to its original state if the adjustments made would lose their function and/or added value and the city no longer wishes to maintain it. Fourthly, the applicant is responsible for obtaining all legally required permits for the project. Finally, in the event of an emergency, Infrabel reserves the right to remove the adjustment without prior notification, in order to be able to look at parts of its installations and take measures. Infrabel has no knowledge of the financing of such projects. However, there are opportunities for funding them through the local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u6	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I am pleased to hear that Infrabel is effectively open to this kind of proposal. Of course, I agree that this is not one of the highest priorities and that it should certainly not interfere with the core tasks of Infrabel as an infrastructure manager. I understand that Infrabel requires a framework and a direction. It is therefore useful for us as a parliamentary group to think further about this. I will certainly pass on the message to the local government that this is a possibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u7	Madam President, Minister, a few years ago you concluded a very interesting cooperation agreement with the regional authorities on priority rail projects, which the regional authorities regard as important for the future and on which they actively wish to cooperate. Over the last few months, I have asked you a number of questions about various projects. From your answers, I have made the curious observation that almost every project is delayed. However, they have a relatively short lead time since the start of the cooperation agreement. Let me give you some examples. The project around freight line 204 has been delayed for two years. The project on railway 57 has been delayed for two years. The project for railway line 58 is also two years behind schedule. For the project on railway line 52, the start-up was planned in 2019, but nothing has happened yet and there may be at least two years delay. Mr. Secretary, that is striking. This is a state of affairs dating from before the corona crisis, which has nothing to do with it. What is the reason for these delays? They're just a little too repetitive to turn out to be a coincidence. Where's the cause? Are there any projects that are effectively on schedule? What happened to the budget entered in the multiannual policy planning for this purpose? What participation do you give to the regions in any replanning of the planned works?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u8	Mr Roggeman, all the projects within the multi-annual strategic investment plan have been launched with the minimal design of a framework for feasibility studies and a social cost-benefit analysis. I will provide you with an annex containing additional information on the Flemish priority infrastructure projects. The main causes of delays are the completion of the studies, the obtaining of permits and the alignment with the Regions and the municipalities. With regard to the completion of the technical studies, the scope of the work to be carried out is reviewed in order to respect the original scope. This may lead to higher costs, such as the abolition of passenger crossings, or lower costs, such as the electrification of railway line 19. With regard to obtaining permits and aligning with the regions and municipalities, planning may be influenced by the time required for obtaining permits and the requirements in this context may have a major impact on the scope of the work to be carried out. For example, this has an important impact on the works of the Old Countries. The budgetary envelopes allocated to the priority projects of the Regions are reserved for those projects. The scope of the priority projects and their related budgetary envelopes are laid down in the relevant implementing cooperation agreements and their annexes, in particular the project-related implementing contracts. In the event of significant deviations, additional implementing cooperation agreements should be concluded between the federal and regional authorities to adjust planning and budgets. This is linked to a very precise and legally determined succession between the Regions, the Federal State, SNCB and Infrabel. The only Walloon project for which additional funding has been decided so far concerns the Athus-Mont-Saint-Martin project in France.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. In this country licensing procedures for large infrastructure works often have a very long lead time. I understand that this is a factor for delay. However, I find it strange that you also refer to delays in the completion of the studies, as this is one of the core tasks and permanent tasks of Infrabel since its creation more than ten years ago. I find it surprising that there is a further delay in this. The same applies to the participation and involvement of the Regions. I would be surprised to see that this would result in a factor of delay as it concerns net projects for which implementation was initially explicitly requested by the Regions. I will continue to look into this matter and hope in any case for a smooth implementation and replanning of all these important rail projects, all of which have great added value, as the local competent authorities point out. I am also looking forward to the annexes you have mentioned on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u10	Madam President, Minister, the European Disability Card is an identity card that allows people with disabilities to express themselves, even when communication with third parties is difficult. At the time, more than ten years ago, the initiative was conceived by a member of my party. It was picked up by then MEP Helga Stevens, who brought it to the European Parliament. The European Commission then started working on this and the card was rolled out two years ago by Secretary of State Zuhal Demir. Meanwhile, the card is in use in as many as eight EU Member States. The application of that card to SNCB is not so obvious, despite its broad acceptance elsewhere, even abroad. SNCB, according to my information, does offer an advantage card, i.e. the increased allowance card, for travellers with a limited professional income or with an increased health benefit, but the European Disability Card is not recognised by SNCB, according to my information, as a sufficient means of proving the existence of the handicap as a function of the preferential rate. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions about the current way of working with SNCB in relation to discounts for persons with visible or invisible disabilities. What discount rates are there? Who are they applicable to? In what way are they awarded? Does SNCB not effectively recognise the European Disability Card as sufficient evidence for that preferential tariff? What future plans does SNCB have in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u11	Mr Roggeman, SNCB is obliged to comply with the management contract with the State. Annex 12 to the management contract describes the tariff reductions imposed by the State and the procedures for free transport. The card for increased compensation is an example of this. On the other hand, the European Disability Card (EDC) is not included in the management contract and therefore does not give entitlement to a discount. The EDC cannot be considered as proof that the criteria for granting the increased concession have been met. The criteria for the EDC, on the one hand, and the increased concession card, on the other, are not necessarily the same. Moreover, the EDC is a European card, while the status of increased concession is regulated nationally. For example, foreign travellers holding an EDC do not necessarily benefit from the increased concession. In this context, I would also refer you to the answer I gave to Mrs Inez De Coninck on 6 June 2018 in reply to her oral question No. 25853. By way of illustration, in 2019 SNCB sold almost 3 million train tickets with a discount due to increased concession.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u12	Minister, you are giving a clear explanation for the absence of recognition. It is not included in the management contract. That seems to me to be a perfectly logical explanation of the situation, because, as we all know, the management contract expired in 2012, and this initiative only dates from two years ago, at least for our territory. There is an additional argument for the renewal of management contracts, for which at least additional arguments were needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u13	A few months ago, SNCB reported that it was going to revise the names of its product range. Apparently, this had to be made clearer and more transparent through the introduction of new terms. For example, the GoPass 10 is renamed Youth Multi. The B-Dagtrip becomes the Discovery Combi. A standard bill becomes a Standard Ticket and a Weekend Ticket. A group ticket becomes a Group Ticket. I wonder what SNCB's reasoning is behind these name changes. How much is all this? What does this mean for new initiatives in terms of promotion and marketing? What the hell is wrong with names in the country languages?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u14	In a study with its travellers, SNCB learns that its product range can be more transparent. Therefore, SNCB decided to change the names of most of its products in order to make its product range even clearer and more transparent to the customer. The changes should ensure that the names always refer to product characteristics. This in turn must lead to the customer purchasing the product that is most adapted to his or her needs. Concepts have been chosen which are clearly understood in the different national languages. In order to choose the names, SNCB also made use of user panels. The conditions of use of the different products do not change. The old and new names will continue to exist alongside each other for at least six months to give customers time to get used to them. The customer will find all the information on the SNCB website.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You are talking about promoting transparency and recognizability, but I think this is one of the drawbacks of this new system. A ticket formula such as the B-Dagtrip has been in place for a long time and is well known to the public. This is at the expense of recognizability. I also did not receive an answer to my question as to what the additional costs would be for the additional promotion of this initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u16	Snow is not at the moment, I think, but a question, Mr Roggeman.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u17	Madam President, that's right. This question was tabled a few months ago, but the topical and urgent debate stopped. It's a beautiful spring day today. The sun shines, the birds whistle, but after sunshine also rain and over time snow comes, which inevitably leads to delays, grid failures and technical problems on our rail links. Mr Minister, can you give an overview of the delays caused by the winter weather in recent years? What prevention measures are planned in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u18	Madam President, Mr Infrabel will let me know. Age deposition and sometimes even ice formation on the overhead lines disturbs the power supply of the train engine, allowing the train to stop. Indeed, this layer of ripening or ice works in isolation and disturbs the quality of the voltage supplied to the machine. This sometimes leads to the failure of the engine, with severe consequences for punctuality on the line in question. In order to reduce this inconvenience for customers, Infrabel lays down trains equipped with a stronger pantograph at the end of the night and in consultation with SNCB. This pantograph consists of a steel tow piece instead of a carbon tow piece, which allows the freezing deposit of the overhead line to be scraped so that the following trains can run more smoothly. Since last winter, Infrabel has also introduced a work train with a flat car on which a pantograph with a nozzle is mounted. Using a laser camera, the exact location of the overhead line is determined and a gel is sprayed on the overhead line that limits freezing. Another phenomenon that can affect the regularity and safety of train traffic is the loss of adhesion of the train. This problem occurs due to the environmental humidity and in hilly areas and gets worse when the leaves fall. This is prevented by applying a gel to the top of the rail, which gives a new grip to the train. In addition, the technical teams of Infrabel have cut the slopes along the tracks. Thanks to close cooperation with the railway companies, Infrabel can also take various preventive measures, such as emergency towing trains, designed to teach train drivers how to adjust their driving style. The exceptional weather conditions during the winter indeed lead to delays and abolitions. I cannot elaborate on the detailed information you are asking for, but I can give you some global figures. During the winter 2017-2018 the exceptional weather conditions caused 5.765 minutes delay and 294 train abolitions. During the winter 2018-2019, 13,083 minutes delay and 221 train abolitions were recorded. During the last winter 2019-2020, delays and abolitions were exceptionally slow to 40,812 minutes and 576 train abolitions respectively. The data for 2019-2020 can of course be explained by the extremely heavy impact of the successive exceptional storms and not by the rare winter conditions of this winter. To avoid or resolve delays and abolitions by winter weather, Infrabel takes preventive measures for winter and management measures during the winter season. Before the start of the winter period, the following shall be done: the monitoring of the correct operation of the infrastructure, e.g. of track equipment, the installation of overhead lines and consideration, etc., with special attention to the exchange heating. There is also the verification of critical safety conditions for typical winter articles. And finally, there is the organisation of drainage systems to keep the overhead lines ice-free. Management measures during the winter season are included in the winter plan, which is updated annually. The operational services of Infrabel and SNCB monitor the weather forecast and assess whether the weather forecasts reach certain limit conditions. If necessary, additional measures will be implemented, such as the adjustment of travel routes, the introduction of an adapted timetable in the event of very extreme snowfalls, a reduction in speed, the activation of freezing services, etc. For the sake of completeness, I would add that SNCB is also taking preventive measures and management measures in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u19	Minister, it is indeed a very comprehensive, detailed and technical answer. I'm glad to hear that Infrabel is working on the recurring problem. Indeed, the figures show that there was more than 40,000 minutes delay in 2019, which is not less. Let us hope that the preventive measures will be effective by the coming winter, so that the burden on the traveller is limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u20	Madam President, Minister, the Board of Directors of SNCB of 21 February 2020 decided to award the construction of a new head office of SNCB and HR Rail to a consortium of Besix, CFE and Immobel. This new complex will have an area of 75,000 square meters and should lead to efficiency gains through the centralisation of different managements and services. Minister, what is the state of play and the planning of this project? What's the cost? What is going to happen to the sites that will be out of use as a result of this new construction project?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB has today decided to designate the consortium of Besix, CFE Real Estate and Immobel as its preferred provider. In concrete terms, this means that now that the 15-day standstill period has expired, the final negotiations are finalized, after which the consortium has to prepare its licence applications. Once the licence has been obtained, SNCB will award the public contract to the consortium and can start its work. Taking into account the time limits for obtaining an authorisation and assuming that it can be granted without dispute, the works would start at the beginning of 2022. SNCB imposed a deadline of 33 months for the execution of the works in its handbook. All the managements of SNCB currently housed in different buildings around the Brussels-South railway station will be centralized in the new headquarters. According to SNCB, bringing together all these employees under the same roof will promote transversal cooperation, enabling productivity and efficiency gains, greater interaction, fewer movements between the different buildings, etc. SNCB informs me that this centralisation in a new headquarters also leads to cost savings. On the one hand, bringing the employees together, coupled with the introduction of the new work of the new way of working, can significantly reduce the office area, on the other hand, the new building will also be state of the art in terms of techniques and energy performance, including solar panels and heat pumps and a green certificate excellent. The current office buildings of SNCB which it has occupied around the Brussels-South railway station will be left empty: Delta building located at 56 rue de France, Saint-Gilles, Zennewater building located at 52 and 54 rue de France, Saint-Gilles. The building complex located in the Rue de France nos. 85, 87 and 89, rue de Parentés, No. 30 to 38, rue de l'Education, No. 151, 157 and 159 and Barastraat No. 108, 110, 112 and 114, the site France Bara to Barastraat nr. 144 and the building Atrium, located at Hallepoortlaan nr. 40 in Saint Gillis will also be left empty. The sale of these buildings is part of the public contract for the project of the Brussels-South Buildings Master Plan of SNCB. This contract consists, on the one hand, of the renovation of the SNCB's new headquarters to Fonsnylaan and, on the other, of the purchase of the listed buildings by the consortium, the contract of which is awarded. The proceeds from the sale of the four sites thus partly offset the investments that the development of this building of which SNCB remains the owner and as such reduces the total budget for SNCB. In view of the current stage of financial finalisation of the final negotiations, SNCB currently prefers not to publish provisional figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u22	Thank you for your detailed reply, Minister. I regret that we are once again not getting any financial clarity, because that is the key question in such projects. It is already positive that the sale of existing sites and the centralisation of all managements are effective, otherwise there would have been little efficiency gains.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament 55003735C by Mrs Daems will be converted into a written question. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55003779C, 55003780C, 55003781C, 55003782C, 55003783C, 55003784C, 55003785C and 55003786C of Mr Kir shall be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u24	Debates of the European Parliament 55003788C by Mr Kir is without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u25	Mr. Secretary of State, tracking is a well-known problem with Infrabel. There have been several projects for this purpose for many years. I have looked into the state of play of some of these projects in the Infrabel safety report and I have noticed four interesting prevention projects that are in full swing. More specifically the project of the blue lights, the intelligent cameras, the intelligent fences and the trip mats. I actually have the same questions for each of these four initiatives. How is this evaluated? Where was it rolled out? Where else will it be rolled out? What is the cost of the project? My other question is not entirely about the same theme. I noticed in recent events that, unfortunately, since the start of the corona crisis, the number of tragic accidents on the track seems to be increasing. In recent weeks, there have been accidents in the newspapers on a road crossing in Okegem, an accident in Lendelede in which a person died tragically, just like at the station of Luttre. A moped rider in Lede has fallen and escaped death. The day before yesterday, another tragic accident happened in Jambes. There can be no state in this type of accident unless there is an attempt at suicide. Infrabel does not like to communicate about these figures, quite rightly. This is, of course, a sensitive issue which needs careful communication. I lost a personal friend to suicide a few years ago, so I fully understand that. However, if it is a different problem and it appears to be a structural problem of a different order, then it is up to us as directors to respond. That is why I choose to ask this question. To what extent is this recent apparent increase in accidents actually a worrying increase? To what extent are these accidents where there is a suspicion of a factor of intensity because of the victim?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, improving safety is a priority. The phenomenon of trespassing increased continuously between 2011 and 2017, reaching its peak in 2017, with 818 cases recorded. In 2018, there were 768 and in 2019, 705. Over the past two years, there has been a decrease in the phenomenon, which can be explained in particular by measures taken by Infrabel in terms of security of infrastructure, public awareness and repression. Trespassing takes place throughout the network. There are no lines with special impact. We're talking about specific places, hot spots. Infrabel conducts a study every four years to define critical points on its network. The study carried out in 2016 highlighted 53 hot spots, 29 railway stations, 17 areas in the middle of the road and 7 crossings. In total, these hot spots account for 55% of all trespassing cases on 10% of the network. In 2020, a new hot spots study will be launched and will be able to be analysed in the wake of the one carried out in 2016. This study may be postulated because of the decrease in activity in the broad sense. Maybe delaying it a little would make sense. There is a larger number of hot spots on the lines at and in the entrance to Brussels. High population and railway density are major risk factors. Moreover, the presence of many tunnels in Brussels also causes intrusions in winter by homeless people. Large stations are also heavily affected, as well as stations with low or medium wharfs. In order to deal with the phenomenon, the National Respect Plan was launched in early 2019. The plan provides for a cross-cutting approach with all parties involved: federal and local police, Securail, Infrabel, prosecutors. It is based on three pillars: awareness-raising, prevention and repression. Various awareness-raising campaigns have been carried out in the media and on social networks, as well as in schools. In terms of prevention, a campaign to secure the hot spots identified was carried out (laying fences, laying ban panels, connected fences, detection cameras, laying anti-intrusion carpets, etc.).). Finally, in terms of repression, a large-scale crackdown was carried out in September 2019. This action coordinated by Infrabel was carried out in collaboration with Securail, the railway police and local police. In 2020, national and local campaigns will still be organised at the end of the year in the same way in order to verbalise offenders. With regard to a number of specific measures that have been implemented in order to prevent rail tracks, I can say the following. The evaluation of the Blue Lights project is to analyse the number of cases before and after the installation of the lamps. The stations that were first equipped, such as Dave-Saint-Martin and Kortenberg, will have to wait at least until 2023 to get a clear picture of the efficiency of the system and to make a representative evaluation of the measure. Blue Lights have been installed in 10 Belgian stations, notably Dave-Saint-Martin, Kortenberg, Ypres, Peruwelz, Boechout, Mortsel-Oude God, Mortsel-Deurnesteenweg, Mortsel-Liersesteenweg, Mortsel and Jemeppe-sur-Meuse. In 2020, it is up to Namur's station to be equipped with it, if the corona crisis does not delay. In 2021 the installation is planned in the stations of Beernem, Aalter and Maria-Aalter. The cost varies according to the number of lamps installed in the stations. In a small station with two platforms eight lamps are installed on average for a cost of 10,000 euros, including lamps and installation. As far as intelligent cameras are concerned, only the Duffel site has so far been evaluated. On the site of Bruges-Sint-Pieters the test phase is still ongoing. A project is also being carried out in Ypres, but that happens along the tracks. In 2019, a significant reduction in the number of cases could be found compared to previous years. The positive results are therefore linked to a whole range of measures and not to a single measure in itself. At the moment there is no new site on the schedule. They want to finish the three pilot sites before considering the security of new sites. The cost varies according to different elements. For the sites of Duffel and Brugge-Sint-Pieters you will find about 50,000 euros per site. With regard to the efficiency of the intelligent fence pilot project, in Jambes more than 50 cases of track runs were previously counted at the hotspot. The system installed has resulted in a drastic tenfold reduction in the number of tracks on that site. Infrabel is considering securing a very sensitive hotspot on the Belgian rail network in 2020-2021, in particular the surroundings of the Brussels-Capellekerk station, in order to prevent access to the tracks and the tunnel of the North-South connection. The installation of the system on line 155 in Jambes has cost 80,000 euros. As regards the efficiency of the trip mats, the evaluation carried out showed that they reduce the number of track runs by more than 90%. The cost per road is about 15,000 euros. Infrabel has compiled a list of 68 hotspot considerations. Currently, Infrabel has 42 considering equipped with this system, already more than 60%. With regard to the accidents with persons mentioned, I can inform you of the following. In Okegem the driver of the road vehicle was blinded by the sun and drove through the closed barriers. In Lendelede it was almost certainly a suicide. In Luttre, it was a suicide. In Lede the driver of a moped crossed road 12 on line 50, although it was closed to road traffic due to work, and fell. However, it should be noted that it is unclear whether the railway services are competent to determine whether or not an event is an accident, suicide or suicide attempt. The investigating body Accidents and Incidents on the Track only conducts investigations into incidents where the rail system may have failed. This was not the case with these events. The proper functioning of the consideration is always tested in the event of an accident. In these cases, the consideration worked as it should. The investigation is therefore conducted by the public prosecutor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u27	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u28	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Kir's 55003789C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u29	Minister, this question dates back a long time ago, but I hope to hear some interesting elements about it from you. At the end of March or early April, falling stones were reported, coming from the vault of the arch bridge in one of the submunicipalities of my city of Bilzen. Over that bridge are the tracks of railway 20 and the future Spartacus rapid tram 1. The passageway was immediately closed by the network manager, who would conduct an investigation into the stability of the bridge. What is the result of Infrabel's stability study? What does that result mean for the future of the bridge? Can the bridge still be repaired or should it be demolished in the long term? The arch bridge in the municipality in question is not the only railway bridge in Bilzen, which is in a poor condition. Last summer there were also problems with a railway bridge in another municipality, in particular Eigenbilzen. That bridge will be demolished. At that time the traffic was already diverted via a third railway bridge on the Sint-Ursulastraat. What was the result of the inspection of that third bridge? Is there any more clarity about the future of the three bridges under the Spartacus project? Will existing bridges be replaced in the long term by new ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u30	My dear colleague, since the bridge is not currently taxed, according to Infrabel there is no stability problem at all. The loose brickwork was immediately removed. A net will be attached to the bridge to prevent the fall of debris. In the Spartacus project, De Lijn provides the necessary adaptations to that bridge to allow rapid tram traffic. The Line will decide on the necessary adaptation works and include the proposals in the licence application.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answer to my questions about the bridge in Hoelbeek, but I also asked questions about a second and a third bridge in another municipality. You didn't tell me about that. I don't suppose you can do that memorized.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u32	I put the question to Infrabel, but I didn't get an answer. I will give you an answer in the course of the next few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u33	Minister, that is very kind. I personally do not blame you, but on the whole I would like to make the following point. Madam President, perhaps you can take the initiative on this. My question dates from April 1st. If the railway manager is unable to give a concrete answer to a question by the end of May, we have a problem. Then we can't work seriously. Then our control function as a Member of Parliament will be severely curtailed. I insist that a formal initiative be taken from the committee in relation to Infrabel. I understand that sometimes it can be busy and that things are being pushed on the long track, but this is what I find about it. I'll take a look around at the colleagues. I don't think I'm overreacting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u34	I will write it down, take it with me and make sure that we make a comment from the committee to Infrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u35	For my information, are Hoelbeek and Bilzen different bridges?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u36	It is indeed a question of different bridges. Again, I don't blame you, Minister, but I think that Infrabel is really inadequate here. I understand there's a formal mention of that. I do not think we should accept this as representatives of the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u37	Mr Minister, the COOVI station, a somewhat unfortunate name in these times, in Anderlecht, would be opened in the framework of the Regional ExpressNet in 2020. Is that still true? What is the target date for opening? The COOVI station is located at the beginning of the busy bottleneck Brussels and the North-South connection. It is important to know which trains will stop, which directions, which lines and so on. When's the opening scheduled? Which trains will stop at what frequency?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u38	DE SNCB announces that it will operate the station in Anderlecht with trains from December 2020. The S3 trains Zottegem-Dendermonde-Brussels will pick up once per hour and per passenger. This offer will double in December 2021. From then on, two trains will stop per direction and per hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. We are of course pleased with an extra station in December 2020. The deadline set is therefore maintained. Of course, this is another stop for the commuters of South East Flanders, from Zottegem and Denderleeuw to Brussels. It's already a train that doesn't excel in speed and efficiency. I am asking myself about the usefulness and efficiency of an additional stop in Anderlecht-COOVI. That extra stop makes the ride for the commuter even slower. I also notice that the station Anderlecht-COOVI in the Regional ExpressNet serves the Brussels-Capital Region, while the opening of stations, the construction of stations, the double tracks in the other regions, especially in the Flemish region, are constantly postponed. We shall continue to follow that with our eyes open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u40	Madam President, Minister, on 1 March 2020, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg became the first country in the world to make its public transport free of charge. I can testify to the enthusiasm of our great-Ducal neighbours and that of the Belgian borderers in the face of this historic advance for their mobility. This free package addresses both the problem of congestion at the border and within the country, as well as climate issues. But in reality this is, above all, an important social measure which affects 40% of Luxembourg households and represents around 100 euros of savings per household per year. For the Luxembourg State, this measure costs EUR 41 million. But this decrease in revenue actually represents only 8% of the 2020 budget for mobility, or EUR 500 million. This free of charge was preceded by a massive investment by the Grand-Ducal government in infrastructure in order to respond to the increase in the number of users due to the end of the "everything to the car". Mr Minister, first of all I would like to know your position on this innovation in mobility. Of course, the Belgian State's finances probably do not allow the railway to be completely free at the present time. But do you recognise the need to invest heavily in SNCB in order to meet the mobility needs of our citizens? Like the progressive free-of-charge measures provided for by the Walloon and Brussels governments for regional public transport, what would you recommend to make the railway accessible to those who have the least in the coming years? Finally, I would like to know if you have had any contact with the Grand-Ducal Minister in charge of Mobility regarding the recognition of CFL Grand-Ducal Stations on the borders. At present, only the Athus station has this recognition which allows Belgian citizens who cross the border via the train to benefit from the free grand-durale implemented since March. This week, the Friends of Rail proposed to support free border stations within a radius of 20 kilometres from the border. What is your position in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u41	Mrs Hanus, your question has two parts. I have already answered the second in connection with a question put in committee by Mrs Goffinet. To reply synthetically, I remind you that the Athus station has been a special mixed status since the end of the 19th century. Moreover, it is the only station in this case, since it is exactly at the border between the two countries - hence its double status Grand-Ducal and Belgian. The free car becomes operational from Athus, with all the other stations in Belgian territory. The government and Parliament have not decided otherwise and have therefore not chosen to apply free of charge in the first stations within our borders. If we were to do so, then we would have to look at all the border stations and check the legality of using two tariffs on the same national territory. With regard to European legislation, I am not sure that such a provision is allowed. With regard to freedom in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, I know the project for having discussed it several times. I would simply invite you, Mrs Hanus, to take an interest in how this has been funded, as well as the contributors and funding arrangements. I guess the increase in fuel duty will not have escaped you. It should be noted that the consumption in the Grand Duchy is proportionally more by foreign drivers than Luxembourg. In other words, the revenues from the excise duties in question are higher by being generated by foreign drivers. For example, Luxembourg transport was largely financed free of charge. If we were to apply the free system, we should find EUR 600 million - because nothing is actually free - to be added to the EUR 2.8 billion that the Belgian State already pays each year to the two companies. For investment in SNCB, I will still recall the figures. The National Energy-Climate Plan (NECP) foresees that the government will commit to contribute €35 billion by 2031. How are the 35 billions broken down? There is an annual allocation of 30.5 billion for the two railway undertakings, of which a significant investment share is reserved. There's Capex and Opex. Capex is investment. Do you remember the adventure of the virtuous billion? It is no longer 1 billion that is planned, but 5 billion, both for capacity maintenance and capacity extensions. The study carried out by the University of Lausanne a few months ago, I think, shows that the Belgian network is, compared to the normal maintenance of networks in a state, comparable or even better than in a number of neighbouring states, in terms of maintenance. But every year, the equipment degrades. It is therefore necessary to maintain capacity certainly at the beginning. You don't add a veranda to your house when the roof is holed. I often take this example. First, what exists must be properly maintained before extensions are made. In addition, significant extensions are needed to increase rail supply in order to match the increase in demand. I must tell you that today, with the crisis of coronavirus, we do not know what tomorrow will be done. The responsibility lies first with the forecasters. But within SNCB and Infrabel, the exercise will be complicated to determine when and how we will return to the level of train use we experienced in 2019. In 2019, there were 11% more users than in early 2017, with significantly higher growth than in the previous ten years. I hear a lot of talk about the interest that telework has aroused in many workers, and even in companies. What will the future impact be? There is also the apprehension of people who move in relation to public transport. That's a question. I read the press yesterday: in Germany and France, the question is asked as to how users will take over the train, public transport, and how soon they will have regained the habits of 2018 and 2019. Finally, what impact will the coronavirus have on employment in the coming years? We hope that there will not be too much job destruction, but we must be aware that there is still a correlation between the number of jobs occupied and the number of users on trains. All these questions are very open. Different scenarios exist. At the national level, we asked the European Railway Association (ERA) to look at how it sees things, a little like the IASA and IATA do for the air, even if it did not succeed. The idea is to see what scenarios are envisaged. According to German experts and French experts, the level of public transport we experienced in 2019 will not be recovered until 2023 or 2024, which is a huge challenge in technical, financial, budgetary and investment terms. I believe that investments should be continued at the pace at which they were programmed. We know that these are heavy investments that have medium- and long-term effects, the current crisis being, hopefully, a so-called short-term crisis - between six months and two years before it ends, but I am not an epidemiologist. I'm a little statistician, but I'm also a bit of an accountant. I am aware of the revenue losses that Belgian railway companies are currently experiencing in relation to the overall figure. There may be a positive score in comparison with foreign countries. The allocation per passenger/km in Belgium is among the highest in Europe. We often repeat that we have to invest. The ERA demonstrates this in its reports. In fact, the share of federal funding in SNCB's revenues is larger than the share of travellers' revenues. You have to compare 2.8 billion endowments to 600 million "travellers" revenues. In countries such as Germany, a little less in France, the share of "travellers" revenue, as the price of tickets and subscriptions is much higher than in Belgium, is more important than public allocations. Somewhere, it's kind of keeping our state-owned companies safe, but not completely because there's going to be losses. The loss in April alone amounts to about 70 million euros. If you do this for ten months, it's 700 million euros. It's the equivalent of a year's "traveller" revenue. The loads are there, as the trains are running at 100%. It was asked to drive trains to ensure a better offer and to guarantee social distancing. The trains are all there, all the loads too, but the revenues are no longer there. It will be a real challenge. I plead for further investment. It is an accident in history, which is painful and very hard, and which we will all bear for years. But we can't do anything else.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u42	Minister, thank you for these very dense elements of the answer. My question was actually introduced before the crisis of coronavirus, like many other questions from colleagues. However, I must say that investment in the rail sector must not be undermined by the crisis caused by the coronavirus, and the accessibility of the service for users and commuters even less. We agree, of course, on the question of the investments necessary for the performance of our public rail service. But its accessibility must not be excluded from the debate. We'll be back later. The increase in student campus subscriptions was also planned before the crisis of the coronavirus. We must not deny our responsibility to the SNCB and to our fellow citizens, and we must ensure that the SNCB is accessible to as many people as possible on a tariff basis. The major disability project must continue to be an example.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u43	Mr Minister, you have probably been asked on both sides by the Luxembourg Members on this question of the increase in the price of the Campus card for students who take the train to join their kot. I would like to express to you the great disappointment of the young people in southern Luxembourg who have seen the price of their Campus card, their SNCB ticket to their higher education institution, increase by 30% in recent days. For example, the Virton-Liège route was 18.30 euros for 10 trips. It is now 23.30 euros. Studying, when you live more than 100 kilometres from your school, needs to be supported by the public authorities. Being able to go to school is a matter of basic right to mobility, and your policy unfortunately seems to forget it. This is all the more aberrant as the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg has, since 1 March 2020, made its public transport free of charge. This means, for students in the south of Luxembourg, that they see their card increase while a few kilometres away other students go to university with free transport! Even if your skills obviously stop at the Belgian border, it goes without saying that the timing was rather wrong and that we are, in Belgium, well behind on the issues of mobility and tariff access. Minister, what do you think of this new increase in the price of the Campus card? Do you not see this as an unfair measure against students in southern Luxembourg? While today we need to fight global warming more than ever and to promote the use of public transport, do you not find this once again a clumsy and harmful measure, which runs counter to sustainable development in Belgium? This increase in the price of the Campus card will obviously not encourage the use of public transport by Luxembourg students. What measures will you therefore put in place to promote this use?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u44	Dear lady, the price for a single trip with a Campus "Student Multi" card is 2,32 euros for 150 kilometers. This price is barely higher than that of a metro ticket in Brussels or a TEC or De Lijn bus ticket to travel a kilometer! By way of comparison, where a student who lives in Arlon and studies in Louvain-la-Neuve was paying with the Campus Card 1.83 euros, he now pays 2.32 euros for the same trip. This is an increase of €0.49 per journey. This is an increase whose impact can be described as relatively small and limited. Travelling by train at this rate is indeed extremely democratic for a student, knowing that this rate is 56 to 89% cheaper for this trip than products such as the Go Pass, the Go Pass 1, the Rail Pass or the standard ticket. I do not think that there are other modes of transport that are so advantageous. It should be noted that SNCB's pricing system does not penalise long distances. On the contrary, the cost per kilometre is decreasing. We will give you a table which has been communicated to us by SNCB Furthermore, the increase from 18.20 to 23.20 has always been made clear in the submission of the new tariff schedule to the Board of Directors of SNCB, which approved it. The members of the PS, cdH and other political families' board of directors approved. The SNCB has aligned the price of the Campus card with that of all the kilometric products that are capped at 150 kilometers: the student ticket, the weekend ticket, the Half-Time, the subscription, the school subscription, the Student Multi Campus. Group tickets, which are capped at €5.30, are the only exception, not to compete with Youth Multi prices and to motivate young people – including Scouts – to take a group ticket which has the advantage of being able to provide an ad hoc reception – since by reservation – and the ticket to Charleroi Airport, which includes a TEC surcharge of €6 and which is capped at 106 kilometres because, at this kilometric ceiling, the price is nothing higher than the maximum price of the student ticket. The previous kilometric ceiling was prior to 2006, when the Campus card was a much more expensive product and capped at the price of Go Pass 10. Since 2006, this ceiling is no longer relevant. In addition, this tariff alignment fully meets SNCB's desire to simplify its price range and seems to be more consistent with the logic of its tariff range. In addition, the most expensive project that was implemented in the 2017 transport plan was in the province of Luxembourg! We can see things on one side, but we must also admit that we are making a lot of investments there. I recall the implementation of the Sunday evening student train, with the aim of adding it on Friday. You have to be on the right side! There are investments, but at some point people still have to participate moderately. Adding €0.49 at the cost of a 150-kilometre journey is moderate. SNCB's desire is to simplify its tariff offer because today there are almost twenty different tariffs. Things need to be simplified and we are trying to match the price reality with the reality of the needs of people who move.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u45	Mr Minister, the investments made in the past in the province of Luxembourg are obviously to be applauded. However, the price increase on the Campus card for no objective reason for the students, it seems inappropriate to me. Moreover, as I said, the agenda is special here in the south of the country since the Grand-Ducal transports right next door were free of charge. However, if you consider that the rate increase is small or to be put in perspective with the kilometres travelled, I would reply that almost all the trips taken by the students to their kot are on their own more than 150 kilometres. Since one comes from a rural territory, farther away from the major student cities, they are long-distance journeys. Your policy of increasing long-distance fares will always disadvantage students coming from the south of the province of Luxembourg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u46	Madam President, Minister, in November last year some 30 people started a two-year training course as an air traffic controller. Sixteen of them would work in skeyes as a civilian air traffic controller. In order to pass the first basic module, they had to pass 75 % on their oral exam. At the time of the re-launch, 65% was sufficient. Six of them didn't reach that threshold, which basically made their training premature, but shortly after, skeyes announced that the exam was invalid and that all candidates were given a new chance. Only one candidate failed. The Guild of Air Traffic Managers then filed a complaint against the board of skeyes. The Guild accuses the board of favoritism, since the son of Mrs Peggy Devestel, top lady of skeyes, would have been one of the candidates who got a second chance. I have a few questions on this, Minister. Is it true that you or your cabinet have received a complaint from the Guild of Air traffic controllers? If so, when exactly was that and how far is that investigation going? Can you explain why the oral exam that was taken after the first basic module was taken a second time? Was that the same exam with the same questions? How much time was there between the two exams? Who is ultimately responsible for taking exams inside skeyes? Is that the HR manager? How many different HR managers have skeyes had in the last five years? Have you received similar complaints in connection with skeyes in the past? Are there any legal proceedings currently under way by skeyes employees against the management? If so, what are they related to?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u47	Mrs Vindevoghel, I can confirm that we have received a complaint from the Chairman of the Guild of Air Traffic Controllers regarding a certain selection of new traffic controllers at skeyes. The complaint was delivered to the competent department and the investigation is ongoing. I've asked you to complete the investigation quickly. It is only natural that the basic principles are respected, including the presumption of innocence and discretion about the investigation. So I will not comment further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u48	Minister, you have not answered the other questions. I also asked if there were any other complaints and I asked about other situations in the company. You didn't answer my question about the examination procedure either. You only responded to the complaint. It is good to hear that the investigation continues, as that question was also asked to us. However, you have not answered the other questions, including those concerning other complaints and the conduct of the examination procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u49	Mr. Secretary, would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u50	We only received one complaint. I haven't heard of anything else.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u51	Minister, we have already discussed this line in this committee. Then it was about electrification and the works that are going on there. My first observation is that we are now being informed that the Corona crisis has delayed the completion of the works. Okay, I can still understand that. However, it is suddenly a question of postponing a six-month period, while the work, if I may put it right, has only been held up for two months. So I wonder what the delay is suddenly six months. Was there any delay in the file yet? What is the status of electrification works? My second question is a very technical one. The works are now in full swing. At a previous committee meeting, we talked about doubling the railways on both line 15 and line 19. If this doubling of the railways is ever to happen, is it necessary to adapt to all the infrastructure that is now being installed? That's not entirely clear to me. My third question relates to what you said to me at one of the previous committee meetings. You said that linked to these work lanes were requested for a direct connection from Neerpelt to Brussels. The works are now delayed. Does this also apply to applying for those lanes and, therefore, to the future timetable on those lines?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u52	Mr Verduyckt, following on from my Kempian colleague Mr Verduyckt, I would like to ask you a question about electrification of diesel lines. In that respect, my province, East Flanders, continues to excel. We are with Ghent-Oudenaarde-Ronse, Ghent-Zottegem-Geraardsbergen, Ghent-Eeklo, and Aalst-Burst champion in terms of the number of diesel lines. In 2020, it seems to us to be a bit dated. In particular, parts of those routes are included in the railway strategy to electrify. So far, however, there has been no sign of this. So my question is: is that still planned? If so, for when? Is that electrification canceled? Delayed? What can we expect in East Flanders in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u53	Minister, the COOVID-19 construction measures lasted a maximum of two months. By the way, it has never been compulsory to stop construction. The construction sector has been allowed to continue its work, albeit with respect for the distance rules. For the repercussions of these rules on timing everyone should understand. However, two months of delay seems to me to be a great deal. Moreover, we have no explanation for the finding that two months should be postponed to six months. Minister, that is, I fear, not without consequences. Firstly, there is a European subsidy on the project, provided that it is finalised by December 2020. It was a grant of EUR 11 million. Secondly, the longer it takes, the longer it goes on the route, of course, both electric trains and diesel trains, although the electric trains depart from Mol. This also means an additional operating cost of about EUR 10 million per year. Mr Minister, my question is as follows. Can the limited delay under COVID-19, which I believe can be a maximum of two months, not be collected in the remaining seven months, so that we do not miss out on the subsidy and can reduce operating costs from the date of recruitment of December 2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u54	Madam President, Minister, you know as well as my good colleague, Mr Verherstraeten, that we have constantly harassed you with the project during the previous parliamentary term. After all, it is very close to our hearts, not only our two but also another colleague from Limburg. Two months delay leads to a six-month delay, which is remarkable. Mr Verherstraeten already outlined the importance of the deadline in the context of the European subsidy. That is why I have the following specific questions: I will just list them. Why is the deadline postponed by six months? Is this delay associated with additional costs? The questions are of course similar. Will the delay be accompanied by additional inconveniences, including for the traveller? Finally, what are the consequences of the postponement for the introduction of SNCB's new transport plan, which will normally be introduced in December 2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u55	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, this is a project that is very close to our hearts, to our hearts, to our hearts, to Kempenaars and Limburgers. The project is also important for the Kempen. It concerns one of the three projects for the Kempen in the recently approved transport plan. I too have a number of questions about the delay due to the corona crisis. Firstly, what is the impact of the delay in electrification works on line 19 on the transport plan 2020-2023? When will the P-train link Mol-Brussels be extended until the station Neerpelt? Secondly, in the new transport plan, changes will always be made in December of 2020, 2021 and 2022. If the works can be completed in June, as it now looks like, is it waiting until December 2021 to get additional services? Or can we do that before December 2021? Thirdly, the works are financed through European funds. Is the delay affecting funding? Fourthly, on railway 15 towards Hasselt the electrification works were also interrupted for some time. However, the project would not have been delayed, as it would not have been completed until the end of 2022. Is that timing gonna stay on? Have the works been resumed in the meantime?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u56	Colleagues, the yard was shut down because of the corona crisis. The planning was already very strict, including weekend work. Replaning and restarting revealed that this year's delay could no longer be overtaken. The works will be completed in February or March 2021. However, there is still a need to take account of a new type approval. The adaptation of the transport plan can then take place in June 2021. The delay has to do with the following elements. There are two periods per year for adaptation to train services, in June and December. The placing in service was scheduled for December 2020. By shutting down the yards as a result of COOVID-19, December 2020 will not be reached and a placing in service will not be possible until a further change in the train service in June 2021. Moreover, the delay due to COVID-19 is more than two months, as it fell into a period where additional work facilities, in particular weekends with a total line break, were planned. Those simple re-plannings in the autumn proved not possible given other works on the network. Infrabel lets me know that the rough construction is largely finished, but that the cables still have to be stretched over about half of the route. The delay shall not entail any specific additional costs. However, this remains to be confirmed and will also depend on whether the corona crisis will continue in the coming months. As far as European subsidies are concerned, this will have to be negotiated with the European administration. In her speech to the European Parliament's TRAN Committee on 6 May 2020, Commissioner Valean stated that the Connecting Europe Facility will play a key role and that the Commission is ready for a rapid allocation of all remaining funds for the current period. She also stated that flexibility will be shown for ongoing projects and that she does not want to see any project disadvantaged due to delays due to the pandemic. We therefore hope that Europe will have the necessary flexibility to grant subsidies after the impact of the corona crisis has been delayed. We're awaiting confirmation. For line 15, the works have resumed and the planned timing will continue to apply. Both on railway line 19, where there is a double track between Balen Workshop and Neerpelt through funding in the strategic multi-annual investment plan, and on railway line 15 a second track was already taken into account during the overhead studies. The overhead poles were implanted in such a way that they are compatible with a later second track. In addition, no investment was made in 2020 for electrification works on line 58 Gent-Eeklo-Maldegem, line 86 Gent-Oudenaarde-Ronse, line 122 Gent-Zottegem-Geraardsbergen and line 204 Gent-Zelzate. This will have to be examined in the context of the preparation of a new Infrabel multi-annual investment plan after 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u57	I thank the Minister for his answer. I understand that the reason lies in a combination of the delays in work and the fixed introduction dates of new transport arrangements. Communicate clearly about this; the people in the region are entitled to it. There is rightly a great deal of attention here today for those railway lines. They may be far from Brussels, but that does not mean that there should be no attention. I'm very pleased with your answers. I am also reassured about the second track, which I was somewhat concerned about. It is good that material is provided, because we will certainly need it in the future on that railway line.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Your answer to the Kempian colleagues was a little more extensive. They're also more numerical in number, so I understand that. I understand from your answer that we will continue to use diesel in East Flanders, as unfortunately it is called, even though I would like to give our colleagues from Hamant and surroundings their overhead line more than heartily. I find it regrettable and deeply regretful. After all, also from the Flemish Region, the question was asked several times to give the necessary attention to the regional lines, perhaps far from Brussels, as Mr Verduyckt says, to make them up-to-date. It's already up to 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u59	Minister, you say that the works will be completed in February or March and that some time will be needed for the accreditation, so that the timetable can only be implemented in June 2021. I would remind you, however, that when it was promised that the works would be completed by the end of 2020, you or your predecessors made agreements to that effect with SNCB, which included the homologation. Indeed, the prospect was that the new electric trains would then be bulwark. Since it takes two months, we can also make up for lost time. Mr Verduyckt, unlike you, I am not happy with the answer. I can believe that the negotiations at the European Commission will not lose the subsidy, but the annual operating loss suffered by the delays throughout the investment process of electrification is about the same as the subsidy. That's not nothing. Minister, I have listened to you very carefully. If you point out that time cannot be overtaken by other works on the net, what is the priority? The priority must be where the most people win back, and that would be with that project. I can only regret that and hope that the clock can still be reversed. In this sense, I urge you, Minister, to do something about it. Minister, you can see the fact that we need to have six months more patience with wiedergutmachen. If electric trains are used there, you can use M5 devices or M6 devices instead of using outdated devices. So I'm not asking for M7 devices. The following has already been discussed by SNCB. You can also delete a number of stops close to Brussels, where there are enough trains, so there are fewer stops and so the trains could be more punctual. So I do insist on catching up or doing something extra.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u60	Madam President, Minister, you have already understood that we will continue to follow up on the dossier. That is why it is important to check whether it is still possible to obtain that accreditation in good time, so that we can get to work in the promised period. Mr Verherstraeten has already mentioned the cost of operating, but I would also like to talk about the comfort of travellers. We have been waiting a long time for this, it would be nice if there were anything else possible. I am also pleased to hear from you that the European Commissioner wants to be generous and flexible in order not to jeopardise this European subsidy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u61	Madam President, Minister, I have just said that this is really an important project for the Kempian travellers. I am glad to hear that they will not have to wait until the end of 2021. However, I would also like to ask whether it is not possible to see whether it can be done a bit faster and that this can be changed a little earlier than June 2021. I would also urge that new equipment and additional capacity be provided for these lines as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u62	Minister, this question dates back almost three months ago. I was asking you about the presence of asbestos in 1,152 cars that the SNCB is currently selling. I would have liked to have information on health risks for staff and travellers. Has SNCB found a buyer for these cars?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u63	Mr Minister, at the beginning of this month, the cancerous substance chromium VI was released in the workshop of SNCB in Gentbrugge at the sanding of old trains. What procedures are being followed by SNCB in the handling of old trains? How does the dismantling take place? What's the procedure for sanding? What security measures are envisaged to prevent the recurrence of such phenomena in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as explained in my answer to Ms Hanus' oral question No 55000716C at the Committee on 23 October 2019, SNCB is carrying out a preventive monitoring programme concerning the presence of asbestos on board rolling stock. Preventive checks on the possible presence of fibres in the air are carried out. So far, the reports of the analyses performed have not shown the presence of released fibres. With regard to the safety of its staff working in the workshop on these trains, when it comes to hazardous work, all the necessary protective measures are taken: masks and specialized clothing, use of vacuum cleaners with absolute filters that ensure safe work and avoid dispersal. Train equipment is still in service from before 1990. When train sets are end-of-life, they are sold. Depending on the volume of sales, such sales are made through publication at national or European level. In the case of sales, a possible presence of chromium VI in paints with which the train sets are painted is formally communicated. To this end, SNCB has an inventory of the chromatic paint components. There is no prohibition on the sale of train sets containing chromium VI in the paint. SNCB shall not dispose of that paint prior to sale. The sanding of paint layers of train sets during overhaul and/or modernisation of rolling stock in the central workshops takes place in specially equipped compartmented areas equipped with both fixed and mobile extraction systems. Access to that zone is via a sas where clothes are changed. In addition, workers wear personal protective equipment, including breathing masks with blown air. Both installations and personal protective equipment shall be maintained and cleaned in good time. All employees working in such zones are medically monitored for exposure to heavy metals, including chromium VI, as provided for by law. There was and is being invested in training and refresher training in order to use the installations and personal protective equipment correctly. Checks shall be carried out on the correct use of installations and personal protective equipment. The social consultative bodies and the committee for prevention and protection at work shall communicate on this matter. In October 2016 and February 2017, the FPS Monitoring Wellness at Work visited the central workshop of Mechelen to review and evaluate the measures and safety measures taken to protect against possible exposure to chromium VI. An oral evaluation indicated that the current measures and security arrangements were sufficient and that no additional actions were requested. In the case of traction workshops responsible for the strict maintenance of rolling stock, a general prohibition shall apply to sanding on old paint layers if the workshop is not equipped to carry out those operations in a compartmentalised zone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u65	Minister, thank you for your specific answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u66	Thank you for explaining the situation, Minister. You refer to the detailed procedures that have been in place for several years. However, I note that these procedures are not conclusive enough to prevent such incidents, as witnessed earlier this month. So let this be a reason for SNCB to carry out a thorough review of the procedures, in consultation with the occupational protection and prevention committees, because of course it cannot be the intention for our employees to fear their safety and health through exposure to toxic substances on the workplace.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u67	Madam President, Minister, at the end of 2020, the Transportation Plan 2020-2023 will be addressed. This plan aims to reorganise the whole rail policy by adding new services or increasing the hourly amplitude. Since the province of Luxembourg is largely dependent on rail infrastructure, it is essential to pay particular attention to it. For more than a year already, the connection at Marloie station, between the trains IC of line 162 Arlon-Namur with the trains L of line 43 Marloie-Liège, is unfortunately inefficient and incoherent. This correspondence is vital. Above all, it avoids overloading the 162 line, by redirecting all those wishing to travel directly to Liège and its surroundings, without going through Namur. This is particularly the case for Luxembourg students travelling to the many high schools in the city of Liège or to their universities. Guaranteeing this correspondence is first and foremost a guarantee of a faster journey for everyone. In 2016, when the correspondence was still organized in a coherent manner, an Arlon-Liège journey lasted 2h14. Today, apart from the peak hour trains that occasionally allow the journey to take place at 2:39 a.m., the average travel time is 2:59 a.m. on weekdays and 2:43 a.m. on weekends, which is a waste of 30 to 45 minutes per trip. The same demonstration for an inverse journey can be done with a travel time ranging from 2 h 40 to 3 h varying between the week and the weekend. It is worrying to note that the correspondence always exceeds 10 minutes, with very often waiting times of more than 30 minutes. Minister, is it on the agenda to re-establish this correspondence in a coherent and effective manner? Restoring it would be a boost of attractiveness for this line 43 but also a relief for line 162, which is, as you know, overloaded in normal time and also in full renovation. Also, according to the presentation made at the roadshow of the province of Luxembourg in 2019 to present the transport plan 2020-2023, there was a question of running a train every hour on line 43 during the weekends. What about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u68	Minister, the 2020-2023 transport plan has already had a lot of groundwork. It is still unclear to me what steps need to be taken to reach that transport plan. The first design was presented in spring 2019 at a number of road shows across all provinces. I remember it well. It was just after the election. Local authorities were able to give feedback to SNCB. After that, however, the procedure gets a little weird. Already in December we see the communication of the MBS on decisions in the new transport plan: the direct train Haacht-Brussels does not return, the city of Bruges gets its wish with a train every hour between Bruges and Zeebrugge on weekends, and Beernem does not get half an hour service to Ghent and Bruges. We were able to read these messages in the press. The government approved the plan according to a press release on 11 April. It was announced that there are 25 new projects. Which ones are, everyone's guessing. I asked this committee to hold an exchange of views with SNCB and Infrabel on this transport plan. We heard yesterday that this was indeed planned now, but that the plan is not yet final and that a road show will be scheduled in October - we received an invitation to do so - where local authorities will be able to return input. Once again, however, we have already read a number of decisions in the newspapers: between the station Noorderkempen and Antwerpen-Central there will now be a train every half hour, the line Brussels-Mol is extended to Neerpelt and so on. Minister, what are these 25 new projects you announced? Can you give a timeline of how the transport plan should normally be drawn up, consulted and approved? Was the whole procedure right here followed? How do you explain the premature communication in the press about a non-approved transport plan? Why do passengers on one line already receive news and do passengers have to wait from other lines until October? My most important question, what room is there for adjustments after the road show in October, if we know that SNCB must have already requested the lanes at Infrabel?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u69	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the train supply from the Beernem station. This station is after Bruges and Blankenberge the largest station in the Bruges region. In the region there has long been a demand to increase the train supply from the Beernem station. A letter was sent to SNCB in January. There has been an answer that was not very concrete. The only reference was made to the road shows on the new transport plan approved by the federal government. These road shows were cancelled due to the corona crisis, but would still continue in the autumn. In addition, it appears that the four P-trains between Beernem and Brussels are still not driving, while there is an increasing demand for connections with the capital, in view of the renewed economic activity. My questions are as follows, Minister. Does the new transport plan provide for a larger train supply from the Beernem station? If so, what new connections are coming? If not, why not? Is there any indication of the timing of the recovery of the entire train supply, including all P-trains? Specifically for the Beernem station: when will the P-trains Beernem-Brussels be driving again?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u70	Minister, I will always talk about the same subject. On May 8, the stakeholders, including the local authorities of the country, received an email from SNCB announcing the postponement of the provincial road shows in October due to the pandemic. These were intended to present to the municipalities specific projects and choices concerning the transport plan. If this formal postponement is obviously understandable, it is not normal for me that the stakeholders should not have information on the changes made by this plan until October. Several municipalities are committed to creating a coherent and organised mobility offer across their territory, working with De Lijn, STIB, OTW (Wallonia transport operator). They ensure the best coordination of the different means of transport, sometimes even with a view to strong integration into the image of the connecting nodes. This requires a perfect level of information, which is not the case today. Requests for information from several municipalities remain unanswered to date. This situation needs to be rectified as soon as possible and the SNCB must commit itself even more in the future than today with a view to concertation around its transport plans. Minister, is SNCB planning to communicate the concrete information of the 2020-2023 transport plan to the entities concerned prior to the road shows? If so, how can the municipalities ensure that they have all the information about them as soon as possible? Have the regional transport companies been consulted or informed of the measures related to the transport plan 2020-2023? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u71	Madam President, the Transport Plan 12/2020-2023 was approved by the SNCB Management Board at the end of December 2019. Recently, on 11 April 2020, the Council of Ministers also approved the plan. The plan is based on a phased extension of the train supply over a period of three years, according to which Infrabel can complete a number of infrastructure works and new rolling stock will be available with the delivery of new M7 double-deck vehicles. However, these two building blocks will be impacted by the COOVID-19 pandemic. During the June-July 2019 road show, it was announced that a second series of road shows would take place in the month of May 2020, on which the transport plan 12/2020-2023 would be presented in detail and on the specific projects and the trade-offs made. Unfortunately, in view of the current crisis, SNCB had to abolish road shows in May 2020. If circumstances permit, SNCB will organise those meetings in each province during the months of September-October 2020 in order to provide further concrete explanations. SNCB and Infrabel will also present the transport plan 2020-2023 to this Commission on 24 June at 10:15 a.m., I am told. This is a novelty since SNCB and Infrabel are the only public transport companies to consult – it seems to me – the local authorities to draw up a transport plan and present it. The other companies of this kind do not carry out this exercise of proximity, particularly to the mayors. With regard to the questions on the Marloie station, which I am particularly familiar with, the SNCB informs me that it is well aware of the problem of correspondence at Marloie station both to Brussels and to Liège and of the impact that this has on the Rochefort-Jemelle-Virton axis. We have already discussed this issue in this committee on 27 November. Unfortunately, the adaptation of the timetables at Marloie station is dependent on the single-track services set up because of the work organized by Infrabel. According to the modernisation work planned by Infrabel in 2020 and in 2027, SNCB cannot ensure that its timetables on the Liège-Marloie relationship to Rochefort-Jemelle are adjusted because the area affected by the modernisation is between Ciney and Neufchâteau. As I have already indicated, better correspondence will be restored in the future. I don't think we'll have to wait until 2027 to do that. In any event, better correspondence than today should be restored so as to return almost to what was known before the last change. Furthermore, SNCB states that currently, passengers on the Liège-Marloie line have a connection with the omnibus running between Marloie and Libramont in less than ten minutes and that, in terms of sales, few travellers take this route. This obviously concerns travellers who descend between Rochefort-Jemelle and Libramont. Then I come to the question about the train offer in Beernem. In the period before 4 May, the average occupancy was around 10%. SNCB therefore carried around 90,000 passengers instead of the usual 900,000. Since 4 May, SNCB has seen a limited increase in the number of passengers. Thanks to the maximum train supply and the maximum train composition, social distancing can be respected without any problem. When the occupation of trains increases to this extent and the rules on social distancing ask, SNCB will review the deployment of the P-train.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u72	Minister, your answer to this question is that of the status quo. If I can hear the practice of works which delay projects and which extend deadlines until 2027, I note that the answer you give does not appease the concerns of students who imagine returning to school next September via the railway to Liège. The return I'm going to have to give them is not positive and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u73	Minister, I am pleased that on 24 June we will have an exchange of views with SNCB and Infrabel on the transport plan. However, I believe that we should also have the courage to discuss the way in which such a plan is drawn up. This was partly addressed in your reply. First, the Governing Board approved it and then the Council of Ministers approved it. I have not received an answer to the question as to why certain reports do appear in the press and others do not. I don't think that's normal. For example, I do not think it is normal for SNCB to communicate when it is convenient and for certain passengers to be left in the dark about the future of their railway line. I am therefore pleased that Parliament will soon finally have access to these plans. I have reviewed a number of transport plans, not just those of 2020 and 2023, and what I am missing is the long-term vision of our rail company. I see a lot of railway companies abroad with a clear vision, companies that know where they are going. Here I see SNCB abolishing a line, setting up another line and then deleting one. In this way we will have an unclear rail network where it is very difficult to make a smooth transition. That really is an example of Belgian koterij. We must make difficult decisions and have the courage to think about the future of our rail network. We must be able to deal with this in a progressive way so that people choose the train because it is the easiest solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u74	Minister, I would like to hear more about the new transport plan on 24 June. I had asked if the new plan would provide additional train supply from the Beernem station, apart from those P-trains. Will additional offers be made from the Beernem station in the future? Is there anything you can say about that or not? You say that SNCB is the only transport company that consults local authorities when drawing up new plans. That is not correct because yesterday we discussed in the city council of Ghent the preparation of a new public transport plan for the transport region of Ghent. This is also submitted to the municipal councils. Furthermore, STIB has been drawn from neighborhood to neighborhood for two years before rolling out a new bus plan. However, I very much welcome the fact that SNCB is consulting local authorities, and I particularly hope that in the autumn, if the road show can continue, further comments can be made which may lead to adjustments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u75	Minister, thank you for your answer. I'm joining Mr. Vandenbroucke. It is a good thing that SNCB organises a consultation. It is indeed not the only one, but in view of the purpose of its mission, it would be inconceivable that it would not coordinate its plans with the field and local authorities to assess the request. That really seems essential to me. I also believe that the consultation mechanism could be further improved and strengthened, in particular through better consultation between travellers or even the inhabitants, in order to detect new offers which could be put on the rails. Here, the mechanism to which we are entitled has the merit of existence, but it is, in my view, perfectable. However, I find that it is beginning to lose its interest in the sense that on 24 June the information contained in the transport plan will be obtained and presented in October to the municipalities which, at that time, have already had the information via other channels. I hope that this second session of road shows will be a space for debate and discussion where certain amendments can be heard and integrated. Nevertheless, I really advocate that the various stakeholders and local authorities can be officially informed by SNCB as early as June about the elements affecting them in the transport plan, so that everyone is on an equal footing. As Mrs Buyst says, it is not fair for some to have information and not others. I think that, now and to make it easier for everyone, we must do this work of communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u76	I would like to clarify. First, it was this government that was the first to mandate SNCB to make road shows in the provinces in order to establish its new plan. It never happened before. It was we who imposed this. Second, regional transport companies participate ex officio in road shows in the provinces. The evidence that we want to associate them is that regionally-designated directors have been brought into the Boards of Directors of SNCB. I have asked myself that the federal government be able to appoint SNCB experts on the boards of directors of TEC, De Lijn and STIB. We've had an end to not receiving! We were told: "No, we don't want you!" Yet, in the other direction, we did. I still don't understand. It may be necessary for everyone in our respective political formations to campaign in this direction. This would make it possible to avoid making mistakes in the area of regional transport. I apologise: when regional transport companies put fast buses parallel to the railways, it is a suicide in the medium term either of the railway line or of the bus line. I keep saying it, but it's imperceptible and inaudible. In addition, users were consulted. The procedure for drawing up a new transport plan provides for consultation with the user committees. They are being asked for their opinion, and their opinion is being taken into account, whether it is about a tariff increase that we discussed earlier, on which they agreed, or about the transport plan. Finally, you still need to know that there are a lot of requests. That's normal. Local authorities are translating requests. There is a place where we accepted a request, during the previous transportation plan. Result: two extra travellers per day in three years! There is also a responsibility. To test applications, see if they are relevant, the SNCB judges on the basis of six criteria, which will be presented to you by its representatives. This must be seen in a comprehensive way, with additional offers in urban areas and additional offers in rural areas. For example, when the 72 trains were added in and around Brussels in three years, there was a 42% increase in the number of passengers. It was estimated that there would be an increase of 20%. There are 42% at the end of 2019. On the other hand, there are places where the number of trains has doubled for 7 to 8% of the increase in the number of passengers. Not only is there the offer, but the consequence of the new offer must be analysed after three or four years, to see why in some places it worked better than expected, and in other places it worked less well than expected. I'm really paying attention to that. It was by sticking as much as possible to the requests, not only relayed, but perceived, on the basis of the six criteria, that SNCB made its previous transport plan and we obtained the increases in the number of passengers. Of course, there were the climate marches at the end of 2018 and in 2019. But already in 2017 and 2018, there was an increase of around 4% in the number of travellers. I believe in this consultation, in these contacts with the field. Demand must be objective, because sometimes everyone comes with demands that are more emotional than rational. And then it has to live, it has to work, and it has to be corrected, in both directions, if it has to be corrected. You'll have plenty of time to ask the question. Of course, the VOCID-19 prevented SNCB from going to the field, but they will do so as they did in 2016 and 2017. I wanted to add that regarding the procedure, rather than the substance of the questions you asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u77	Minister, I would like to pay tribute to the fact that you have managed to persuade SNCB to do road shows and consult with local authorities. I think that is very good and I would like to encourage you to go further in this direction in particular and to bring even more transparency to the procedure. Of course, I understand that not all questions can be answered positively. Indeed, you have a duty to make a rational assessment and to ensure that every euro cent we invest in increasing the supply of trains is able to make the most of it. I can understand that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u78	I would like to endorse Mr Vandenbroucke's comments on road shows. It is indeed a good thing that this is happening. Personally, I do have a different view of the chicken or the egg. I think we should try to make a strong brand of our rail company, as ÖBB is in Austria. In my view, this is a way of ensuring that certain lines are profitable and that there are sufficient passengers. I fully agree that after three or four years we have to look at whether or not a line is profitable. For me, the transport plans as they have been drawn up so far lack the answer to the question of where we want to go. What's our vision of the future? That's missing. I would very much like to discuss this with SNCB and Infrabel at the hearing that we will have in June.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u79	It is a bit strange to take part in the debate from this chair. I hope I'm not breaking any rules with that. Let's move on to the next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u80	I would like to return in time to the year 1926, 94 years ago. At that time the various railway companies in Belgium were nationalized. I can see Mrs Vindevoghel's eyes sparkling at the floor. This model has indeed been in place for almost a hundred years. The law of 1926 is to date one of the legal cornerstones of the organisation of the railways in Belgium. That law states that SNCB is "equivalent to the State for the purposes of applying the laws on direct or indirect taxation'. This means that no municipality or province has the opportunity to impose taxes or taxes on SNCB. Now, of course, Belgium is in a slightly different institutional context, certainly looking ahead to the coming years. We are in favour of the liberalisation of passenger transport, whether we like it or not. With that prospect, this system is not sustainable. If new railway companies were to join the market, it would not be a question of exempting one railway company from taxes and not another. The bar must then be levelled, otherwise we will be exposed to various legal procedures. There are simply two slopes. The exemption can be extended to new, future, potential players or we will withdraw the exemption for the operation of SNCB. Minister, do you think that this legislation and its compliance will be sustainable in the coming years? What scenario do you prefer to organise a level playing field in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u81	In fact, the provision of the Law of 23 July 1926 on SNCB provides for the tax exemption for SNCB, especially in respect of the municipalities and provinces. SNCB shall be treated as the State in the context of a public monopoly entrusted with the performance of a public service. If the Federal Government were to open public service contracts to competition, this provision, like all other similar benefits, would have to be reviewed. If operators other than SNCB were invited to submit tenders for these contracts, this would indeed be necessary in order to ensure equal treatment for all tenderers. The opening-up or non-opening-up of public service contracts to operators other than SNCB is a decision to be taken by the next government in the context of the implementation of the fourth railway package.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u82	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. You confirm that this choice of principle will indeed have to be made and you refer to the next government. I think, however, that we can make a number of basic choices about this in the shorter term. Therefore, not every aspect of this tax obligation or exemption, but there are others in which we can already make a valid assessment of the continuation or abolition of that exemption. Let me give you an example that I know quite well in the meantime, namely the vacancy charges. SNCB's vacant position is exempt from municipal vacancy charges. The result is very well seen in the street view of various cities and municipalities. The figures you gave me show that SNCB owns more than 300 buildings that are empty, of which 116 stations, and this is not even about Infrabel. The policy of rejection is indeed in progress, but it is going very slowly. At the pace of today's events, we will still have unoccupied SNCB buildings within 20 years, which will cause scuffling and visible pollution of the street, and that by a public body. I am therefore convinced that the exemption from local charges is already obsolete and that it should not be abolished when new companies join, but that policies should be able to move faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u83	Mr Minister, in the 2014 coalition agreement, a very good coalition agreement was agreed that, in addition to Brussels, Antwerp, Ghent, Liège and Charleroi would get suburban networks on track. That project was named AnGeLiC. Those cities were indeed given a number of S-lines, or rather, some existing rail connections got that terminology stuck up. Has that name change also led to more frequent use of the lines and has the S offer in this sense, without any additional offer but with another sticker attached, succeeded in its design, namely offering additional alternative and sustainable means of transport? What is the evaluation of the offer so far? Are further yards and extensions of infrastructure or services planned in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u84	Mr Roggeman, the suburban offer means more than a change of name. Like the supply of S-Bahn in Germany and Switzerland, the suburban supply is characterised by an increased frequency in function of demand, by identifiable equipment, e.g. Desiro trains, by tariff zones and integrated products in cooperation with regional transport operators, by their own identity and by clear signalisation. The suburban offer is not an alternative to the existing public transport offer in the regions. Both complement each other to an integrated and quality offer. The suburban supply results in higher growth rates than at national level, especially in cities such as Antwerp and Brussels, where traffic congestion is highest in Belgium. As far as punctuality is concerned, a significant improvement is noted. However, this is not due to a particular offer, but to the intense efforts of SNCB and Infrabel, which have put punctuality as a priority. The further evolution of suburban supply will be reflected in future transport plans in terms of demand and in cooperation with transport regions, with the proposed mobility nodes in Wallonia, with regional transport operators and with the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u85	Thank you for your reply, Minister. We'll follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u86	Minister, for several years there have been problems with escalators in the Lokeren station building. SNCB recently announced, following a recent complaint, that the escalators were currently rejected. All escalators in this station would be replaced by new ones under a framework contract running from 2020 to 2027. Alternatives are currently, allegedly, not available. Firstly, has SNCB developed a priority policy on the maintenance and replacement of escalators? What's that look like? Secondly, what concrete steps has SNCB taken to replace the stairs in Lokeren? Thirdly, are alternative measures now being taken to give disabled or less mobile passengers in Lokeren access to the platforms? Fourthly, is it still intended to renew all platforms and lifts at Lokeren station? What is the state of play in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, accessibility is a priority for SNCB. In order to allow as many passengers as possible to easily reach the platforms, SNCB will increase the number of lifts, from 250 in 2017 to 350 in 2022, and the number of escalators, from 310 in 2017 to 385 in 2022, in its stations. There are about 30 very old escalators scattered all over the country which have been put out of service and have to be replaced. That is also the case in Lokeren. SNCB will, of course, receive comments and questions from its travellers. However, it is a responsibility of all of us that they have the necessary budgets to replace the 40-year-old escalators. In order to adapt the rail infrastructure to the current accessibility standards of the PPE, major work is needed, such as the increase in platforms and the construction of ramps and lifts, which therefore require a lot of study work and investment. It will therefore take a number of years to adapt all installations. There is a window contract for replacing the elevators and escalators. The award was approved by the Governing Council on 20 December 2019. The intention is to replace most of the obsolete machinery over the next eight years. The oldest and least reliable installations are replaced first. The renewal of the lifts and escalators of Lokeren was given the highest priority, given the many problems with them. The goal is that the preparatory work will start in September. As regards the accessibility of people with reduced mobility in general, I would refer you to the answer I gave here in committee on 23 October 2019. 1152 by Mrs Buyst. At Lokeren station, less mobile passengers receive free assistance from the first to the last train when boarding and leaving with reservations up to three hours in advance. During the renewal of escalators and lifts there will be a nuisance for passengers, presumably for a period of four months. Passengers shall be informed in good time and the PPE shall be informed of the alternatives. After completion of the work, the lifts can be used by anyone. At present, the increase in the platform is planned for 2025.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u88	Mr Minister, mobility is a right, even for those who are less mobile. I am pleased to hear that at least there is an improvement in Lokeren from September 2020. It is to be hoped that not only the preparatory work but also the further development can proceed smoothly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u89	Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Spiegeleer's 55004226C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u90	Madam President, Minister, when rail passengers leave the Brussels-South railway station, they do not immediately see an image that can be expected of a capital city. I refer to the untapped areas under the tracks along the Europalaan and Jamarlaan, which attract attention in a negative way. It is an area of 22,000 m2 which has been unused for 40 years. The Brussels Region has already asked several questions about the potential use of rooms for catering, shops and so on. In February 2020, SNCB confirmed that she would indeed be looking for a partner to work with. Mr President, what is the state of affairs with regard to the SNCB search? Are there plans to deal with these areas as part of a project in which SNCB wants to centralise its services on the site of the Zuidstation? We have just discussed the construction of a new headquarters. Perhaps that could be a reason to work with these spaces. Does SNCB intend to re-destine this site into shopping areas or are there practical objections to this? If so, what are the objections? In what alternative way would SNCB possibly wish to respond or not to the question of the Brussels Capital Government?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u91	Madam President, Mr Roggeman, SNCB informs me that it wishes to give a new destination to the so-called quadrangles, of which it owns, a total of 22,000 m2 under the tracks, between the Zuidstation and the Kleine Ring. This project fits into the recovery plan for the Zuidwijk, of which the quadrilaterals are part. The rooms of the quadrangles are, despite many technical difficulties, particularly suitable for new projects, such as the installation of a food hall, bicycle storage, shops, catering shops and other equipment. SNCB is therefore looking for partners from the public and private sectors to consider a global and coherent occupation concept and to start developing new projects in these areas in the short term. In this respect, a request for information will be published by summer 2020. There are regular meetings with the Region and the municipality of Sint-Gillis to ensure an occupation in line with the future orientation plan of construction (RPA) and local needs. The ground development of the quadrilaterals takes this into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u92	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. I understand that SNCB is looking for a new destination for this space. It is actually surprising that such a huge area, at such a special location, can remain unused for decades. Anyway, we remain optimistic, we look to the future. Let us hope that this area can be marketed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u93	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Arens' 55004864C was converted into a written question. Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht 55004870C by Mrs Schlitz will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u94	Minister, we had just had a discussion with Minister Muylle in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs about the question you and her addressed to the European Commission about the cancelled air travel. By means of a ministerial decision, Minister Muylle has developed a system whereby the Belgian consumer can use a voucher. If the voucher is not used or only partially, it can be converted into the amount to be paid after 12 months. You have asked the European Commission, together with Minister Muylle, for authorisation of this system, because it is contrary to European rules that consumers should always have the choice to be reimbursed immediately. There is little information on this in many airlines. TestPurchasing already offered that. For example, if you request a refund from Ryanair, you will immediately receive an email stating that the trip has been cancelled. You can ask for a voucher or you can ask for a refund. I think that's a good example. With Brussels Airlines, however, it is impossible to find a link to the refund on the website. All one can find is information about the voucher. If one finds a document for reimbursement somewhere, it turns out to be a referral back to the voucher system. It is absolutely impossible to claim its rights as a consumer. What is your opinion, Minister? Do you agree with me that a company such as Brussels Airlines, which will soon have huge support from our government, should at least provide correct information on the website? Have you already consulted Brussels Airlines on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u95	Madam President, Minister, Mr Depraetere has already said a great deal, referring to the initiative taken by Ministers Muylle and yourself with regard to the European Commission. The initiative is that the Belgian Government insists on abandoning the compulsory reimbursement of airline tickets if a flight has been or is being cancelled because of the corona crisis. The affected passengers should be able to be compensated by a voucher for a later flight. What is the Belgian Government's position on this matter, Minister? Is it true that the Belgian Government only wants to offer a voucher to compensate the consumer for the cancellation of a flight? Is it true that you want to release the system of reimbursement for that period? Exactly what initiative did you take with Minister Muylle? Do you mean, as we read in the press, by pressing the European Commission for the removal of compulsory reimbursement?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u96	Madam President, Minister, I agree with the honourable Members, so I will not explain my question much more, as my questions are in the same vein. Mr Minister, will people have a choice between a refund or a voucher? What is your position on this matter? Will you impose on the airlines, for example Ryanair, that they should provide for the possibility of reimbursement? What measures will you take if people do not get the choice of either a refund or a voucher?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u97	Madam President, the negotiations for an amendment to the European regulation 261/204 are still ongoing at European level. It would therefore be premature to explain the details of the implementation of any measure being discussed. I refer to the reply from myself and Mrs Muylle at previous meetings. As regards the monitoring of the application of Regulation 261/2004, I asked DGTA services. They confirm to me that the legal obligations have been reminded of Ryanair and that it has been asked to provide passengers with clear and functional means of applying for reimbursement. On its website, you can now find correct information on refunds, even if the proposed deadline is longer than the normal deadline. At its disposal, and more generally for all European airlines, thousands of flights have been cancelled, with more than 100 passengers per flight, leading to hundreds of thousands of refunds to be processed. DGLV has also contacted Brussels Airlines. The company then adapted its communication. In practice, citizens who cannot make peace with an airline's response can always turn to the FPS Mobility, where a specialist who deals with the matter at the e-mail address passer.rights@mobilit.fgov.be. This period is exceptional and does not really lend itself to the introduction of complex legal procedures. The dialogue seems more appropriate to me. It is also necessary to take account of possible legislative developments, as there is a possibility that the European Regulation 261/2004 will be amended shortly. As I have already said, this is still being discussed at European level, without there being any agreement today. On the basis of the powers entrusted to her, Mrs Muylle is taking part in the negotiations in the European Commission. However, we note that many non-coordinated initiatives have emerged in several EU countries. A number of Member States, including Belgium, consider that mere recommendations cannot be sufficient for a sensitive issue such as passenger rights. Where the same aircraft may carry passengers of different nationalities, it is important that any potential temporary adaptation to the European Regulation 261/2004 is regulated in a coherent and harmonised European legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u98	Minister, you say that in the meantime the airlines have been turned on and adapted their websites to provide consumers with all the right information. However, I have looked at the Brussels Airlines website and that is not really the case. It says that reimbursement is possible, but not at this time and that the company should be contacted again later. Of course, that doesn't mean that the consumer is much. It would be better, should there be an effective form on the website, especially for a company that will soon receive a lot of support from your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u99	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You said it was Minister Muylle who is taking part in the European negotiations. I find that strange, because she has just replied to me in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs that you are competent in this matter. You also said that the package with which the European Commission came last week contains only recommendations and that it is therefore not enough for you. These are indeed recommendations and guidelines. I did not receive an answer to my question to Minister Muylle to what extent Belgium will follow the package. I am thinking, for example, of the transferability of vouchers. So I'm left with a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u100	Minister, I fully understand the situation of the airlines. Of course, they are not sitting on a pile of cash to pay back the consumers, but I nevertheless believe that people should have the right to ask for reimbursement at all times. The purchase of a plane ticket often weighs heavily on some family budgets. Some people have saved a year for a holiday and they should be given the choice between a refund or a voucher. I agree with Mr Depraetere's statement. I am an absolute champion of the rescue of Brussels Airlines, but no matter how difficult the situation is, consumers must be properly informed. I do not think it is possible for a consumer looking for a refund to be sent from the cabinet to the wall. In fact, the day before yesterday, people who bought plane tickets for the next few months received an email from the CEO stating the good news that the flights will be restarted and that they can contact the service centre for information, without the contact details being included. That is either unwillingness or amateurism, and I find that unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u101	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation, although I still have questions. I have the impression that we are being sent from the locker to the wall. Consumers are also of the opinion that there is still a great deal of uncertainty and confusion about the dossier. I have also argued with Minister Muylle for clear information. She has given a very comprehensive answer. Nevertheless, it would be useful if a clear FAQ could be published on the website of the FPS Mobility or of the FPS Economy. Consumers are asking a lot of questions. When they inform the airline or travel agents, they are usually sent back and forth. I hope you will take the suggestion with you and give clarity to consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u102	Minister, the principle must remain that consumers have the right to choose. It is true that the situation with Brussels Airlines is not easy, but Ryanair, for example, has made a huge amount of money in recent years. It is therefore the right of every consumer to choose between reimbursement or voucher.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u103	Minister, it is also very important during the corona crisis that we ensure the well-being of our staff and general safety in the stations and on trains. Securail plays an important role in this. At the meeting of the Committee on Mobility on 14 April, you said that during the period of the intertwined corona measures you wanted to keep the agents of Securail in the stations, but some aspects remained under-explored, which I am now happy to repeat. In what way does the corona crisis disrupt the normal task of the agents of Securail? What kind of protective equipment do the employees receive? Is there sick leave at Securail and how much is that? Is Securail also working with technical unemployment and what extent does it take?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u104	Mr Roggeman, during the lockdown phase passengers over 12 years of age will be required to wear a mouth-nose mask or another mouth-nose cover, both at the station and on the platform and on the train. On-the-spot checks shall be carried out by the police forces and by Securail. A report is drawn up by the police on the basis of the regulations on municipal administrative fines, while the agents of Securail rely on the law on the police of the railways. I told you earlier that SNCB only wishes to communicate about absenteeism for the whole of its staff. That is now around 5 % and is quite normal. SNCB acknowledges that in the period before 4 May the absenteeism rate in one category of staff was higher than in the other. Given the nature of the tasks, that seems to me to be only normal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u105	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. I find it strange that SNCB continues to refuse to release figures by professional category even in corona times. I wonder why they refuse to do so, because this only raises more questions. It's like the SNCB has something to hide here. Perhaps you could give a reason for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u106	I have no further comments to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u107	Madam President, Minister, at a previous discussion I had already asked some questions about the maintenance of air conditioning systems and air filters on trains. Proper maintenance is certainly not unimportant in these corona times, so that due to poor maintenance, these filters would not result in the growth of germs, which would be completely counterproductive. During the previous discussion, you indicated that this maintenance is done "according to the maintenance rules," with which I quote you literally. Mr Minister, what are these maintenance rules, what are they? What do they prescribe regarding the frequency of maintenance of cleaning of the components of air conditioning systems in the rolling stock? How many times a year are they supervised? How many of these systems were replaced in the course of last year, whether due to a defect or not? How often is the filter, housing and vaporizer refreshed or replaced? I would have liked to have an overview of that data for the past few years. Does SNCB provide a special budget for the maintenance and cleaning of these air-conditioning systems? Does this supervision and maintenance take place in-house, or does SNCB also call on external service providers to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB informs me that the air distribution systems in its vehicles are designed in accordance with the European standards in force in order to achieve an optimal balance between the energy consumption of the system and the ergonomics, well-being and health of our passengers. In the context of the current COVID-19 pandemic, the Federation of the European Association for Heating, Ventilation and Air-conditioning has already indicated that there is no increased risk of the virus spreading through ventilation and air-conditioning systems. The main risks to the spread of the virus include the exchange via contact areas, small to large quantities of liquids and so on. Specific to air treatment systems, the risk of spreading remains very limited, as air is systematically controlled by filters, heating elements and the like for purification and drying purposes. The monitoring of the air treatment systems, the replacement of the filter elements and the repair of the technical defects will continue to be carried out according to the prescribed rules, guaranteeing the well-being and health of our passengers and staff on board our trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u109	Minister, I am somewhat disappointed in your reply. I have done my best to formulate my questions as specifically as possible, and I am asking this question for the second time. Unfortunately, I have not had an answer to any of my seven specific questions. You're saying there's no increased risk of spreading the virus through those systems. That may be good, but I would have liked to have heard about the maintenance, what it costs, what rules are being applied in it, what budgets are being tied to it. I have not received an answer to any of the questions, and I regret that. That is not a reproach to you, because I understand that you, too, of course, receive the information from SNCB. On the basis of this reply, I can only conclude that SNCB does not make any additional effort with regard to the maintenance of the air-conditioning systems in the rolling stock.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u110	Madam President, Minister, the train service of national interest has already entered into force. I was wondering how that was updated in the meantime. What adjustments have been made since the introduction of the new system? How does it detect any difficulties in the provision of services to particular target groups? How was a solution found for some early or late trains that have temporarily stopped driving? How was that evaluated? This question dates back a few weeks ago and was largely overtaken by current events.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u111	In the period from 23 March to 4 May, SNCB adapted its train service to take account of the national interest. During that period, SNCB has made every effort to safeguard mobility for those who absolutely need to take the train, in full safety and precision, in accordance with the conditions in force regarding public health. Maximum efforts will be made to maintain a robust and stable train supply throughout Belgium. SNCB has contacted all its business-to-business customers, most of whom have a subscription and some are active in the social sector, in order to inform them of the train service of general interest. On this basis, and provided a critical mass of passengers to allow additional trains to run, it was decided to make adjustments and provide for an extension of the evening shift service for those working in shifts in the distribution and health sector. The requests received by that road and by other means were all examined. In fact, for the adjustments she made to the train service, SNCB received a lot of thanks from the passengers. SNCB's train supply has been virtually complete again since 4 May. The preparations for the restart were huge, but we can look back positively on the start-up. NMBS employees and trains were ready all over the country. All necessary protective equipment necessary for the safe execution of the work was provided and distributed. An extensive and intensive cleaning and disinfection programme of the stations, trains and workplaces was also set up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u112	I thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u113	Mr Minister, in the Committee on Mobility of 14 April 2020, you announced that SNCB will cancel the costs of water/gas/electricity for tenants during the closure of the corona measures. This brings me to a few questions. What benefit does the tenants derive from the cancellation of the costs of water/gas/electricity when they cannot carry out their commercial activity and therefore have no or no consumption? How much revenue did SNCB derive from the concessions on its rented premises in recent years? I'd like the figures for the last five years on an annual basis and per province. How many commercial buildings of SNCB are rented? How many spaces in the offer are empty? Please have an overview per province. Is there a breakdown by type of commercial activity? If so, which types are there? Please have an overview per province. Has SNCB already consulted (representatives of) the tenants? What consultations took place with which partners and what were the conclusions? As a competent minister, what is your position on the question of absolving or postponing payment of (a part of) the rent due to tenants of commercial premises in or at our train stations which had to close because of the corona measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u114	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns the assistance to tenants of commercial spaces leased by SNCB. What has been planned to support the 413 traders at the various SNCB stations? Did they request a reduction or suspension of rents during the months of mandatory closure? Have traders not been able to pay their rent? Is SNCB already aware of the cessation of the business of some traders? Is it planned to simply suspend or cancel the payment of rents for periods of mandatory closure?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u115	Madam President, Mrs Schlitz, there are indeed 413 concessions to SNCB. On May 11, 2020, one third of them were still open. Contacts with SNCB are not made by sector but by individual trader. To date, an action, support or rent reduction plan has not been established. It is under discussion with the different types of sectors. We need to identify the stores that remain open, determine the loss of income, etc. At present, no decision has been taken. I would like to make a comment on Mr Roggeman's request. Nearly 20 questions concern coronavirus. To answer this question, I ask the SNCB and just relay what it answers. If you want to have more details and, given the multiplication of the details, nothing prevents you from inviting SNCB to come and explain to you a number of elements. But, at present, SNCB is also in the expectation. The aim is to draw up recovery plans with different assumptions and to define the actions to be taken in terms of large employers. She also wondered when schools would resume and when workers would return to work. It must consider what internal measures should be taken. In this case, you're asking me about business relations. I think that, at the moment, if there are a number of questions that can be answered, there is a whole series that we do not yet know how to answer. It is at the moment of a prospect of exit from the crisis that the SNCB will be able to answer you. This mainly concerns SNCB. Infrabel runs his network. The programme of work was suspended for a period of time. It is important to know that companies were not obliged to stop. The containment did not concern public works companies. They could stay active. But the problem is that their suppliers no longer supplied concrete, while they could continue to work. Infrabel's teams are reprogramming the work. On the other hand, at SNCB, it is much more difficult, because they are in direct contact with customers, not knowing what the evolution and progress will be. I think there are a number of questions that you are certainly going to rest. Madam Chair, wouldn't it be useful at some point to meet with SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u116	That is a good proposal because a number of questions remain open. I already have two questions I would like to discuss with the chairman of the committee, and I will add this question so that we can make an agreement with SNCB. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Roggeman for a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u117	We have now deviated a little, but I think it is indeed a good proposal from the Minister to put a number of questions directly to SNCB and possibly to Infrabel by extension. I would therefore certainly like to support that proposal in a future arrangement of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u118	Minister, thank you for your answer, although I am astonished at its brevity. I think it is wise to question SNCB directly. Nevertheless, you should be able to give impulses and answer me about it. We know that traders suffer from the crisis and containment measures. Moreover, they could not survive at the station, given the decline in passenger traffic. Moreover, we do not know when activities can resume. In short, they will still face difficulties in the long term. I therefore do not understand that we cannot find out more about the aid that can be granted, especially since the last period was the hardest. In France, SNCF and two land partners exempted from the rental payment from 16 March to 30 April the merchants who entered into a lease with them. Such a supportive solution should be pursued. We will therefore ask the questions directly to SNCB. In any case, you could also give him impulses in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u119	I didn't say nothing had been done. Discussions and negotiations are under way. The situation of food traders, who have been able to remain open, is not the same as that of those who have had to close. It's the same as in town. You know the whole debate within the Horeca between cafes and restaurants, while the baker has been able to continue his activity. I would like to give impetus to SNCB. However, is it a self-sustaining public enterprise or not? That's the question! You're asking us to make decisions. SNCB is neither a public service as such nor a public administration; it is an autonomous public undertaking, governed by a management contract. Therefore, I want everything we want, but all decisions are taken on a board of directors, where all political groups are represented – and I know they meet several times to draw up plans. We can't present you with a decision until it's made! I must say that this or that, I repeat, SNCB is the only company in Western Europe – with its Danish counterpart – that operates at 100%. Deutsche Bahn is asking €1.4 billion to restart. Otherwise, this company will dismiss staff. We don't talk about it in Belgium. So try to see the bottle half full too! SNCB works well. She's in contact with a whole series of things. But don't ask today to get all the answers to your questions when we don't know how long this crisis will last! I know she has contacts with the dealers, but I don't know the content of the discussions that are taking place. It is an autonomous public enterprise. This is about trade relations. She will give you a presentation, but she is bound to contractual confidentiality, Mrs Schlitz. It is not a state administration; it is an autonomous public enterprise. There is a need to understand the difference between a state administration and a self-sustaining state enterprise. Everything is settled in a management contract and is autonomous in terms of management. If I ask her, she will not tell me what measures she has taken for the food sector or for hairdressers, for example. I asked questions, but the SCNB is not obliged to answer me. And she's not answering me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u120	Minister, you're talking about the Board of Directors of the SNCB where environmentalists are not represented. We therefore do not necessarily have access to this information. On the other hand, you have given impulses in other files. So we know it's possible. In that case, you don't give it. I hear a negotiation is under way. I thank you for the clarification you provided because it was not clear. We could get figures for businesses that have remained open. However, given the low level of traffic at the stations during the very strict confinement period, I am led to believe that no trader had to make his butter during this period. It is logical that negotiations should take place on a sector-by-sector basis. But I would like to know more about what is meant by "those who have done well". Indeed, I find it difficult to see which sectors are concerned. In any event, we will continue to question you and SNCB on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u121	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Cogolati converted 55005108C into a written question. I would like to propose that the next question, for which a number of speakers have been included, be considered and that all the following questions be postponed until the next time we can question the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u122	Is it true that there is a working group working on how to deal step by step with our post-corona mobility? What measures are on the table? Is there any further thought on how we can better match our public transport in the future? (e.g. 1 fare, 1 ticket?)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u123	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no...................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u124	Madam President, I have had to wait a long time to take the floor. I believe that we should consider introducing a LIFO system where the last questions can be asked first because today we had a lot of outdated questions on the agenda, which could actually not be enough about topicality. This question also dates from almost a month ago because it deals with the plans for the introduction of the virtually normal service from 4 May. I refer to the questions that have been put, but I would like to express my concern in this respect. I am not so much concerned with using public transport too much, as the National Security Council has warned us about. After all, it was almost not recommended to take public transport. My main concern is to take too little public transport and push people to the small cocoon of one's own car. Of course, I have nothing against using cars, but if we send all the people who normally take the train to the car, we will have problems on our road network. I therefore believe that every effort should be made to ensure the safe use of public transport by NNMBS for its trains and to reassure people. I would like an answer to the questions about these efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u125	Mr Minister, my question also dates from a few weeks ago. I was very surprised at the opinion of the National Security Council, which almost literally stated that it was advisable to move with own resources or on foot but also by car. We had to give priority to those who most need public transport. I too am concerned that we are more likely to hunt people to the safe cocoon of their car. About three weeks after the first meeting of the National Security Council, our group submitted a plan with a number of proposals which worked abroad, but we feel that very little has happened to them. SNCB has, after all, fully focused on the use of mouth masks, which is certainly a good measure, while so many other things could and had to be done. We wonder if the expert group has looked into this. I take out a number of them, such as the indication of places to take one and a half metres away, but also the differentiated rates, so that the off-peak hours are less expensive than peak hours, or also the use of more trains. Are those things that have been looked at? That question remains.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u126	Mr Minister, my question goes in the same way. Many questions are already dated, but the substance of the matter is still the same. What will we do about rail traffic and how will we organise it when shuttle traffic resumes in full? The question is not outdated, but is becoming more and more topical. After all, I have seen a number of photos in my mailbox this week with images from the evening pits in Brussels-Zuid. Colleagues, I can assure you they were not beautiful images. From a social distance there was no such thing as a social distance. People were packed and there was no opportunity to keep social distance. Moreover, we are only at the present stage. What will that give if commuting resumes fully? The Netherlands is rolling out pilot projects with prior registration for train use. Seats are covered and selected. Plastic screens are installed in the wagons to give some form to the social distance. SNCF provides hand gel for passengers in rolling stock and will also monitor the number of passengers by train. Deutsche Bahn does the same and also uses intelligent cameras to check if too many passengers leave per wagon. Several Members in the Chamber, including Mrs Buyst, have made their own proposals in this respect. So far, no proposal has been blocked by SNCB. Reference is made to the increased cleaning, which is fine. The obligatory masking is also fine. And there is also a reference to the civic spirit. However, I repeat the question. What will it be like, when commuting resumes and the trains are full again? Then what is the point of being a citizen? Those travelers in the photos that were packed together were fat with their civic spirit. Then what does the civic spirit prescribe? Does she prescribe that he or she leaves the platform or that the travelers return to the station hall at the same time, and then get caught up there? Should the passengers leave the station and take a later train? I have no idea. The same applies, of course, to the resumption of traffic on the trains themselves. We all know the busy routes, such as Ghent-Antwerp and Dendermonde-Brussels. Colleagues, Minister, these are lines that are being used enough and on which trains are being filled in normal conditions and on which people have to stand up in the absence of a seat. I don't see that fuss coming back. We already know, however, that it is a matter of time before this situation resumes. At best we can lift these conditions over the summer, but also in September and October 2020 we will not yet have a thorough solution for the coronavirus and no vaccines will be available. So we have been seeing for months that we are heading towards a pressing problem for which SNCB is currently not providing any solutions. I come to my question. In what way will SNCB comply with the recommendation to maintain the social distance of one and a half metres between passengers at the full resumption of commuting? In what way will it maintain the obligation to respect that social distance, in accordance with Article 4 of the Ministerial Decision of 18 March, for passenger traffic?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u127	Minister, we too are concerned. I would remind you of the overcrowded trains, and especially at the peak moments, we are still very concerned, not just about the mouth masks. The social distancing cannot then be respected. What plan does SNCB have in mind here? What additional action will SNCB take to ensure the safety and health of our citizens? Mr President, with the gradual relaxation of measures, the number of passengers on public transport is also increasing again. In order to ensure that everything is safe, SNCB has again increased the supply of trains and is once again driving the normal service. Assistance for people with reduced mobility has also been restarted so that they can take the train again. In order to ensure the safety of passengers on the train and at the station, mouth masks are mandatory, trains are disinfected more frequently and passengers are asked to comply with social distance rules. For the time being, these measures are sufficient because the pressure on public transport is not yet high.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u128	SNCB has launched a survey to monitor the impact of COVID-19 on movements. What are the results of this survey? How many people were involved? When is this survey going to take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, first I will read my answers and then I will address the supplementary questions. SNCB informs me that the train offer has been almost complete again since 4 May. The preparations for the restart were enormous, but we can look back positively on the start-up. Everywhere in the country, the employees of SNCB and the trains were ready. All protective equipment necessary for the safe execution of the work was delivered and distributed. An extensive and intensive cleaning and disinfection programme was also set up for the stations, trains and so on. It is essential to take care of yourself while respecting others. SNCB has launched a "MoveSafe" action which communicates the various measures taken and the recommendations for its customers to travel safely together. These recommendations are and will be relayed on the various communication channels (site, social networks, announcements and screens in trains and stations) so that people who choose the train for their journeys do so with knowledge and make their arrangements accordingly. In addition, front-line staff are asked to raise awareness of protection measures among clients. During the period before 4 May, the average occupancy rate was about 5%. Since 4 May, SNCB has seen a limited increase in the number of passengers. Thanks to the maximum train supply and the maximum train composition, social distancing can be respected without any problem. When the capacity utilisation rate of the trains increases sharply, SNCB will review the deployment of P-trains. Travellers are also asked to travel outside peak hours whenever possible. In general, mandatory wearing of a mouth mask or alternative is well followed by the majority of travellers. For example, non-travelers using an underpass to travel from one side of the station to another are reminded of the rules. In this phase of debunking, passengers over the age of 12 are obliged to wear a bucco-nasal mask or any alternative to cover the mouth and nose, at the station, on the docks and on the trains. Regular on-the-spot checks will be carried out by the police as well as by Securail. I would nevertheless like to explain to you how this works for the resumption of activities. First, when we went to the national train service, the absenteeism rate in a number of trades was 30%. We have set a halt to rail transport in Belgium at an April date – I don't know if it's April 15 or 20 – as the number of people in the cabin was reduced. The absenteeism rate was close to the rate at which trains could no longer be operated. The same was true for Securail and the train attendants. We have therefore set up the service of trains of national interest. We have been in contact with the GEES, which has ten experts from different sectors. Two experts have been appointed for the mobility aspect. We've been in contact with them. On the basis of the reports of the epidemiologists, they asked us to be able, as soon as possible, to return the train service to 100% throughout the country. They approached not only railway companies, but also companies providing other modes of transport. The Ministers of Mobility met, in the CEM format, with our respective Chefs de Cabinet and two experts. We agreed to resume all transport from 4 May. We decided that ten days before, even before the CNS confirmed it. It took ten days to put in place all internal arrangements within the framework of trade union negotiations for labour protection. Provide masks, provide hydro-alcoholic gel, disinfect all workstations, clean trains before they enter the workshops, clean trains every day instead of every three days, intensify station cleaning, etc. All this was put in place in just ten days. It was agreed that all modes of public transport should resume at 100% by 4 May. You will have observed that only SNCB has resumed 100% since that date. The other three companies experienced internal problems, social movements, etc. The situations were not the same. We have therefore resumed the transport, knowing that the occupancy rate from which social distancing is no longer possible on a train is 35 to 40%. Up to 35% of train occupancy, it is possible to keep the social distance. On the subway, it's 10%. On buses, that's 18%. The train is therefore less exposed than other modes of public transport. But let's take care of the trains. What are the recommendations of the GEES experts who propose measures to the CNS after having had contact with the SNCB and with us, to maintain social distancing? They don't know when the coronavirus epidemic will stop. Some highly listened epidemiologists in France say that the epidemic will go away naturally, slowly, and will not return as before, except perhaps a small peak. Others say that in the fall of 2020, the epidemic may come back as before. In short, we are in a world where eleven million people in Belgium signify eleven million opinions. And among a hundred epidemiologists, opinions will diverge a lot. The GEES, with which we are in constant interaction, says that for the recovery, public transport should only be used for essential journeys, i.e. not to go to the sea, not to go to the Ardennes, not to walk around or to go to trade. That's what he says, but it's not marked on the front of people if they go to work or trade! Secondly, he also said that individual transport should be encouraged. Trains and public transport should only be taken if no alternative mode of transport is available. I know this is happening because we are fighting for a world on the trains, while the experts say that until we have the vaccine and we are not sure that the epidemic is gone, we must take as much as possible the individual transports, that is, the bicycle, or go on foot for short distances, and take the car for longer distances. Thirdly, the experts say that telework must be continued wherever possible, so that workers do not return massively five days out of five to work. Many commuters, particularly those from service companies in Brussels, need to do as much telework as possible. These experts say that you have to do as much telework as you can, and on the other hand, psychologists at work say that it is necessary to re-establish social ties, in order to have the least psychological injury in the long term. Some say, therefore, that there is a need to continue to work a lot telework and others rather than not. We're in the middle of this. Fourth step: to desynchronise the hours of entry of the various employees in large employers. For example, if there are 300 people, some must come at 7:30 a.m., others at 8:00 a.m., others at 8:30 a.m., others at 9:00 a.m. The problem of the railway in Belgium, which is much more marked than in Holland, is the morning peak which is very strong. That is the case with the suggested measures, some of which are beyond our control. SNCB is here to transport people in the best conditions. But it's not up to him to say that we have to desynchronize the entrances, support telework or bring people in on individual transport. This must be the subject of agreements in other forums, such as the Group of Ten. In terms of train traffic, memory, more than 50% of trains have an occupancy rate of less than 4%. I think there are 2 per cent of trains with occupancy rates ranging from 30 to 50 per cent. There, we asked SNCB to add cars or provide double floors for the busiest lines. On the day we see that there is more traffic, we will put P trains back into service. We will not hand them over for occupancy rates of 3 or 4%. This is one of the first areas where the wearing of the mask – or a bucco-nasal protection – has been mandatory because it is not possible everywhere to respect social distance, for example in stairs, escalators or elevators. h 00, others to Other issues remain. Should the first class be maintained? The question of the first class does not arise, as it does not reach its occupancy rate. I also draw your attention, because it is an important debate, to the fact that people are willing to pay to be in the first class and that if there is no more, we are not going. These 3% of users account for 6.5% of SNCB's turnover! It generates potential. We get mail in a variety of ways but a lot of people say that if there is no first class, there will be no train for them. I may not have answered all the questions. As far as the number of PVs is concerned, Securail and the police do so. According to Securail's checks, two weeks ago, 70 per cent of users did not have a ticket to travel, thus 70 per cent were in violation. It's also annoying because if there are 4, 5 or 6 per cent of trips, if there are 70 per cent violations, it means that SNCB's revenues at the moment are almost zero. I think I've been a little long to answer. I probably didn't answer all the questions. Many other issues are likely to come up in the coming weeks. The synthesis is that both Infrabel and SNCB are ready. To date, we have responded to all requests from the EEIG. We're ready to invest. These companies have invested financially in protections for workers. We will do everything it takes to support the company in its recovery when decisions are made for schools, students, workers, etc., according to the rules agreed between the SNCB, Infrabel, the GEES, the CNS and our firm.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u130	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I have a lot of specific questions to which you have not answered, but I will put them in writing so that they do not have to be dealt with orally. All due respect for the efforts made by SNCB, but it would be useful to look openly at a number of slopes, also mentioned by Mr Roggeman, which are used abroad to give people full confidence in public transport. I am thinking, for example, of the possibility of reservation or of indicating the expected traffic on trains. Just the presence of hand gel on a train can already give more confidence to some people, that does not have to bring insurmountable difficulties. On the other hand, we do not know what is coming to us, it is a matter of being well prepared. I'm sure we'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u131	I too would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. Following on from what Mr Vandenbroucke said, perhaps it would be useful to give written preparation to the questioners. As a result, we may automatically receive answers to the specific questions we had tabled. This also saves us the submission of new written questions. Maybe that's how it can be dealt with. Then the heart of the matter, the confidence in public transport. If virologists today say how best to protect themselves, one may have to keep oneself isolated and stay at home in one's own cocoon. One can go very far in that protection. That is perhaps why people are asking not to come together and avoid public transport. If we want to resume social life on the other hand, public transport will still have to play its role and confidence in public transport will have to be restored. I insist "built up" because it's not here right now. I understand that today we are moving towards 20% of the normal occupation. The Minister pointed out that there are virtually no revenue today. There are hardly any checks on tickets, but this aside. So there is some confidence to rebuild. In the last few months, SNCB has made every effort to get back into operation, and a great deal of effort has been made to do so. Nor do I join in the stories or suggestions of colleagues who say that it is not safe enough. A great deal of effort has been made by the staff to get it all right. It is also in line with the recommendations of the experts and the virologists, so I assume that this has been done as well as possible, but it may be by making additional efforts to create confidence. The suggestions made by Mr Vandenbroucke, for example, can certainly play a role in this. I also have a question about the financial consequences of the corona crisis, but it will not be discussed today. However, that is something we still have to deal with. In the Netherlands, for example, it is assumed that the level of 2019 will not be reached again until 2025 in terms of the occupation of public transport. These are rather drastic predictions, which have an important impact on mobility policy, so we will have to discuss them even more in the coming weeks. To be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u132	Minister, I have listened carefully to your story. It is true that you cannot predict the end of the corona crisis, but we can predict that the busiest lines will be busy again in the foreseeable future. You have explained that one can maintain the social distance under a certain capacity utilisation rate. At present, 2 % of trains are at that level. However, social distance is by definition the most difficult to maintain on the busiest lines. Traffic is also concentrated in rush hour. 2 % of trains appear to be low, but of course 2 % of rolling stock represents a much higher percentage of the number of passengers. At a time when we are on different busy broad lines above that percentage under which we can maintain social distance, I would not like to see transport being inappropriate, because at the moment that is the case, despite the very correct efforts made by the many staff who are doing their best to do so. Unlike neighbouring countries, we do not take any additional measures. No hand gel is provided, no prior registration, no monitoring of passenger capacity, no additional protective equipment, etc. What's happening? Several calls are being launched for passengers. Take the train only for essential movements, prefer individual transport, try to work as much as possible, wear a mouth mask. SNCB appeals to the spirit of the citizen and calls on travellers to take the train outside peak hours. My feeling at this stage, and on the basis of all this, is that it is difficult to conclude otherwise than that SNCB places the responsibility for their safety and health on the passengers themselves. This is problematic, not only in substance, not only because it curses emotionally, but also because it curses explicitly with the royal decisions that were made before. The Royal Decree of 23 March provides in Article 4 that public transport must be organised in such a way as to guarantee the rules of social discrimination. If rail traffic becomes more crowded again, SNCB itself will have to give that guarantee and not just pass it on to the passengers themselves. If SNCB continues to limit itself to the measures of cleaning and oral masking which are, moreover, perfectly justified, it will not comply with this royal decision and will violate the safety rules. I'm worried about that. I have contacts with SNCB. I understand your question to ask them directly. If I get the opportunity, I will. I've already proactively contacted a number of those responsible myself. I admit that it is subjective, but at the moment I do not have the impression that SNCB is taking these questions seriously. What I'm observing is a reaction with the tone of We'll see. When the time comes, we'll find a solution. I think the problem is a little too serious. I am genuinely concerned about this. Mr. Secretary, you're a custody minister of SNCB. I would therefore ask you to remind SNCB of its duties and responsibilities, because my fear is that we are heading for a problem which we have been seeing coming for months, but for which we have not been adapted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u133	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I agree with Mr Van den Bergh's request to receive the reply in writing. Minister, I am also concerned about the future approach to rail transport. I understand that it's just waiting for everyone to see the cat out of the tree. However, I believe that we need to prepare ourselves more than is currently the case. Life is gradually moving back to somewhat normal, but in view of the current occupation, I think that a plan of action for the future really needs to be drawn up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic189x.u134	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I understand it's not easy. These special times don't make it easy. We believe that, as some Members have said, SNCB should really excel. Let us look abroad and discuss what can or cannot be done. What I have heard in particular from many colleagues is the proposal to select a time when we can make suggestions to SNCB ourselves. To this end, I would like to engage with the chairman of the committee, Mr Delizée, so that we can talk to SNCB ourselves.
