ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you, although you already know, that the speaking time is two minutes per speaker. As for the speaking time reserved for the government, I will appreciate it. But I ask all of you to limit your intervention. There are other important items on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u3	Mr. President, Prime Minister, the Council of General Medicine recommends that the mask be worn by the entire population. He sees it as one of the conditions of deconfination. This position has been joined by many experts: Nathan Clumeck, Marco Natile, Jean-Luc Gala and Yves Coppieters. We could proceed in three levels. FFP masks would obviously remain reserved for hospital and nursing staff. Surgical masks would remain reserved for nursing staff and front-line actors who work with people who are still not known if they are infected. I'm thinking of home nurses, pharmacists, physiotherapists, dentists, cashiers, factors or police officers. Finally, alternative fabric masks could be worn by the rest of the population, especially in situations where social distancing is difficult to enforce, for example in supermarkets. Your Government's position so far has been to reject this strategy, in particular because the World Health Organization (WHO) does not recommend it. More and more municipalities, however, recommend the widespread wearing of the mask as a complement, of course, to hygiene and social distancing instructions. I am thinking of Woluwe-Saint-Lambert, Auderghem, but also of communes run by your own party like Wavre. In addition, these recommendations are welcomed by the public. In times of crisis, Madam Prime Minister, the recommendations must be clear and addressed to all. The other municipalities also expect a signal from you, such as that of Austria, Slovenia, the Czech Republic and even France, which follows the opinion given by the National Academy of Medicine. My question is very simple. Do you today encourage the wearing of the mask for all by making sure to distinguish the categories of masks according to the people most to protect? If so, with what large-scale manufacturing strategy and with what communication strategy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u4	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, hold on! That is the message of the campaign launched by the various governments of this country. That is also my appeal today to you, Madam Prime Minister, to your government and to the other governments of this country. This crisis calls for solidarity and cooperation. There is indeed a lot of hard work, but I also see a number of pain points. Unfortunately, I sometimes see a lack of solidarity and cooperation in this country, between governments and between politicians. Last week we had the initiative of the Minister of the Interior and this week two dossiers for which I ask your attention and for which I also count on your leadership as Prime Minister. First of all, the residential care centers. Colleagues, there is a crisis within the crisis at the moment. From Ostend to Arlen, seniors panic and feel trapped like rats. The problem has been known for some time, but I think it deserves more attention. Under the impulse of Secretary of State De Backer there is accelerated in the field of medical equipment. However, I do not believe that this is going to happen quickly enough. I therefore fear that our senior citizens and the people who care for them will be the victims of the complexity of this country. There's too much working side by side and too little with each other. They are in danger of being the victims of 9 health ministers. In that respect, I really want to ask for more cooperation. Secondly, Belgium's voice in Europe. We are a pioneer of the European idea. At least we were. Today we are often a country without opinion. First of all, we have the story of the euro notes, the solidarity and now the Green Deal. I would also like to ask for this dossier, Madam Prime Minister, to clarify what Belgium stands for and to make it clear that the Green Deal is a solution and not a problem. I realize that you are not alone in managing this country, but that you are doing so with a great deal of support. There is a great deal of public support for solidarity and cooperation. Let us make sure that "all together" is not a slogan, but something that is realized daily.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u5	Colleagues, may I ask you to respect a safe distance and stand behind the rows of banks if you wish to discuss with each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our country will be in lockdown for exactly one month. Everything and everyone came to a standstill with one goal, namely to contain the further spread of the coronavirus. We can see that the measures you have taken are having an effect. Despite the high death toll and the many difficulties on the ground, we see a number of bright spots, including the falling number of sick people admitted to hospitals. Still, we have to be careful. The World Health Organisation is very clear today: if we are now celebrating the reins, then we are playing with our health. Madam Prime Minister, in addition to caution, people also need hope and perspective. People want to see light at the end of the tunnel: our citizens, who occasionally go mad in their quarters, our businesses, our economy, workers who are technically unemployed. The bill of the crisis is estimated by the National Bank and the Planning Agency at EUR 45 billion. That is why it is time to work on an exit strategy to get out of the crisis, in a sensible and step-by-step way, as far as we are concerned, with the most important first. For our group, the most important thing is, of course, health, but equally important is the economy and jobs of the people. It is important that the economic engine starts again and gets going, because it is thanks to the economy and jobs that our health care and our welfare state are being paid for. You've convened an expert group with a lot of experts, including the governor of the National Bank, a manager like Johnny Thijs and the crumb of the virologists. When do you expect that expert group's advice to the National Security Council? When will you, as Prime Minister of our country, give people a perspective to get out of the crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, the death toll in this country today stands at 2,523, with as many as 283 deaths in the past 24 hours. In number of coronadoes per million inhabitants worldwide, Belgium follows immediately after Spain and Italy. We are doing much worse than the United Kingdom and the United States. Four out of five of our coronados are 75-plussers. That too is a major disgrace in your policy, too little protection for one of our most vulnerable populations, the elderly. Yesterday, I saw a poignant testimony from a doctor who, through the private market, provided home-care centers with tests to test the elderly there, contrary to your guidelines. When will this government provide sufficient tests for all residential care centres and also for the service flats? Is it true that oxygen devices were removed from residential care centers to take them to hospitals? If that were true, the elderly in this country would be literally suffocated. I want to hear from you today how quickly you will resolve that lack of test capacity and oxygen. I also want to know what your exit strategy is. In Austria, the Netherlands, Denmark and Germany the playbook is already ready. In this country only this week an expert group was set up to work out the exit. Does it just give advice or does it make decisions? When will that plan be ready and communicated? In fact, you should know by now how you will deal with this phase-out: with mass testing, with immunity tests, with protective equipment for all those who are going to work or by recommending mouth masks for everyone, as the mayors in Brussels are already doing today? How will you do that? I would like to make that clear today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u8	Madam Prime Minister, I have two questions. The first question is from Anna from Italy. She works in Cremona in Lombardy, in the only hospital there, and she says: where is Europe? Where is the European Union? Why do we see Europe when it comes to savings in health care? Why do we not see Europe when it comes to concrete solidarity? I think we should take the feeling of Anna's life seriously, because between 2011 and 2018, the European Commission issued 63 directives to encourage Member States to save health care. In the midst of the health crisis in which we now find ourselves, partly because of these savings, Europe's future is also at stake. Either Europe goes down, along with the hardliners and selfishness and neoliberalism of Mark Rutte, the Austrians and Germans, countries that are for a single market but not for a basic solidarity. Either there is now a minimum of European solidarity and fair aid with Eurobonds and other systems. Madam Prime Minister, which of these two choices will you defend on behalf of Belgium in Europe? My second question follows on from that. This is about recovery in Europe. I hear colleagues here talking about a recovery in our country, but the crisis is European. The recovery will also be partly European. The legitimate question arises as to whether it will once again be the Corona heroes, the low-wagers who are holding the economy fair today in our country and in all other countries, those who have long been ignored, who will have to pay for the crisis. Will you support a number of initiatives at European level? For example, Economist Zucman is calling for the introduction of a European capital tax to enable this relance in Europe and to ensure that the corona heroes do not pay for the crisis this time?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u9	Madam Prime Minister, it is unbearable for the families concerned to know that their elders have been without visits for weeks in their nursing homes, with admirable staff, but ill or exhausted, with the army that must sometimes intervene, but above all, I repeat, without the equipment and oxygen needed to protect and treat, without the tests announced for weeks being implemented. This situation is not acceptable! We ask you once again to weigh your weight as prime minister and to find all the means necessary to ensure that all the most vulnerable people are tested and treated properly, as quickly as possible. Priority must be given to nursing staff, residents and staff in nursing homes. It's a vital emergency. Last week, you announced the setting up of a group of experts to think about the deconfinement. There is no doubt that it is necessary to anticipate the future. We welcome the presence of health and social professionals in this group, although we believe that it could be usefully supplemented by other profiles, such as psychologists or education experts. I want to send you an essential message in relation to the deconfinity. At a time when some in the political or economic world are rushing to restart our economy as before, without calling into question, even if it is to the detriment of individual or collective health, we want the absolute priority, before all others, in the management of this health crisis, to be public health and the protection of the most fragile. I ask you to be the guarantor, not only in the day-to-day decisions of the government, but also in the measures envisaged in the context of this definity. Then you will have our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u10	Mr. Speaker, Madam Prime Minister, we are experiencing a dramaticly exceptional situation that has led to a whole series of measures being taken by the government, the main one of which is, of course, confinement. In that regard, the efforts and discipline of the population, which respected that measure, should be commended. Without rejoicing too quickly, we feel that efforts are beginning to bear fruit. There are encouraging signs, with fewer hospital admissions and more outings. But let us remain lucid: this is not the time to relax efforts, certainly not, especially as we see that the number of deaths is still growing daily, that many families are bruised by these deaths, especially since the staff who work daily suffers from this intensive work. This is really not the time to relax efforts. There is an increasing question of deconfinity and the prospect of deconfination. In this context, some specialists – not all – recommend wearing the fabric mask for the population. Some municipalities advise him. This is not the opinion shared by all, and the Public Health FPS insists on respecting social distancing and hygiene measures, avoiding unnecessary travel, etc. WHO is also cautious, believing that the most important thing is to avoid direct contact. Madam Prime Minister, could you recall the strategy advocated by the experts who advise the regional and federal authorities? Should the wearing of the mask ever be recommended, will there be any advice on how to make the masks and, above all, how to use them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u11	Madam Prime Minister, the Chinese corona virus has been keeping our country locked for almost a month. That was also absolutely necessary, in order to prevent us from going through scenes like in the Italian hospitals. In the meantime, it seems that we have also succeeded. We read that the end of the pandemic is far from being in sight, but hopefully the peak is gradually behind us. After the demand for clear rules, the question and the call for a perspective for our entrepreneurs, our employers and our employees are now, logically speaking, getting louder and louder. When can we go further in the direction of normal life? How will we do that? I am therefore pleased to hear from Mr Van Quickenborne that voices call for perspective in your government as well. Austria, the Netherlands, Denmark and Norway have already announced how they see a loosening of the lockdown. In the Flemish Parliament yesterday all parties called for the opening of garden centres, for example. Madam Prime Minister, when and how can we expect relaxation? What perspective can you give our citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will do my best to answer all the questions. Firstly, before I answer the questions, I would like to thank, as I have done in other speeches over the last few weeks, on behalf of everyone here the many people who are tirelessly committed to saving lives and keeping our country running. I would also like to thank all those who, with respect for the difficult containment measures, are watching over everyone's well-being. Of course, our thoughts also go to the most vulnerable people among us, for whom the present period is an additional test. I would, of course, also like to express our sincere condolences on behalf of the government, and certainly also on behalf of Parliament, to those who have lost a loved one in these difficult times. According to the latest information, 24,983 people tested positive for COVID-19 and 5,590 people were hospitalised, of which 1,285 were in intensive care. Unfortunately, there have been 2.523 confirmed deaths so far. The reporting of deaths sometimes results in comparisons between countries, as we have heard in one question. In this context, caution and restraint must also be exercised. First of all, because in the case of dead persons, comparisons essentially distort the human and psychological scope of the death. Behind every number, there are lives that go extinct and loved ones who are suffering. Secondly, because reporting by different States often does not allow for a relevant comparison. Not all people face a similar health situation at the same time. In addition, it should be noted that some countries report only deaths in hospitals, thus excluding deaths in nursing and nursing homes. Others report only confirmed cases of VOCID. Still others report only deaths attributable to VOCID-19, thus excluding cases of co-morbidity. In Belgium, we are most transparent in reporting the total number of deaths, including in nursing homes and suspect cases, as soon as the information comes to us and without excluding patients with other pre-existing diseases. And it is true that this strongly influences the figures. But, again, when we talk about numbers, let us all remember that, behind them, there are lives that go away. It's the most important thing to keep in mind. Mr Calvo, coordination is essential if we are to succeed. I've said this many times, you know that. We know that Belgium is an institutionally complex country and that it is fragmented at different levels of competence. Only by working together, all levels of competence together in the same direction, will we succeed. I'm sure of it. Today we see these consultations in various forms: in Inter-Ministerial Conferences, in working groups with experts from the federal government and the Länder, as in the RMG, also in the Consultation Committee, in the National Security Council extended to the Prime Ministers, and in the many ad hoc contacts with specific and urgent problems. The Regions and the Communities have also recently had the opportunity to meet to discuss, among other things, the approach of Easter holidays in education. They can, of course, always come together to coordinate their efforts in matters for which the federal government is not competent. In the same spirit, the Walloon minister-president questioned me on Tuesday night about the difficult situation of nursing and nursing homes in Wallonia. The federal government responded immediately and without hesitation – and that is quite normal. So yesterday, we worked to see how, through Defence and its military personnel, we could provide support for rest homes in disarray, pending a more structural solution being found by the Regions. The Walloon Region is refining the list of its needs. Contacts are also under way with the Flemish and Brussels Regions so that we can have an overview of the needs and best allocate our available resources. A Consultation Committee on this subject will be held tomorrow. You should also know that this morning, other meetings – in this case, the Interdepartmental Health Conferences – were held. We discussed the issue of oxygen in nursing homes and additional support from hospitals. You point out that it is wrong to claim that they have requisitioned oxygenation equipment from the rest homes. Indeed, these two aspects are based on different principles. Minister Maggie De Block informed me during this plenary. We continue to work again and again on the supply of protective and medical equipment, but also in terms of medicines. With regard to masks, I would like to point out that the shortage is global and that tensions are extreme in the supply markets. I am asked about the widespread wearing of the mask, which is the subject of many debates in Belgium – but not only. As you know, the recommendations we have been making since the beginning of the crisis are based on the opinion of the WHO, which is based on the scientific experts gathered within the Risk Management Group. WHO has confirmed this week, that is true, its recommendation for non-general use of masks. At this stage, the RMG did not recommend that the mask be worn generally, nor did it recommend that it be made mandatory. He did not, of course, prohibit or refuse it either – as I heard in your question. No one has rejected this use. The Public Health FPS has, moreover, put online on social networks a tutorial for those who want to make it. However, the RMG warns against the erroneous feeling of total safety induced by wearing the mask – a fortiori if its use is not in accordance with the recommendations or is not used appropriately. The RMG also points out that containment, social distancing and hygiene measures are the most effective protection measures today. All of these recommendations are, of course, assessed on an ongoing basis. Of course, it is absolutely legitimate and even recommended – and I said again last week – that everyone should ensure that their health and that of others is protected through social distancing, barrier actions and mechanical measures that are best adapted to each circumstance. To do so, continuous information on best practices is essential. That is why we have reiterated our request to the Risk Management Group that a specific working group be developed and that it be responsible for addressing this issue again. We expect a response from this group as soon as possible. We will of course have to integrate the question of the widespread wearing of the mask into the deconfinination programming envisaged by the group of experts Exit Strategy. The public will of course be informed immediately if new scientific recommendations are to be made. As you can see, we are putting all our energy into managing the crisis. Saving lives remains our priority. However, it is also our responsibility to prepare for the future. That is why, as I announced to you last week in plenary, a group of ten experts was set up last Monday with the aim of developing a strategic vision to accompany the period of relaxation of measures in the fight against the coronavirus. We know: the return to normal life can only happen gradually. The Group of Experts in charge of the Exit Strategy (GEES) will prepare analyses and recommendations to guide us in the decisions we have to make. This GEES is composed mainly of people from health care. This gives an indication of the work they have to do. They are supported in their thinking process by people from the social, institutional and economic worlds. I would stress that this is not a group of politicians or people who are supposed to represent a particular group or sector. All members bring their expertise within their own field of expertise, and without doubt also their experience but also certain sensitivities. They all have the will to reflect together on the difficult issue of phasing out measures. This in all aspects, and of course with the focus on people. Moreover, the GEES are entirely free to seek their own advice and consult experts of all kinds or actors from all sectors in the field to enrich their thinking. The first meeting of the GEES has already taken place. The group will now meet every weekday. We expect a first report next Tuesday. In any case, as has been the case so far, the decisions will ultimately be taken by the National Security Council, including the Prime Ministers of the Länder. There was a question about recovery. This week, we read the joint presentation by the Federal Planning Office and the National Bank on the findings of a scenario developed under different assumptions. So this is not a forecast but a scenario. This scenario leads to a fall in growth of 8 per cent this year, resulting in a nominal deficit of 7.5 per cent of GDP and a debt of 115 per cent of GDP in 2020. It is clear that the post-crisis socio-economic situation of coronavirus will be very difficult for all, in Belgium and around the world. As I have already said, there will be one before and one after VOCID-19, whether in our approach to our relationship to others or in our approach to our society. It's obvious to me. The question of economic recovery or redeployment will have a prominent place in this reflection both at Belgian and at European or international level. Not all these highly strategic issues will have to be discussed here like this, but in a government with a full majority within it and in Parliament, as regards fundamental choices for the future of our country. As far as Europe is concerned, it is true that exceptional situations require a collective effort by the Member States and the various European institutions. At European level, there is currently a three-pronged strategy. There is also, of course, the Green Deal, which is conceived as an opportunity and support for our economy. This three-pronged strategy involves, firstly, supporting and re-financing the national systems of temporary unemployment and part-time work. The SURE mechanism provides for a loan scheme of EUR 100 billion. Furthermore, the European Investment Bank provides guarantees of EUR 200 billion to businesses, in particular SMEs. There is also the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) with a firepower of EUR 410 billion. The Eurogroup will meet again this evening. Although progress has already been made on the conditions for the use of the ESM, there are still obstacles. If we support a vulnerable European country, Europe as a whole will be supported. That's our opinion in this story. Given the seriousness of the crisis, it is time for an agreement to be reached.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u13	Madam Prime Minister, this is important information for the Chamber and I will not use the hourglass for the timing. I will give the groups that have intervened two minutes to replicate rather than the usual minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u14	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. Certainly, given the shortage of medical equipment we are currently passing through, FFP masks and surgical masks must be reserved for health care personnel. I am thinking in particular of the rest homes which are in an extremely difficult situation. They play a leading role in the management of this crisis but also in the resolution of this crisis. Therefore, our first priority must be to support and protect them. Our fellow citizens have understood this perfectly. This can be seen in the initiatives that have developed throughout the country, particularly in the manufacture of fabric masks, in municipalities, in asylum-seeking centres and even in prisons. We see, therefore, that there is a social acceptance of the wearing of the mask, in particular with a view to the decoupling and resumption of our social, economic and professional activities which it involves. Last Thursday, Madam Prime Minister, you explained here and quite rightly that, in the context of this deconfinity, our priority had to go to health, since the virus will still be present and that it will then be to protect one another. And it is precisely from this perspective of protection and health that the wearing of the mask has its full value, as well as the testing of immunity or quarantine. Madam Prime Minister, I understand that you do not close the door to the widespread wearing of the mask, while at the same time suggesting a certain scepticism, particularly in view of the absence of WHO recommendations. I note today that the WHO is reviewing its position. In any case, she considers that this is not a bad idea in itself. I also think that we must be able to trust the people. It has been very well integrated with hygiene and social distancing instructions. It goes without saying that, if we go towards the widespread wearing of the mask, the population will not, however, forget these same instructions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u15	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. I hear and understand, in a sense, the attention of several colleagues to the exit strategy and the many questions about economic revival. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be aware that the virus is not yet out of the country. The virus is still everywhere. Our people in the residential care centers are today, at the very moment, surrounded by the coronavirus. All work on an exit strategy is absolutely important, but the first priority at the moment is public health. The same applies to people working in institutions for people with disabilities, which are also surrounded by the virus today. I believe that this should be our absolute priority. The road to economic revival is always through public health. Madam Prime Minister, I would like to call on you to intervene if there are any numbers, because that is of national importance. You mention working groups, additional crisis managers and Inter-Ministerial Conferences, but I have no message of that in all honesty. You're the crisis manager. That is why you have the mandate of Parliament, and you have a great deal of confidence in society. So you don't have to be careful. However, caution is needed for the people on the ground. Secondly, the hand brake must also be removed at European level. There is a hand brake, namely the Flemish nationalists, the Flemish government. We gotta get rid of that hand brake. Our country is a pioneer in Europe. We must be an advocate of solidarity and we must embrace the Green Deal. You have a great deal of support for this, Madam Prime Minister. Use that support. Our country needs it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u16	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for the detailed answer. Of course, I also agree with the words of thanks for the caregivers, who are double folding in our country today. I would also like to thank the many citizens who are complying with the measures, which is absolutely not evident. At the same time, I have a message, Mr Calvo, to the Inter-Ministerial Conferences and the meetings where ministers sit together and offer concrete solutions to the crisis. For example, the federal government ensures that housing centres, which are not strictly within its competence, also receive a solution and support. In this sense, there is a lot of cooperation, a lot of solidarity too, between different colleagues, and that is a good thing. As far as the exit strategy is concerned, it has to be prepared. Several countries have already made announcements. You said that next Tuesday you will receive a first report from the expert group. I have also heard that next Wednesday the National Security Council will meet again. I hope that at that time the government will also be able to offer a perspective and communicate in concrete terms how it will proceed. We do not expect to be able to return immediately to normality. No one expects that today, but it is important to know, Mr Calvo, that we can only preserve the welfare state and health care in our country with an economy that is running. Health and economics go hand in hand, and that is the plea we want to make. Madam Prime Minister, we do not want to solve all the measures quickly, quickly. We don't want that. We want it to happen gradually and well instead of quickly, which means we have to quarantine again. If the latter happens, it would be bad for our health and our economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u17	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, you repeated a number of things, which you said here last week. I can also repeat that this government is behind the facts, including the exit strategy from the lockdown. Mr Calvo, the virus is not yet out of the country, but that does not mean that the government cannot be prepared. One can already perfectly capture and communicate in which order it will reopen. Will these be the small shops first, as in Austria? Or first the highly automated companies, as in Germany? Will there be priority for construction, as in the Netherlands? No sector here knows anything at the moment. How can they prepare for a restart? Madam Prime Minister, a second case and much worse, it goes wrong in the field of public health. You are talking about working groups and task forces. In the past, a task force to solve social problems had a different name, then it was called a government. If an additional task force is to be set up, that means that it is going wrong. It is therefore significant that the governments in this country are setting up one task force after another, which should have done the work that should have been done by the ministers and the Cabinets. In this country there is no success in providing sufficient full protection material, still not, for care personnel, emergency and order services. I did not get an answer to my question, because my worst guess is that this country also fails to protect the elderly, and not only figuratively but literally suffocates them. You say that protecting our people is your priority, but unfortunately that is not the case in practice. Madam Prime Minister, if you have come to say in a long explanation that you are convinced that you are doing well, then some humility would have just fit you a little better today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u18	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for the answer. I agree with you when you say that there is a pre-corona era and a post-corona era. Unfortunately, we already have to prepare a little bit for the post-corona era, even though the virus is still there and our concern lies in the first place there. I certainly hope that the post-corona era will not be identical to the pre-corona era in a number of areas. I am talking about the role of health in our society. Instead of just saying that health and economics go hand in hand, I think there should be a debate on the place and role of public health care in our country and in Europe. We must have a debate on the 63 directives of the European Commission which have ensured that rich regions such as Lombardy and rich countries such as Spain have saved their health care. We therefore need a debate on the place of health. We also need a debate, if we want to restart the economy, on the location of low-wagers. I applaud every night at 20 o'clock for the camion drivers, for the rack fillers, for the shopkeepers, for the cleaning staff, for all those on low pay. In the post-corona era, I don't want those same people still to work for basic minimum wages. Today we heard that cleaning aid does not even have the right to include the adjustment of their technical unemployment. That is a debate on low wages in our society. Then there is the debate on invoices, the third debate, which is very close to my heart. When I hear some people, such as Prime Minister Jambon, who has made an essential move to Gert Verhulst's boat to announce that the taxpayer as a whole will have to cough up this crisis, my hair will rise. I think we should have a debate on the strongest shoulders in our country and throughout Europe, even after the crisis. We shouldn't go to business as usual.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u19	Mr Mertens, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u20	Finally, um... [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u21	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your willingness to answer all the questions and for the course you are trying to take in this crisis. I would like to say again first things first: solutions must be found for nursing homes and for institutions that accommodate people in difficulty. I am also sending this message to Mrs De Block and Mr. Backer here present. We have an obligation to achieve results in this area. These tests have been announced for too long and must be implemented! In this crisis, we must give ourselves the right priorities: to manage emergencies, rest homes and reception places – for the protection of the weakest – and to redeploy our economic system by learning the lessons of this crisis. Madam Prime Minister, I appreciated your openness to the fact that the group of ten responsible for deconfining would be open to other types of experts. I have quoted psychologists, because our society will find it difficult to recover from all that we are living at the moment, and the pedagogues, because the world of school and education is greatly affected. Finally, I call for cooperation between the entities of this country. Things are moving too slowly, but I feel good will on the part of most actors. I also call for cooperation at European level. And I must tell you my anger when I hear some colleagues contest decisions of solidarity at European level or the prospect of redeployment around the Green Deal. I ask you to stay on course and to affirm on behalf of Belgium our solidarity at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u22	Madam Prime Minister, I liked your answer because it was made with calmness, calmness and control. We also feel the wisdom of being accompanied by experts. You have to have the modesty of your knowledge. I am not at all against task force and working groups with people who know the work. You are also calm in front of all these experts who appear everywhere now. You are calm in the face of all those who do politics about everything and who try every opportunity to break our country. Thank you for your calmness and control of the situation. As far as masks are concerned, if we move towards deconfinity, it is possible that people may be advised at some point to wear masks, provided that they comply primarily with the recommendations of social distancing, hygiene and avoidance of all unnecessary contacts. Prime Minister, I think that in a difficult situation, we can show what we are capable of. The government, the Risk Management Group and the National Security Council, calmly and calmly, show that they have the situation in hand at the moment, with all the risks of relapse and all the risks we face every day. I thank you for continuing this type of work and above all for resisting those who do politics about everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u23	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, we understand that the relance will happen gradually. In this worst crisis since 1908, one thing is absolutely a priority for us. That is health, not only the health of the people, but also the health of our economy. That first is currently being worked very hard, which is good. The second, the health of our economy, requires three things: financial breathing space, clarity and perspective. Several governments have worked hard on the financial breathing space over the past month, which is good. However, clarity was often lacking. An example. On the basis of what criteria have the essential sectors been defined? We have often asked for this, but we have never been able to hear the answer. That's definitely gotta be better. Unclearness leads to uncertainty and uncertainty will cost us handfuls of money. In addition to financial breathing space and clarity, there is also a need for perspective. There must be a view at the end of the tunnel. We need to know where we are all going. We must be prepared for the next step. That step is solidarity. However, in order to distribute the cake, it has to be baked first. It is extremely important that she is baked. Madam Prime Minister, that is why we call for the Northern European examples to be followed. Show us urgently a roadmap for the normalization of our economy and our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u24	Belgium is an import and export country. Seventy percent of our jobs are created by our SMEs. It is important that these small companies can export and import even after the corona crisis. Brussels Airport is an important link in this. It is our country's second economic hub and provides 60,000 direct and indirect jobs. Since a few weeks our national airport has only run at 5% of its normal activity. 95% of all jobs are covered by the regulation of technical unemployment or disponibility. In the ecosystem of Zaventem airport, home carriers and handlers are crucial for the 300 other companies operating at the airport. If one or more of these companies start to falter, the other will soon follow. There are currently airlines in financial need, here and everywhere in the world. Today there are also two handlers here in Brussels who are on the verge of bankruptcy. If these companies do not get through the crisis, there will be an economic graveyard, the negative consequences of which will be borne by every company in our country. That is why a global support plan is needed for the national airport and for the other airports in our country as well. Mr Vice-Prime Minister, what possible ideas are being examined to give the airport a start economically after the corona crisis? Will Brussels Airport as a partner be directly involved in that investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u25	Thank you, Mr Vandenput, for your questions. You are right, aviation is a strategically important sector for our country. The cluster at the airport accounts for 26,000 direct and another 40,000 indirect jobs. Calculations by the National Bank show that the airport is the second economic hub of our country. Value added is 1.5 % of GDP. The role that our country plays in the world as an open economy and as a political hub in the world, where many decisions are taken, is also of the utmost importance if we are to have a well-functioning airport. We absolutely must maintain a strong ecosystem in this area. From the federal government we follow that very closely. I have had several contacts in recent weeks, both with Brussels Airlines and Brussels Airport and with other players. A working group was set up at the Federal Participation Company (FPIM) to follow up the dossier. Firstly, with regard to Brussels Airlines, it has been published several times in the press that Brussels Airlines has cash reserves until the end of May. The question is what happens after the end of May, until the end of the year. I do not want to say that we are delaying the dossier, but we do have room for a well-thought-out decision. Secondly, in my view it is essential to make a proper analysis of the cost structure of the company and the role of the parent company. Brussels Airlines is indeed part of a group. What we will ultimately have to do is find a good balance, a balance between the interests of thousands of workers, and our concern is particularly with them and with the interests of the Belgian State and the taxpayer, and we must also take account of the economic and strategic importance. We will have to find that balance, but that can only be achieved if it is part of a clear future plan for aviation and its role in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u26	Mr Vice-Prime Minister, I am very pleased to hear in your reply that a sustainable solution is being sought and not a one-shot approach. The airports are a lifeblood and also form the gateways to our country, in normal times and especially in exceptional times like this. Without our airports, there would be no food, no necessary food or mouth masks today. They must therefore continue to operate today, but also in the future. Airports will be a crucial part of the solution to economic revival. If we do nothing today, then the havoc will be very great. Your working group, which is looking for solutions to overcome this difficult period, is doing necessary work. We must be aware that every home carrier, every airline with Brussels as its home base, needs the national airport, just as handlers are needed. A bankruptcy of those companies is really not an option.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u27	Mr President, Minister, the large increase in the number of patients on intensive care puts pressure on our health system. If there are more patients than beds, we might have to triangulate at some point. To do this triage, ethical recommendations have been developed for doctors. These are the survival, the life years to be saved and the quality of life. People with disabilities, seniors and vulnerable people are deeply concerned about the application of the quality of life criterion. They fear that doctors will find that they no longer need to be hospitalized because of their disability. That is not the intention, of course. Everyone has the right to equal health care and there should be no discrimination. Moreover, it is important that if someone becomes ill, at home or in a facility, there is a discussion with the person concerned or the family about these ethical guidelines. In many cases this also happens and good agreements are made when someone is admitted or ventilated. In other cases we hear that the patient or resident is not involved, that no consultation is taking place and that the guidelines of the hospital or the provision are being imposed and they have to accept them. Madam Minister, can we give an important political signal today that people with disabilities should not be discriminated against in a possible triage and that choices regarding hospitalisation or ventilation always take place in consultation with the patient, the resident and the family? Can you take initiatives to refine or clarify this through a directive?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u28	Madam Minister, people with disabilities are already in a more vulnerable position during a pandemic. This is certainly the case when they feel double forgotten, such as the European Vision Forum, the National High Council for Persons with a Disability and the non-profit GRIP have already shown several times in their alarm cries over the last few days and weeks. For the sp.a group, it is quite clear that we need to respond to these alarm signals. Firstly, as our colleague also asks, it is absolutely essential to send a reassuring signal that people with disabilities will also understand the need for medical assistance: hospitalisation when they need it. We must continue to provide this clarity in order to remove the misunderstandings I know there are misunderstandings about the ethical guidelines on medical triage. Madam Minister, there is a great deal of unrest about this and we must remove those misunderstandings. Secondly, a second signal needs to be made clear that care for people with disabilities, both in an institution and at home, I am also looking at Minister De Backer, who is not forgotten in the distribution of correct protective equipment: masks, gloves, aprons, glasses, test kits and so on. Madam Minister, I would like to go into more detail about the home situation of people with disabilities. Much support for people with disabilities at home has now fallen away. There are no more day centres open, the personal assistants have fallen away and sometimes there is no more kine. Of course, there is still a need for aid, and they still need support. This need is now forced, often with love and pleasure, by carers within the family. Why have the parents who are now forced to take care of their son or daughter with disabilities not yet received recognition and support for the oh so necessary tasks they now perform?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u29	Mrs Slegers, Mr Bertels, I am very pleased that you are asking these questions, because this is a mistooth that lives strongly in society. It's really my intention to reassure people with disabilities. There are rumors that there would not be enough beds on intensive care for the elderly and people with disabilities. No less true, our hospitals have made enormous efforts to create additional beds and we still have enough for everyone. So that's really a misunderstanding. Everyone in this country gets the care he needs. We are all doing a great deal of work for this too. By monitoring the measures, we ensure that not too many patients end up in our hospitals at the same time. We stay as far away from each other as possible and in our quarters. By avoiding contact with other people, we're encountering the advance of the virus. The extra manpower and beds, also in the intensive care department, are there to be prepared for the worst. We have done this precisely so that we do not have to make the torn choices that we had to make in Italy. There one had to choose which patient one was going to breathe, which patient one was going to give up a bed and which patient one was going to give up. In our country everyone gets the care they need, also intensive care or ventilation. Yesterday, that was the case today, and we are doing everything we can to ensure this in the future. I am clear: a doctor can only judge on medical grounds that a particular action is no longer appropriate. That must of course be discussed with the family or the patient himself, if possible, or with the patient's confidants. But this never happens on the basis of age or because someone has a limitation or not. Indeed, this crisis is far from being overcome. We need to hang in there with all of us to keep the curve down. We must also persevere in our hospitals, where the curve rises.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u30	Madam Minister, your reply reassures me, but the applications I hear from the practice do not. It would be good if you could further refine what you are saying for the ethical recommendations. That's how it's clear to everyone. There is equal access to equal health care. You agree that the chance of life is important. But people with disabilities today feel a little forgotten in these ethical recommendations. You said it, but we would like to ask once again that, in order to avoid triage, medical staff can be deployed as quickly as possible in all areas: in hospitals, but also in residential care centres and facilities for people with disabilities. I would therefore ask you to remove as quickly as possible all legal barriers to the statute and other matters to date, so as to have as many people and as many hands on the sickbed as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u31	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. For the sp.a group, it is quite clear that people with disabilities are also a full part of our society. Let there be no doubt about that. We have to keep saying that at all costs. I would like to call on my fellow Members to contribute to the reassurance of the ethical directives. The ethical guidelines are not there to discriminate. Please let us all take away together the unrest that exists in society. Madam Secretary, with regard to the carers, I should like to say something. You know the problem. The law on the statute, recognition and thematic leave of the carers of May 2019 would enter into force in October 2019. There are problems with implementing decisions. If we succeed in taking swift measures for companies in need, let us take swift measures for those caregivers who are now making incredible efforts and are happy to do so, with great love and pleasure. Give them the recognition, status and thematic leave with a benefit they have long earned. Let's get to work on that, too. We can do that. We have to do that. Our disabled people and the carers deserve that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u32	Mr President, Mrs De Block, while ordering Flemings to stay inside, you have released 300 illegal immigrants from the closed centres for forced return. It is already very dangerous in ordinary times to release these people on the streets, and in the current times of corona crisis it is completely irresponsible to release these illegals to society. You replied to the concerned people and mayors by saying that this has happened before. So, because the former Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration has committed blunders, you can now commit the same blunders and people should not be angry or worried about them. That is, of course, absurd. But Maggie De Block has another very good argument to assure us that the release of those 300 imprisoned illegal migrants is not a problem for our security and our public health. Maggie De Block gave these illegal migrants an order to leave Belgian territory. Poof! Just hand over that piece of paper, and all the problems are gone. No illegal migrant has ever followed such an order to leave the territory, but this time it will work. At least that's what those who believe Maggie De Block think. Fortunately, most Flemings haven't been so naive in a long time. Mrs De Block, I have crystal clear questions and I hope that this time, unlike the last few days, I will get an answer. Do you honestly believe that these illegal migrants will follow your orders to leave the territory? Do you really think they'll take your paper seriously after you just let them loose on society? The next question I will keep asking until I get an answer to it. Is it true, what adjutant Caekebeke states, that the emergency supply of mouth masks was destroyed to house refugees among others in those vacant barracks? What exactly did you do in this respect, why did you do it and who was aware of it? The people who are now fighting in the first line against the coronavirus have the right to get answers to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u33	Mr Van Langenhove, you are always your own. Yesterday I gave a detailed answer to exactly the same questions in committee. In the closed centres only people can be locked up for disposal, according to the law. We are still trying to use these places as efficiently as possible and to use the means of confinement for as long as legally possible. Also in normal times there are sometimes exemptions for legal or medical reasons, by order of the judge or because, for example, the time limit has expired. That is why I replied to you yesterday that this was done in the past. For example, in 2018, there was a percentage of 61 % removals on the total number of detentions. However, it is true that there is more going on here. It is normal that we should also protect the residents in the centres, but above all the staff, and that social discrimination should be respected there too. This led to an additional dismissal from the closed centres of people who could not be removed in a short or in a reasonable time because there were no flights or because they could no longer be legally detained. In this respect, a selection has been made by the Department of Foreign Affairs. The selection did not include people who had committed facts against public order. That's a security measure. After all, we believe that the people who work in the closed centres also have the right to carry out their work safely. If you have any other opinion on this matter, please give it to me. In any case, even for the people who stay or work there, it is intended that they can take the necessary hygiene measures. That is why this measure has been taken, which has also been taken in all other countries. I know you don't agree with that. We will never agree and not just agree on that. However, I give you my answer calmly and I kindly ask you not to shout too loudly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u34	Madam Secretary, you have not answered. In the meantime, I have asked this question countless times and you continue to refuse to answer it. Most ministers are very well skilled in turning around the facts, dancing around the hot stuff, but you don't even do that. You're not just avoiding the question, you're just not answering. How many times do I have to ask the question? I'll repeat them again. Is what Detective Caekebeke is saying right, namely that those mouth masks were destroyed to house refugees or asylum seekers in those vacant barracks? Is that right, yes or no? What exactly happened there? Why did it happen? Who was aware of that? In the meantime, Mr Francken said that he knew nothing about it. The Secretary of Defense is also pulling his hands off. So it must have been you, Madam Secretary. That's also the logical thing. I can say that the people who are now fighting this virus in the first line have the right to know what happened there, who was aware of it and why that happened. I just can't get an answer. Mr President, what is the point of this Parliament if the Minister can simply refuse to answer our questions? Then we can just as well abolish this expensive charade.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u35	Mr Van Langenhove, I think you should take the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u36	Madam Secretary, I have a somewhat cynical note in my hand here. It is cynical because it concerns the fact that Fedasil is asking the camping owners of the coast to host at least a hundred asylum seekers for at least three months. It is not cynical because you ask, because I fully understand the need for asylum seekers to be accommodated; the justification is cynical. It says literally: "It is about a win-win situation because during this holiday period the classic tourists no longer come on the floor." How cynical can one be? The National Security Council has imposed that everyone should leave the campsites as of March 19th. Whoever was there was allowed to stay at first. After that, a kind of witch-hunt was created, not in my municipality, in which drones and heat sensors were searched for humans. They even went to supermarkets, where the people who came out had to show their identity cards. The tourists were not even allowed back to the campsites, but had to go straight home. There has also been work with click lines. All this has been done on the basis of the measures taken by the National Security Council, because there is no sufficient hospital capacity on the coast and because the risk of contamination is enormous. I have 21 campsites and 6,184 permanent accommodations in my own municipality, but now it's a ghost village. What is so cynical is that all owners and their own tenants have been chased away to say afterwards that, since they are all gone, they will be replaced by asylum seekers, for which they are simply looking for warehouses. Madam Secretary, we are showing a little honesty. You can come and explain that approach yourself to the people of my municipality and to the second-dwellers. It's beyond my comprehension anyway. I would like to know what you will do in the future, whether you will abandon that plan or whether you can give me a better justification for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u37	Mr Dedecker, I understand that the letter from which you quoted may seem cynical, given that people cannot actually go to holiday parks while the owners of holiday parks are asked to accommodate asylum seekers. It is indeed necessary that we make up places. That is not because many asylum seekers are coming in again. However, we would like to reduce the average number in our centres in order to be able to respect the hygiene and distance-taking measures there too. So Fedasil keeps looking for places. The use of holiday accommodation, usually outside the tourist season, is not new. This was also done in 2015-2016. Writing aims to achieve possible cooperation even now. It is true that the operators will probably react to it with mixed feelings and I respect their opinion on the matter. There's no pressure either. That's been said. It is up to the operators themselves to decide whether they are going for the proposal or whether they are rejecting it. In fact, it is not illogical for holiday parks to be marked, because there was capacity in the past. Another matter is why the holiday parks are now closed by the National Security Council. This happened for the sake of public health: the holidaymakers are sitting in too small houses or caravans together. When it comes to asylum seekers, a separate cottage or a separate caravan is actually a luxury, but in this way they can better comply with the measures not to get infected. I understand your feelings and I'll ask the letterwriter to rephrase them. There is, of course, a conflicting feeling among those who cannot go to their second stay, but the measure is intended to protect them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u38	Madam Secretary, the pain of not being allowed to go there is one thing, but it is another pain if one were to be replaced as an owner. You'd be surprised if you knew how many people overwinter in such a small house. There are a lot of people who also reside in those cabins in winter and who are now obliged, as in a police state, to leave there. I'm really sorry about that. The risk of contagion is as great as you put asylum seekers in it. I fully understand, however, that they need to seek reception capacity for them. Furthermore, the hospital capacity is not exactly increased for us if asylum seekers arrive there. I'd also like to pick up on what my predecessor said. In fact, we have to deal with the asylum problem again. We must tell the people to get out of their homes and replace them. I also followed the file on the 63 million masks in the press. It was claimed that they were destroyed to make way for asylum seekers. It would be a good thing for the government if it gave a full answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u39	Mr President, Minister, Minister, everyone deserves the best care wherever they get sick, wherever they stay. In this context, the residential care centers are of great concern to us. Too little testing, too little protection material, too little staff, too little training, and now apparently too little oxygen, says general practitioners who accompany a number of retirement homes. In Flanders, more than 600 corona patients have already died in a residential care centre. Since mid-March 2020 there has also been a directive to not take all infected rest home residents to hospital. But then too, they deserve the best care and we must not leave them to their fate. One cannot decide at the same time not to transfer people and at the same time deny them the best care. In this care oxygen and oxygen material are crucial. In Flanders we even hear Minister Beke ask the hospitals to assist the residential care centers. Minister, in the committee of 7 April 2020 you said that you were ordering at the most. Is this also about oxygen masks and material? After all, you spoke of medical devices. Did you order oxygen? How many of these are there for the rest homes? If not, why not? Do the hospitals have enough to catch up, as Minister Beke asks? Why is the industry not involved? You have very good contacts there. How many planes aren't on the ground? They have four to five oxygen bottles and masks on board. Maybe you can try to turn it on somehow. Is it true that in a number of rest homes throat tests were used as oral tests because the instructions for use were wrong? I haven't been able to check this information, so I really hope this is an Indian story.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u40	Madam Minister, Minister, it's five after twelve. The COVID-19 epidemic in our residential care centers is out of control. I am not going to talk today about certain ministers who apparently wanted to wipe figures on the number of deaths under the mat. It'll just be your mother who's not included in the statistics. How can we effectively solve that problem in the residential care centres today? For this we need three pillars: testing, protection material and oxygen, and personnel. We shouldn't just hang in there. We're gonna have to move a gear up. You announced 10 days ago that we could accomplish 10,000 tests a day. When I see the statistics, I see that 5,400 tests took place on March 31st. On 7 April, 4,500 tests were carried out. So the number of tests has gone down. When will you amend the guidelines to ensure that general practitioners are only allowed to take a test if there is a fever? With Medicine for the People, we have added the deed to the word in the last few days. We tested an entire rest home two days ago, both the staff and the residents, because that is of course necessary to distinguish the COVID-19 patients from the non-COVID-19 patients. We have been contacted in recent days by institutions such as retirement homes, but also by organizations such as Doctors Without Borders, who have requested our protocols. I sent it over this morning, because today it's important to share our expertise and be ready to defeat that epidemic. I would also like to give those protocols to you, Minister, if you would like to receive them. Please. [[Hands over protocols]] With Medicine for the People and with thousands of people in the country we are ready to test, to help in the rest homes. Our question to you is, give us those tests so we can run them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u41	Mr. Chair, Minister, Minister, if there are signs of hope, the increase in the number of deaths is cold in the back and the situation remains extremely difficult in the intensive care units, but also in the VOCID-19 units in the hospitals. The situation is also difficult for some patients returning home, for some particularly fragile patients (chronic patients, dialysis patients, chemotherapy patients, transplantees), for nursing homes, psychiatric hospitals or the disability sector. I would like to reiterate here how much protection equipment continues to be lacking. I would like to refer to two cases. The first concerns the situation of nursing homes, which is of great concern. We have been relaying calls for help from people on the ground for several weeks. In view of the dramatic situation, decisions have been taken to mobilize caregivers who may be able to help, but this will not be enough. A number of nursing homes have become real intensive care units when they do not have trained staff or adequate equipment. It is time to create additional VOCID-19 units in hospitals in order to freeze the number of hospitalizations of patients sent back to nursing homes, but also to relax the conditions of hospitalization for some elderly patients living in nursing homes. This would really help to reduce pressure in the latter and to pass a particularly critical course today. An interdepartmental conference took place this morning, but I think few decisions have been taken on this occasion. I would therefore like you to consider this point. The second case relates to testing. The number of tests is still much lower than recommended. We're talking about 4,300 tests over the last 24 hours. It's been ten days since you announced that 10,000 tests a day would be performed. What exactly is the situation today, minister? The testing guidelines are perplexed. We should be able to test everyone in nursing homes to isolate and protect patients who are not yet carriers of the virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u42	Madam Minister, Minister, people living in residential care are particularly vulnerable at this time. They depend on caring staff who, even now, in these harsh times, are doing their utmost to give those people a good home, in the best possible conditions. Last month the medical specialists issued guidelines for the residential care centers. They indicated that in some cases severely weakened persons are best not transported to hospital. This can be understood, especially if advanced and far-reaching medical treatments can no longer provide an increased quality of life. People with disabilities also stay in an institution after infection in many cases. This can also be defended in the light of the familiar environment for the patient. However, this policy puts enormous pressure on healthcare institutions. It is therefore very important that staff in these institutions are actively supported to deal with these medical situations. Neither the staff nor the institutions are equipped, prepared or trained for this purpose. They must, on the one hand, take into account the infectiousness of the disease and, on the other hand, be able to offer patients the necessary comfort if they are severely ill. Will all healthcare institutions be able to quickly rely on the necessary test capacity so that, if necessary, repeated testing can also be carried out? The problems with the protective materials in hospitals seem to be solved, but in many institutions there is still a problem. What was the strategy? Did everything first go to the hospitals or did a part of it go to the residential care centres and other institutions? Is it clear to the care centres where they can go with questions about procedures, resources and staff? Care professionals are now involved in residential care in tasks for which they are not normally competent, according to the law on health care professions. Not only do they now worry about their own health and their family's health, they also do not know whether they are insured for the new tasks they carry out. In a hospital environment, according to a new KB, tasks may be delegated within a medical team, but can you also reassure healthcare professionals in the centres in this area and say that they do not have to worry about any legal consequences?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u43	Minister, every day at 11:00 a.m., Belgium as a whole stops for a few moments and turns to the press conference of the Crisis Centre, with the hope that the critical threshold of the pandemic is behind us. If the number of hospitalizations seems to finally be regulated, this is unfortunately not the case with the number of deaths. Every day, hearts cling to the ever-increasing number of deaths. We have an emotional thought for all families mercilessly affected by this demon VOCID-19. Today, we know that, behind this terrible figure, there are many residents of nursing homes. In these institutions, the situation is more than critical, perhaps again because of a lack of anticipation, but also because of a lack of listening to the field which has been sounding alarm bells for many weeks. Screening has been too late; it is now insufficient. Protection equipment was missing from the beginning. It is now insufficient. If we add the impossibility of oxygenating patients, minister, it is a real tragedy that is being played out, a matter of the lack of assistance to anyone in danger. Mr. Minister, you have reserved 20,000 screening tests for nursing homes. There are 6000 tests for Wallonia, where there are 50,000 residents and nearly 40,000 workers. This is obviously insufficient and unacceptable. You are talking about a capacity of 10,000 daily tests, while the numbers show us that their number is three or four thousand: what is blocking? You say it's the experts. What are we waiting for to expand this number? Masks, blouses, all protective equipment are always expected by many caregivers including in nursing homes. You're talking about 40 million masks ordered: what's blocking? Where are those masks? What's going on, minister? We cannot say on the weekend that we are going to carry out massive screenings in the nursing homes, to inspire hope, and to let discover, every week, every day, the distress of the nursing homes that have not received the kits and the fear of the staff. We can see behind it the fear of the elders and their loved ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the residential care centres is indeed poignant. This has been demonstrated by statements made by colleagues from the Länder in response to repeated questions about the situation in residential care centres. In the residential care centres, the virus is apparently difficult to dig in. It goes without saying that at the moment we are doing everything we can to help the Länder. We held three interdepartmental conferences this week. We will, of course, pursue them until everything is resolved. Mr De Backer is concerned about the tests. In addition, the Task Force Hospital Surge has just decided that residents of nursing homes who have been admitted to hospital will remain there until they no longer need oxygen. In this way, we will unload the rest homes. In normal times, oxygen supply could be safely administered, but the pressure on them is such that hospitals take over to relieve them. I asked the working party to take other measures. It's not true that we picked up the oxygen from the residential care centers for the hospitals. Everyone knows that a hospital has a central system of oxygen, while in the residential care centres people still work with capacitors and other things. They do, of course, have a greater need, which is difficult to fill in. Currently, several hospitals are already providing assistance and equipment, and sometimes staff to care facilities for the elderly. I welcome this solidarity because it is necessary for these people. It's hot in the heart of it that caregivers are helping each other in these really complicated times. The Red Cross, Doctors Without Borders, the medical homes, but also the general practitioners jump in. The question is whether hospitals can simply make empty rooms available. I'd like to warn you about that. The staff of the now unoccupied beds in hospitals are now on other services. For the treatment of a COVID patient, for example, we need two shifts instead of one and that twenty-four hours in one piece. For someone on intensive care, that's a triple shift and for someone on ventilator even more. There's still a lot of pressure in our hospitals, which hasn't been done at all. Every day, people are still put under respiratory care. We're on the curve. If it stays that way, it's good. But this could go up again if the circumstances changed. So it's not that the pressure in the hospitals is completely out of control. That is why we must maintain our measures in order to avoid any further disturbance in our hospitals. In short, hospitals can help through their use of expertise and sharing knowledge about taking measures, about disinfection and so on. We ensure that the hospitals remain in place to continue to give everyone the necessary care. Finally, I have a small message to say to this half-round in which I welcome Mr Sammy Mahdi. I really hope that, when we have all survived, we will be able to draw the appropriate conclusions from the current crisis and from the fragmentation of our health care, which has led to such tragedies. That's really necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u45	Mr President, Mrs Jiroflée, Minister De Block has just answered the question about oxygen shortages. There is, of course, cooperation between healthcare institutions. This morning there was another meeting with the FAGG to see how we can optimise the oxygen distribution. In the meantime, we have already bought a dozen extra breathers and non-invasive ventilators. As I pointed out in committee this week, we are working on the dossier in full. As far as testing is concerned, I have already said that we have the ability to do 10,000 tests a week. Experts say there is no need to test asymptomatic people. It frustrates me too because I don't understand. That's why I made the decision last week to run 20,000 tests in nursing homes. Those tests are being distributed today. They are divided on the basis of criteria that the regions themselves have been able to establish. Last Tuesday 1,300 were distributed, yesterday 8,400, 6,500 today and tomorrow another 3,900 will arrive at the residential care centres that have selected the regions. Of course, it doesn't stop there, because if it depends on me, we'll move on. Then the test criteria will also be extended to people who are asymptomatic. This is essential if we are to see the spread of the pandemic in our country. I call on the experts from the chair to review their expert advice and to see how we can carry out the 10,000 tests we have in the fastest possible way. If they do not, I will not fail to take responsibility for it myself after the weekend. It is important to note that we are effectively continuing testing, that the domes are being consulted on how we will do it in the residential care centres and that we are also looking at how we can do the roll-out in the field in the fastest and most efficient way, because the roll-out should be targeted at the residential care centres and the other collective institutions where there is an effective problem. I'm gonna continue on my path of creating extra testing. We have received good news today regarding the validation of serological tests. We are now looking at how we can use them as soon as possible. I come to my comments on personal protective equipment and start with bad news. Last Friday I received a ticket of FF 3 million masks in Liège. At first sight, there were problems with that. We had it tested. The supplier had contacted the FPS Public Health with the announcement that he could deliver some FFP2 masks very quickly within a few weeks. On March 23rd, the FOD ordered those masks offered immediately. On 2 April the masks were delivered and a visual check showed that they did not carry a correct CE marking and that nothing showed that they were FFP2 masks. The supplier then provided certificates indicating that the masks would nevertheless satisfy the qualification of FFP2 mask. The FPS Economy has tested those masks. On 3, 4 and 5 April, the FPS Economics confirmed that the supplier could not offer a final inspection certificate and that the masks after an additional testing we did in a Belgian lab were qualitatively unacceptable and could not provide sufficient protection. On 8 April, the FPS Public Health found by means of a report that the masks supplied are not FFP2 masks and therefore do not comply. I now bring you very honest and transparent news, which I have reserved for Parliament. That's a heavy setback. It is about masks that must offer the highest possible protection to the people on the ground. As I have said a few times before, we are in a very difficult position in international markets today. Thanks to the additional tests, we have been able to make it clear that the masks in question are not satisfactory. In the future, I will continue to carry out tests in this way, to ensure that we only put quality masks on the market. Specifically, it means that the required FFP2 masks do not meet the standard after the double check. We have therefore drawn up a report so that we can follow it up. At the same time, we continue to place orders for existing needs on the ground in international markets. In the meantime, I have better identified these needs thanks to the input of the regions and the federal level, which has given me a clear view of the needs in the coming weeks. We have applied a safety margin of 50%. In the coming month we will need 15 million surgical masks and 3 million FFP2 masks. We have been able to make the same exercise for gloves, aprons and alcohol gels. Now it is important to see how the orders come in step by step. Today I have divided 2 million surgical masks among the hospitals and other institutions, again to meet the existing needs. In the meantime, we have delivered more than 11 million surgical masks and distributed 7 million masks. We have also placed more than 850,000 FFP2 masks that have passed quality control on the market. We are aware that there are also needs in the regional institutions. Minister De Block pointed out that it is not obvious to organise the cooperation properly, but we are trying to do so on the ground. We are looking, for example, at how we can start production in Belgium together with the regions. In this context, there is good news from Wallonia and soon, today or tomorrow, hopefully good news from another company that will be able to produce surgical masks in Belgium from the end of the month. I would like to conclude with the news that we are also cooperating in the development of vaccines. Today you have read the news from the German laboratory CureVac, which will carry out clinical tests on vaccines in Belgium. Johnson & Johnson also works day and night, so that a vaccine can be developed by the end of this year or early next year. Because we need a vaccine to finally beat the virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u46	Minister, I am more or less reassured when it comes to the oxygen story. However, the story of the masks proves once again that there are charlatans on the market that are taking huge advantage of this occasion. I'm still kindly expressing myself. However, we cannot cope with this way of working. I repeat, everyone must be given the best care. That's your responsibility. We must cherish our senior citizens, and so do the staff in these institutions. I would like to thank them for that. Without support, however, they stand with their backs against the wall. Minister, please make sure that these caring people get what they need so that they can continue to take care of those who need us most.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u47	Mrs De Block, if I understand – and I think this is very important information – that if nursing homes do not have the oxygen to provide quality palliative care, hospitals must accommodate patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u48	We will also find solutions for intransportable patients. But those in the hospital will be kept there as long as they need oxygen. This will already relieve. For the rest, we're still going to find other solutions. Sometimes it is impossible to transport residents to the hospital.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u49	All right. But if they are in the hospital and the nursing home does not know how to accommodate them because they do not have the oxygen to provide quality palliative care, they stay in the hospital. I think that's important information. Mr President, I ask you to be flexible with my speaking time, since the minister has spoken during my speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u50	That goes without saying. It's like the doctor...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u51	Mr De Backer, the story of the non-compliant masks is really becoming a blunderbook! We asked a question about this last week. It is time to stop just watching and form task forces. When are we going to produce masks ourselves? It has been said for weeks that this is being studied. When are we finally gonna do it? When are we going to organize the mask trade from state to state? When are we going to effectively confiscate the masks that are still with the traders today? Thirdly, there is a delay of three weeks with regard to nursing homes. This is important information. As you said, minister, it is because of the regionalization and fragmentation of competencies in our country. Today, we need a single command and a single Minister of Health responsible for the preventive and curative aspects of diseases. What's going on is insane. We are witnessing a real drama in the rest homes. Mr. De Backer, you're talking about 10,000 tests. It's time you didn't hide behind the experts or anyone else. These 10,000 tests per day must be carried out. With Medicine for the People, we have a protocol for carrying out tests in nursing homes. So I will finish my speech by telling you that I will hand over my test protocol to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u52	Mr. President, Minister, 13,000 beds are now available in hospitals. You told me on Tuesday in committee. This represents 25% of the number of beds. Of course, it is not possible to use all of these beds. But rather than sending the ball back from one level of power to the other and accusing you of the worst – I heard what you said earlier – you should drive together the creation of VOCID-19 units for elderly patients. According to those on the ground, this is clearly achievable in a whole series of hospitals that are ready, provided that they obviously have an impetus from the various governments. It's not about patients on oxygen. This will clearly reduce pressure in nursing homes where the situation is critical. The decision must not come tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, it must be taken as a matter of urgency. As far as testing is concerned, minister, I heard what you said. You're proposing to call on the experts. I thought you were the competent minister! The reality of the numbers, everyone hears it, every morning. That raises the question. Everyone can observe the consequences on the ground. However, is it normal that, in a nursing home, after five people tested positive, no one is tested and so much worse for those who are not carriers of the virus? Is it normal for services such as dialysis to refuse to test patients? Is it normal that the guidelines do not allow a sick child to be tested when his father died of VOCID-19? These are totally unacceptable examples. Minister, review the directives, but above all give the means to test massively! You always tell me that self-tests are not credible. However, Switzerland, whose credibility is important, is in the process of setting up a self-test for every citizen who will be available in a pharmacy. There are therefore other alternatives. Develop them!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u53	By transferring responsibility for medical care, intensive and palliative care for a large part to residential care centres and the other institutions, there is a great responsibility on the federal government, which in this way can free a large part of its hospital beds and beds for intensive care. A major task of the federal government therefore seems to me to take care of the care institutions with regard to the practicalities, the provision of expertise, a pool of medical assistants and the provision of materials. I hear that everything is possible in this area, Mrs De Block, but I hear very little about concrete preparations or roadmaps that would already be ready. I think that's a missed opportunity. In fact, care centres, and especially residential care centres, do not know exactly where they are going and where exactly they should seek help. I would like to call on the ministers and the Risk Management Group, in which the various governments are represented, to give priority to residential care with test material, as they have no other diagnostic capabilities. Hospitals do. They may still fall back on a CT examination of the thorax. I heard from you a lot of good will and a lot of action, Mr. De Backer. I would like to thank you for that, but it is important that we draw the experts' attention to the urgent situation. It is simply a pity that there is a test capacity and that it cannot be used. I would like to call on you to remember the institutions at the second stage of this crisis when immunity tests are rolled out, because the sooner ordinary life can return to those institutions, the better for the residents. Finally, I would like to pay my deepest respect to all those who work in the residential sector. You now take care of our parents, grandparents and people with disabilities. You take care of our fellow citizens who are forced to rely on others, on our society. It is our job to support and protect you and the people you care for in this challenging time. We must do everything we can to ensure that we continue to come up with solutions, even if they do not work here and there, as with the FFP2 makers. We must continue to seek, try and work for new solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u54	Mr. Speaker, Madam Minister, Mr.Minister, I am sorry, but once again, the gap between your speech and the reality is enormous. Whether it's the enlargement of screenings, protective equipment, there's always a "no luck", "it's not our fault", "I'd like to but I can't". Minister, Minister, we know that your job is difficult, but it is the job that the citizens expect of you. So, yes, expert advice is essential, but a minister's decision is necessary. Let me tell you again: rest and care homes are time bombs. Bombs that now require a deminer. We ask you to take your responsibilities without delay. There is a need to strengthen collaboration with hospitals, and to develop alternative care facilities. There is a need to strengthen the staff of the institutions. There is also a need to strengthen the presence of doctors on the spot and, finally, there is a need to strengthen the generalization of screening without, as you say, the minister. It's vital now! More than ever, our elders must remain at the centre of our concerns. Women and men who care for them must be able to do their jobs without fear, for themselves or for their loved ones. It is intolerable if it is otherwise. Protecting the most vulnerable of us is a political responsibility. Protecting our elders is a citizen's duty. Protecting our elders and those who care for them is true solidarity, true citizenship, the true sense of duty. You must now put the will into it!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u55	Mr Minister, let us be clear from the outset: everything must be done to combat coronavirus. All the scientific society, from all disciplines – private and public laboratories, associations – are mobilizing to find ways to put an end to this pandemic. Thus, in the context of an exceptional crisis, we are ready to provide exceptional answers. Nevertheless, these responses must be part of our democratic framework. They must be accompanied by strong frameworks to reconcile the requirement of the public interest with absolute respect for individual freedoms, including the rules of respect for privacy. In order to achieve this balance, there is a fundamental prerequisite: transparency. The use of gsm data to help fight the pandemic is increasingly being mentioned, without further details. However, Minister, the scientific world clearly points out that a location data cannot be completely anonymous and that a telephone signal can be used to determine each person's movements and make an unacceptable intrusion into his privacy. It would therefore be easy to cross dangerous borders. Today, however, there is a lack of transparency. Indeed, it is not easy to know what the government is considering when it comes to the use of data. Is it a collection of anonymous data or an individualized tracking? Is it a matter of developing, as in some States, an application that would allow us to know who has been in contact with a contaminated person? Is it a use of data with or without authorisation? Are these data used to prepare deconfining or enforce containment? None of these questions is trivial. The least we can say is that they reflect our total ignorance of the government's intentions and the means it wants to implement. We know that a Data Against Corona Task Force has been set up. Who is at the initiative of this task force? Who composes it? What is his mission order? Has it already submitted proposals to the government? Is the Data Protection Authority associated? Have any opinions been given? Are they public? What is the relationship with the Prime Minister's panel of experts on deconfinement? Have you made contact with academic experts who advocate alternative solutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u56	Minister, we are all convinced that we can only combat the virus and limit the number of victims by testing, testing and testing as many people as possible. We need to be able to identify how many people have been infected and, preferably, how many people can potentially be infected. I therefore also understand the option of developing a corona app. A number of questions arise, not only from myself, but above all from a number of Flemish scientists in an open letter last week. For example, they ask how we deal with the fact that the coronavirus can survive several hours on different surfaces. Or, yet, how does one deal with the fact that one can encounter someone who is only checked a week later, so one does not know very well whether one is infected by it or not. In addition to questions about the efficiency of such an application, there are also questions about privacy. How does one deal with the fact that the application may not be mandatory, as in China or Poland, but is non-binding? A survey by the University of Antwerp shows that 50 percent of respondents would never want to install such an app and 80 percent are worried about privacy reasons. Minister, how will you deal with the warnings of many Flemish scientists? When can we expect the app? Time is pressing for that. Do you have any idea of the cost of developing and maintaining such an application? My last and perhaps most important question is: how will you, as Minister, together with the Data Protection Authority, try to ensure that the privacy of our citizens is taken into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u57	Colleagues, may I congratulate our new colleague on his maiden speech? There are still certainties in these uncertain times. Mrs Gilson, this is not your first speech in an assembly, since I believe you have sat in the Brussels Parliament. That's right, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u58	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u59	So it's not quite a Maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u60	Mr. Speaker, this is the first time in the House of Commons.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u61	Yes, that's it. So that's a little bit the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u62	Minister, following infected people to make sure they don't contaminate others can obviously be considered essential by experts in order to continue the fight against coronavirus – especially during deconfination. Several States have begun this reflection. Tracking is facilitated by the use of mobile applications. According to our information, the Task Force Data Against Corona has received several proposals and is working in this direction. This tracing, of course, raises questions, especially with regard to privacy. Imposing geolocation on people, as some States have done or practice, seems to be not very applicable to us, whereas the activation of an application on a voluntary basis could, on the other hand, be considered. Whatever the choice, some safeguards seem necessary and must be maintained. Anonymisation of data remains an indispensable criterion for reconciling the fight against coronavirus and respect for privacy, from which everyone must be able to benefit. Minister, what is the state of play in the task force? Is this tracing a proportionate response to the current crisis? What are the limits of the current reflections to ensure respect for privacy? Who would oversee the procedure to ensure transparency? Finally, have you engaged in discussions on this matter with your European counterparts? A coordinated approach at European level seems to us to be appropriate, given the existence of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u63	On behalf of the Federal Parliament, I would like to congratulate you, dear colleague. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u64	Mr President, when the coronavirus first appeared in Belgium, I started to set up a Data Against Corona working group. It is made up of specialists in this field. It examines how data can be used to better understand the development of the pandemic in our country. From the beginning, I integrated the constraints of the GDPR. That is why the President of the Data Protection Authority is a member of this task force. I also immediately decided that an ethics committee should be set up. After all, it is necessary to check whether data usage is correct. At the same time, a data protection impact assessment has been carried out to see what can and what can't be done. That ethics committee will be made up of national and foreign experts and will have to check that everything is in conformity with the legislation and that we do not exceed certain limits. We have initially started using the data available to the government, for example to use a modeling tool. Then we went on to use telecom data, anonymized and aggregated. These data have already shown, for example, that the Belgians remain in their quarters effectively. People spend 80% of their time in their own home town. Like many experts, I am concerned about the questions about privacy, especially if we move on to a next step. Technology could play an effective role in the exit scenario. We'll talk about track and trace. This is currently being discussed with the regions because they are responsible for monitoring people. So we want a common approach. If there is an exit scenario with technology, then that technology must be used in the same way throughout Belgium. Of course, I have also contacted the European Commission, Mr Breton and Mr Reynders to ensure that I have a European framework. It seems logical to me, since the GDPR is a European regulation, that we remain within this framework. For the time being, we are receiving proposals from universities, public centres, and also from the private sector. We are analysing them to make a decision in the coming weeks. We are also in contact with the Group of Experts in charge of the exit strategy which the Prime Minister has just mentioned. These data are important to determine this containment exit strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u65	Minister, thank you. I have not had many answers to the questions asked. I take note of that. I would just like to point out that before we play with the data and privacy of our fellow citizens, there are recommendations made by the WHO to be implemented. The first is mass screening, which must be the government's top priority, not mass tracking. For my group, the lack of information about consent, the lack of transparency, the lack of democratic control to date in the use of personal data are unacceptable. If you were to choose this solution that could only be justified by exceptional circumstances, I would like to point out that it will have to be brought to an end the day after the crisis. Moreover, the best academic experts in privacy have reminded the press today: there are technological solutions that do not require the transfer to private actors of the location of eleven million citizens. The objective of knowing the movements of the population can therefore be met by other far less intrusive means. This will include the availability of and compliance with protocols and open and verifiable source codes. Indeed, the health crisis that we are experiencing could not serve as an alibi for libertic decisions that would damage our democracy irremediably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u66	Minister, how effective that app will be is still not clear to me. The first concern must indeed be that we are increasing the test capacity and that we are providing enough mouth masks. That is our greatest concern. We must ensure that this is done in the first instance. South Korea is, in my view, the great example in this respect. A country that already had a test capacity of 10,000 tests a day in January. Two months after our first corona patient, we don't have 5,000 tests a day. I believe that we must devote all our energy and time to this. If an application can have an effective impact, I hope that privacy will be taken into account, and I also assume that you, as a liberal, will take this into account. Only, you are part of the executive and you are sometimes under enormous pressure to deal with the corona crisis. If the pressure gets too high, I can assure you that I will be standing there to tap you once in a while, with a big smile, on your fingers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u67	Minister, we are aware that every lead to fight the pandemic must be activated and evaluated. For us, as Liberals, it is clear that the measures must be proportionate and respect privacy. Achieving this balance is not simple, but your answers demonstrate your willingness to move forward in this context, in particular by ensuring that the President of the Data Protection Authority takes part in the task force. That's very reassuring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u69	You have received a proposal to amend the agenda for today's sitting. You have received a proposal to amend the agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? [[No]] Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. Are there any comments on this? [[No.]] The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u70	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u71	Mr Leysen, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a fairly technical amendment to the e-notification legislation. Nevertheless, it deserves our attention, because it is a question of the smooth application of the notarial practice that must be ensured. Notaries are obliged to inform the recipient of the taxes in the event of alienation or mortgage use of a real estate or a ship. The recipient may in turn inform the notary that the seller is in debt. The notary must then include all or part of the purchase price. As a result of the draft law, the notary would no longer be required to include the mortgage status of the property in his messages to the recipient. I pointed out in committee that the mandatory communication of the mortgage status of the property by the notary to the recipient is contrary to the only-once principle. The principle of unique data collection provides that federal administrations may not request the same data twice, which the administration already has electronically. I have also pointed out that it is unclear on what date the mortgage situation should be notified. Logically, that would be the mortgage situation on the date on which the notary sends the message to the recipient. In practice, that is impossible. For the record, this is not up to the notaries or their clerks, but to the FPS Finance itself. In order to know the mortgage status of a property, the notary must apply for a mortgage status from the mortgage office. They supply that mortgage state, in practice with weeks or months of delay. As a general rule, the situation shall be declared on the date of application and not on the date on which the mortgage office delivers the mortgage certificate. The notaries therefore have a blind spot about this mortgage of the real estate at the time they give the message to the recipient and later also when the deed is done. That is why the N-VA Group is satisfied that the Minister and the majority of the committee members have taken the view that the mortgage situation should be given only as optional in the messages. In addition, it is also an improvement that the recipient informs the notary when he has taken a legal mortgage. We are convinced that these minor changes will improve notarial practice and thus reduce the blind spot with regard to the mortgage status of real estate and notaries' ships. The retroactive action will be maintained. As it is difficult to adapt data retroactively, we understand that the legal provisions will be adjusted retroactively, but the legislative amendment will apply to future notifications. The N-VA Group will adopt the draft law following these improvements.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u73	Mr President, the draft law on the e-Notarial has already been the subject of a whole process. It provides the possibility to send data and documents between the FPS Finance and the notary via the computer. A digitization that is absolutely necessary in these times of corona crisis. We therefore hope that colleagues will support this bill. This could break the standstill of a number of notarial acts. The process ensures efficiency. It is now aligned with the comments of the Privacy Committee that have been given earlier. The sp.a will therefore fully support this bill. We are in favour of efficient public authorities in all areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u74	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u75	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (910/10) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (910/10) The title has been amended by the committee in draft law amending the Value Added Tax Code, the Income Tax Code 1992, the Code for the amicable and forced collection of tax and non-tax claims, and the Programme Law (I) of 29 March 2012 with regard to the processing of personal data transmitted via e-notariat". The title was amended by the Committee in draft law amending the Value Added Tax Code, the Income Tax Code 1992, the Code of Friendly and Forced Recovery of Tax and Non-fiscal Claims and the Programme Act (I) of 29 March 2012 on the processing of personal data through the e-Notarial." The bill has 24 articles. The draft law has 24 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u76	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u77	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Leen Dierick.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u78	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. M Mrs Verhelst, rapporteur, refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u79	Mr President, in committee we have already pointed out that greater involvement of institutional shareholders in company policy will only be achieved if institutional investors also have a proportionate say. In practice, this will not be the case in the case of double voting companies, as institutional investors also have to comply with the liquidity requirements in the UCITS Directive. Consequently, in companies with double voting rights, which are reserved for registered shares only, the shareholders' directive 2017 will remain dead letter. We therefore believe that the transposition of this legislation through this legislative proposal is insufficient. Mrs Dierick, I have one more question for you to clarify. Can I ask them now? [[Yes.]] Article 7:97, § 4, WVV, refers to the conflicts of interest between a member or members of the board of directors of a listed company and decisions or transactions with a related party. "If a driver is involved in the decision or operation, the driver shall not take part in the deliberations or voting." That is an almost literal take-over of the text of the Shareholders' Rights Directive. Nevertheless, the concept of an involved driver is very vague and can be interpreted in different ways. The first is the narrow approach to a conflict of interest in property law, as set out in Article 7:96 WVV. Since that provision continues to apply without prejudice to Article 7:97, § 4, WVV, the meaning of "driver concerned" should be wider. A second way is a functional approach, which, in my view, clarifies its true meaning. For example, are directors nominated by a controlling shareholder, who are also employees of the controlling shareholder, involved directors who are not allowed to rule on the transaction with the related party? Do you agree to that functional approach?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u80	Mrs Dierick, I think you're being bombed as Minister. I suggest you answer those questions later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law that we are considering today aims at transposing a European directive with a view to promoting the long-term commitment of shareholders. Some improvements are also being made to the Code of Companies and Associations. This directive is part of the European Commission's action plan "European Company Law and Corporate Governance - a modern legal framework for greater shareholder involvement". Several parts make up this text. The first concerns the identification of shareholders in order to enable direct communication between the company and its shareholders. To this end, intermediaries through which shares are held are required to provide information on the identity of shareholders. A second aspect concerns the involvement of shareholders in listed companies. This commitment is reinforced by the imposition of transparency obligations on institutional investors, asset managers and voting advisors. Finally, among other things, one aspect concerns the issue of the remuneration of directors by requiring companies to develop a remuneration policy and to publish a remuneration report, both of which will have to be put to the vote and published. It should be noted that the legislator has opted for an approach of faithfully transposing the directive, which is essential to us. We have tabled two amendments, with the intention that this transposition should be as strict and consistent as possible. In Article 30, we wish to maintain the existing legislation which provides for an overall publication of the remuneration information in the remuneration report, except in respect of severance pay and share shares and options, for which information must be provided on an individual basis. Indeed, the extension of the obligation to declare individually the remuneration of persons who are not part of an organ will not bring any added value in relation to the objective sought, i.e. transparency of remuneration. We also want to remove the obligation to include in the remuneration ratio the ratio between the highest remuneration among management members and the lowest remuneration among employees. Even when a ratio covers a representative part of the employees of the enterprise, it is very difficult to compare the efforts of the enterprises on this basis, as the composition of the workers of one enterprise can vary from one sector to another, from one size to another, from one economic model to another. In addition, most neighbouring Member States have literally transposed the Directive without imposing this ratio. In conclusion, these changes are an evolution that allows companies and shareholders to engage more in mutual dialogue and greater long-term involvement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u82	I am rather astonished, Mr Friart, to read this amendment. In essence, the work in committee has been fruitful. I read the reports. This work has shown how much real progress has been made in transposing this directive on the information that companies and their shareholders need to make public in order to gain a better understanding of the functioning of companies. This is of interest not only to the workers who contribute to the prosperity of these enterprises by making available their labour force, but also to those who want to know how the distribution of wealth in our society, within a company, is evolving, but more generally, within the society itself. This is why, in this interesting movement of greater transparency in the operation of enterprises and the way in which they design their economic development over time, respecting not only working conditions but also societal respect and the environment, in short the way in which companies can contribute to the qualitative improvement of our economic and social fabric in a sustainable way, in this movement, we considered that it was also essential... We were given the opportunity to discover, after the 2008 crisis, the Lehman Brothers crisis, the huge wage gaps linked in particular to the massive financialization of the economy. It had to be noted that in some companies these wage differentials could range from 1 to 250 in relation to the ratios between the highest wage and the lowest wage in the same company. We are very far from the times of J.P. Morgan and Henry Ford who, at the time, already advocated themselves, big bosses in the financial and industrial world, salary scales to a maximum of 1 to 20 or 1 to 40. Today, in some companies, the ratio is 1 to 250. Remember, too, that some very large companies were doing collective redundancies while, at the same time, the CEOs were spending millions of euros in stock options. I'm talking about Belgian companies! How do you want the workers to understand that? That's not possible, Mr. Friart. So it is important to have the right balance within our companies to ensure cohesion in the operation of the enterprise, in the distribution of wealth between the distributions of dividends and the wage increases legitimately claimed by the workers. How do you want the workers to understand this and how do you want them to be informed if they are not told? That is why the additional small step which has been taken and which has been voted on in committee would make it possible to do precisely that. I really do not understand the amendment you are tabling. I think it's a step backwards that you're proposing, and I'm very afraid that some of you may not really understand the scope of it. That is why I allow myself to intervene. I therefore call on the MR Group to reconsider this amendment because it will widen the gap between the workers who are currently suffering – and the current context of the coronavirus shows this amply – and who have difficult months' ends for a large part of them, with a real risk of precarisation. In addition, we are going to tell them that we are going to allow a system to continue where, in all opacity, some can continue to develop wage differentials that can be as large as those I mentioned. Of course, let's not exaggerate! Let us be lucid and especially serious! The gap between 1 and 250 does not exist in all enterprises, but there are companies where this can exist. Yes, today, in particular through stock options and through a whole range of indirect, diverse and varied benefits, there can be huge wage gaps that no one can admit and that no one can understand. I really call on the MR Group to reconsider its amendment. We will vote against this amendment. Frankly, is this really the time to come with an amendment like this when we know that our fellow citizens, especially the workers, are struggling today with all the negative social consequences of the coronavirus crisis? Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u83	Mr President, thank you for the temporary promotion you have given me. I'm sure she'll be very temporary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u84	In these times, we shouldn't be afraid of anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u85	Indeed, one surprise after another. As my fellow Members have already said, with this proposal we want to transpose the 2017 European Shareholders' Directive in order to promote the long-term involvement of shareholders. It has become clear to us from the financial crisis that shareholders supported drivers taking excessive short-term risks. The focus was far too strong on short-term returns; hence, actions are needed to promote the long-term involvement of shareholders and to create greater transparency between companies and investors. The bill responds to this with a number of measures. Mr Friart has already given a nice summary of this, so I will not repeat them. The various parties have had a very good and constructive debate on this in committee and I would like to thank them for that. I hope that the text will receive broad support. I have received another question from Mr Houtmeyers. It's a rather technical question, so I'll also give you a rather technical answer. That can also be given by a minister. Mrs Houtmeyers, the procedure provided for in Article 7:97 of the Code of Companies and Associations, applies to transactions of a listed company related to a related party within the meaning of IFRS standards. For example, the members of the board of directors of the listed company are considered to be related parties to the company. The procedure requires the formal approval of the board of directors of the listed company for each of these transactions. Therefore, if one of the members of the administrative board of the listed company is itself involved in the operation, it is logical that he does not participate in the decision of the administrative board on the operation. It must be considered that a director is involved in the operation if he has a direct or indirect interest in property which is contrary to the interests of the company, for example because he himself is a counterparty of the company. Moreover, a driver is also involved in cases where, for example, he is an employee or a driver in the associated party or plays a role with her, in whatever capacity, for example as an advisor in the decision-making process for the operation in question. I therefore believe that the terms of the driver concerned should be interpreted according to a functional approach. I hope that this explanation will be sufficient to answer your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u86	You're a fast learner. The best answers are sometimes the answers that the Minister himself does not understand, and the questioner does not either. Then both are happy. I'm just kidding. Every once in a while it's gonna be possible in these tough days, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u87	Mr President, I would like to say to Mr Laaouej that there are, in fact, two amendments: Amendment No 180 and Amendment No 181. Amendment No 180 is intended to maintain the remuneration provided on an individual basis for directors, members of the Management Board, members of the Supervisory Board and delegates to day-to-day management. It aims to remove them for other leaders such as members, engineers, executives, for example, on a technical committee. For these other leaders, it is proposed that you go back to the original text, namely the text of the European Union directive, which is taken up by all other countries and according to which the information must be provided in a comprehensive manner. You spoke, Mr Laaouej, of Amendment No 181 concerning the wage differentials between a senior manager and the employee who receives the lowest wage. Here again, Belgium stands out because the other countries have not proposed an amendment to this point in the European directive. So they chose to follow the latter. To go beyond that, in my opinion, would serve us in terms of competitiveness. Indeed, when a company wishes to settle in one country or another, it must be aware that an analysis is carried out. She looks at the country where she has the most advantages and where there are the least constraints. However, Belgium is not always well positioned. Its regulation is complicated, sometimes complex. There is the federal government; there are the Regions. Many things must be assimilated. You don't have to put a diaper back on. In the coming years and, at least, in the coming months, we will need to rebuild and rebuild. Therefore, let us try to do so as simply as possible. Moreover, the European Directive provides precisely that the evolution of the gap will be monitored. So we're not talking about a number, we're talking about an evolution. It's not about taking a picture, it's about looking at an annual pattern. It seems to me much more useful and talking about having this tool than a figure that does not mean much. That is why I stress the need to take up Amendment No 181, which we are proposing. Returning to the European Directive as enacted, like other countries, is therefore an excellent initiative in the current context.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u88	Mr Friart, with all due respect, let me tell you that the argument of international competitiveness is a little cream pie. It's the one we get out when there's no other argument. You claim that we could become less attractive. Let us then take the United States, which is not a Bolshevik country: they learned the lessons of the 2008 financial crisis. In this regard, they have adopted a measure called the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which specifically provides for transparency obligations on remuneration. I have them, in summary, in front of my eyes. They concern the total annual remuneration of the CEO and the median remuneration – which therefore cuts the series in two – of the employees, with the exception of the CEO. Exactly what constitutes the difference between the highest and lowest incomes is determined and then the relationship between the two. The United States itself, in the annual reports of its companies, makes this information transparent. You take the argument of international comparison. I give you an international comparison with a country that is not said to be particularly affected by restrictions on the functioning of the market. Second element on international comparison. I'm sorry, but we can still decide what we're doing in our country. It is not because some people think that we have to go less quickly than we do that we must also be lagging behind. There are a number of examples where Belgium has on many occasions shown innovation: social innovation, economic innovation, societal innovation, innovation in the field of public freedom, fundamental rights. In fact, this Parliament has no shortage of examples, with dossiers currently under way. We can be at the forefront of progress in the way we organise social and economic relations within a company, but also vis-à-vis interested third parties. Among the interested third parties, there is, for example, the State. We are about to adopt the $50 billion guarantees to guarantee loans from banks. Who will benefit from this? To the economic fabric. The State makes efforts, but in exchange, the State may also request, for example, information. There is nothing incongruous about being in this constant search for a balance between the economic interests and the interests of the workers so that, together, these interests come together so that they can have a coherent society ensuring sustainable development. That's what we're asking. Mr Friart, I understand that you are not going to withdraw this amendment. So here I was making my conclusion. We will vote against your amendments. As for the first amendment, I apologise, but neither can it be accepted. In essence, the scope of transparency that you are trying to circumscribe does not hold, because there may be managers who do not have an organic link to the management of the company but who, within this company, have particularly important responsibilities. It is not inappropriate to involve them in the transparency of executive salaries. That's my conclusion, Mr. President. I understand that there would be no movement in the other direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u89	There are a lot of reactions on the MR benches. Two people are asking for the floor. There is some departure from the rules that are applicable in a general discussion, but it is the political debate. Mr Piedboeuf had asked for the floor first.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u90	Mr President, I would just like to make one point. The comparison with the United States is obviously very fun. Indeed, unlike what is happening at home, in the United States, making a lot of money and showing it is rather a quality. Here, it's a flaw. It's like bankruptcy. Bankruptcy in the United States is no big deal. We're building a case. When you go bankrupt here, you're pointed out as a person who missed. That's the big difference. Compare with the United States is making a very bad comparison. In the United States, the more you win, the better you're seen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u91	Mr President, with regard to the United States, I think that, given its interest in this country, Mr Laaouej may have become a fan of President Trump. You'll have to confirm it to me later. In terms of wealth-sharing, Belgium is one of the OECD countries where this sharing is best done, and where the gap is lowest. We must certainly take this into account in our thinking today. You were telling me that we should be a precursor in this matter. I do not know whether, today, in the current context, this kind of initiative should be taken. We must be able to preserve our growth, which we will need in the coming months and years to maintain and above all create jobs. Employment has always been one of the objectives of the MR, and we attach great importance to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u92	Mr President, I would like to add that we will support the amendment tabled by the MR. We do not think it would make much sense to show a ratio between the highest remuneration of management members and the lowest remuneration. After all, a relationship between the CEO's salary and the lowest wage of a full-time employee does not mean anything about a company's wage policy. We know that a CEO will probably be able to do the job of the person who earns the least within the company, and it is still a question of whether the person who earns the least could also do the work of the CEO and whether that person is willing to take the stress and mental pressure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u93	Mr President, for Mr Friart and for the report, I just wanted to remind you that this is a reform led by Barack Obama. And, if you ask me my tastes, I'm much more a fan of Barack Obama than Donald Trump. You won't be surprised! For the rest, Mr Friart, economic growth must be revived, of course! But if you imagine for a moment that it will be possible to do so at the expense of workers' wages, then it is repeating the same mistakes that have been made in recent years. This is to believe that we will be able to revive the economy by asphyxiating the workers socially. Workers also have the right to a fair wage for work done in dignified conditions. This, Mr. Friart, is the message we want to send you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u94	Mr. Friart, we're talking about Barack Obama, Donald Trump. We were talking about Bernie Sanders. Maybe you can tell us something?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u95	Mr President, I agree with Mr Laaouej that the salaries of all employees of a company should be promoted. The best way to do this is through growth and prosperity. That is why we are keen on this amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u96	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u97	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (553/9) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (553/9) The title was amended by the committee to propose legislation transposing Directive (EU) 2017/828 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 amending Directive 2007/36/EC with a view to promoting the long-term engagement of shareholders and laying down various provisions on companies and associations". The title was amended by the Commission in its proposal for a directive transposing Directive (EU) 2018/828 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 amending Directive 2007/36/EC as regards the promotion of long-term shareholder involvement and laying down various provisions concerning companies and associations." The bill has 239 articles. The bill has 239 articles. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u98	• 181 – Benoît Friart cs (553/10)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u99	Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u100	Sustained: the amendments and Article 30.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u101	Article adopted by article: 1 to 29 and 31 to 239.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u102	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u103	The MR Group has sent me the following applications: - the nomination of Caroline Taquin as an alternate member of the Benelux Inter-Parliamentary Consultative Council; - the nomination of Ms. Nathalie Gilson as an alternate member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe; - the candidature of Mr Philippe Pivin as an effective member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe; - the candidacy of Mrs Magali Dock as an alternate member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. The MR Group has given me the following applications: - the candidacy of Mrs Caroline Taquin as alternate member of the Benelux Consultative Council; - the candidacy of Ms Nathalie Gilson as alternate member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe; - the candidacy of Mr Philippe Pivin as a permanent member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe; - the candidacy of Mrs Magali Dock as an alternate member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Since there are no other candidates, there is no vote, so I declare the candidates elected (art. 157, No. 6, Rgt). Since there are no other candidates, we should not vote. Consequently, I declare the candidates elected (Art. 157, No. 6, Rgt).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u104	By letter of 16 March 2020, Mr Philippe Roland, first President of the Court of Auditors, communicated that Mr Franz Wascotte, an adviser to the Court of Auditors, would reach retirement age on 9 October 2020. By letter dated 16 March 2020, Mr Philippe Roland, first President of the Court of Auditors, announced that Mr Franz Wascotte, Counselor in the Court of Auditors, would reach retirement age on 9 October 2020. In accordance with article 1, paragraph 3, of the Act of 29 October 1846 on the organisation of the Court of Auditors, advisers are appointed by the Chamber for a term of six years. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 1 of the Law of 29 October 1846 on the Establishment of the Court of Auditors, the Boards are appointed by the Chamber for a term of six years. The Chamber must therefore appoint a new adviser to the French Chamber of the Court of Auditors. The Chamber should therefore appoint a new councillor for the French Chamber of Auditors. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 April 2020, I propose that you publish a call for candidates for the Belgian Monitor. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 April 2020, I propose that you publish a call for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u105	By letter of 16 March 2020, Mr Philippe Roland, first President of the Court of Auditors, communicated that Mr Franz Wascotte requested that he be able to carry the honorary title of his post from the date of his retirement. By letter dated 16 March 2020, Mr Philippe Roland, first President of the Court of Auditors, informed the House that Mr Franz Wasscott asked to be granted the title of honor from the date of his retirement. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 April 2020, I propose that the House grant this request and grant it the honorary title of office from the date of its retirement. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 April 2020, I propose that the Chamber respond to this request and award him the title of honor from the date of his retirement. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u106	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. The agenda also mentions a supplementary list of proposals for consideration by the Conference of Presidents. The agenda shall also include an additional list of proposals whose consideration has been requested from the Conference of Presidents. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u107	Colleagues, we have arrived at the urgent requests. Normally we speak out, but in the circumstances that is impossible. If the group leaders can inform me of their group's position on a request for urgency, then we can decide whether the urgency has been adopted or rejected. Who's asking for urgency?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u108	Mr President, we are asking for the urgency of Mr 1138/1's proposal. Scourneau and Friart following a comment by the Conseil d'État. In 2019, we took two orders in relation to the abuse of economic dependency, one in March and the other in April. There was overlap and the Council of State noted that the provision that was being made to allow the government to correct by Royal Order was somewhat weak and that the means to correct that overlap needed to be strengthened. As these provisions will be implemented in June, there is therefore a real urgency to address this problem. The idea is to correct the recommendations of the Council of State. It is for this reason that Minister Ducrame, through our Members, has called for the need for urgency to be emphasized.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u109	Who supports Mr Piedboeuf's question of urgency? Mr Verherstraeten, Mr De Roover, Mrs Pas, Mr Lachaert and Mrs Fonck supported the request. So there is clearly a majority. The request for urgent procedure for proposal No. 1138/1 accepted. Who else is asking for the floor for an urgent request?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u110	Mr President, I would like to ask the urgency of legislative proposal No. 1139/1. The current times are exceptional. Many workers are placed in temporary unemployment. For people who work in customised companies, there are still problems that we want to address with this proposal. Since the crisis is still raging, it seems to us appropriate to deal with it urgently.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u111	Mr Lachaert asked for the floor on this request for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u112	Mr President, I should like to add something. As far as the urgency question is concerned, I do not want to express an appreciation of the proposal itself. The subject is very much appreciated and we certainly need to deal with it. The problem is that there are a lot of urgent questions. If we approve them all, this will disturb the committee agenda every time. My group maintains the line that if something has been discussed with a number of groups, if we believe that there is a great deal of support, if we know that something can pass quickly and if we can justify the urgency in substance, we will support it. There has been no consultation on this, and that is why we do not support the urgency now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u113	Mr. President, it's the same thing. Consultations are under way. They haven't been completed yet. So it's premature. It is necessary to wait for the outcome of the consultations before examining this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u114	I do not share Mr Lachaert's view that there should first be consultation in limited groups in order to know whether something can pass quickly or not. Let us respect the parliamentary debate. All parties have opinions on the legislative proposals before us. The urgency is, of course, independent of the substance of the proposal. In view of the content, I do understand Mr Kitir's urgent question, which says that this cannot wait very long. Our group will certainly support the question of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u115	Urgency has nothing to do with the attitude that is being taken towards the proposal. If we urge the government to work through Parliament as much as possible and as little as possible with special powers, we in Parliament must ensure that we do so as efficiently and quickly as possible in these circumstances. That is why we are voting in favour of urgency, but this is not a prelude to our attitude to the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u116	Mr President, with the exception of a mistake on my part, this is not a power of attorney but a change to an RB. It is proposed to change a KB by law. The fastest way to change a KB is by issuing a KB that changes the original KB. With all due respect for the content of the proposal, for which I have a great deal of understanding, I would like to suggest that in the coming weeks, when we can no longer physically meet, we ask for the least possible urgency. I am an abuser of asking for urgency today, but I do ask that we do this COOVID-19-related and in consultation with each other. My suggestion to Mrs Kitir is that she should contact the parties. I assume that there will be further changes in the RB on unemployment regulation, which are not the execution of powers of attorneys, but regulations issued through the RB. A solution could possibly be found that would be even faster than any legislative work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u117	Mr Verherstraeten therefore does not support the request for urgency. Colleagues, I suggest that we move forward. We can discuss any legislative proposal here and any one can submit an urgent request, as it were, under the motto'my urgency, fine urgency'. I notice that whole theories are associated with that. That is why I have proposed to make the round in order to check whether or not an urgent request is supported. Mr Fonck, do you support the request for urgency?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u118	Mr President, I shall speak once and for all about the points highlighted on this list. Four texts were announced yesterday as a matter of urgency: three from the CD&V and one from the MR. As we have had time to examine its substance and form, we support the urgent request that concerns them. With regard to the proposals which are submitted today to the same request, I will tell you frankly, ladies and gentlemen, that they arrive at the last minute. On the other hand, I do not fully understand the method of work required for Parliament or how to link it with the special powers and the meeting of the kern enlarged to the ten parties. That is why my group will abstain from the urgent need for these texts, regardless of the three others that were clearly announced yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, do not ask me to put a method on the table here, because I do not have one. There is a list of considerations and, as is always the case, one can ask for urgency. I can't figure out the motives of everyone, I just have to check whether the question has sufficient support. If there's any doubt about that, I'm gonna have to have an electronic vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u120	Mr President, you do have a method, because we had already started it. Since there is a not insignificant debate here, I would like to briefly explain how our group approaches these votes. Of course, first there is the question of whether it is urgent or not. We then support Mr Kitir's proposal. Mr Verherstraeten rightly says that we can work through an RB, but there is currently no political commitment to do so. Hence our support for urgency. On the other hand, there is a commitment by Mrs Muylle to work through a KB to freeze the degressivity. That is also why, contrary to our announcement in the Conference of Presidents, we do not ask for the urgency of our proposal. Of course, if there is no commitment, we fully support Mr Kitir's request for urgency. Another argument that we always share is, of course, that we want to facilitate parliamentary work. This will also be the case for legislative proposals from colleagues from CD&V. There is, of course, always a substantive appreciation. I have taken note of the content of the motion for a resolution tabled by the N-VA colleagues on the European approach to the corona crisis. We do not recognize that at all, and that is why we will not support the request for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u121	Mr President, I am surprised that we have entered into a debate. I would simply like to say to colleagues that Parliament is working. We don't do anything abnormal here. This is the normal operation, which we agreed to at the Conference of Presidents. To those who feel ambitant about the rejection of urgency and want to discuss it in a debate, I suggest that they stick to what the President of the Chamber has said, and that they vote for or against urgency. The debate is being held in committee, as we do differently. If not, we can sit here for three hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u122	Colleagues, there is currently no member of the PTB. The PS and sp.a groups, together with 29 members, support the request for urgency. The 21 members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats also support the request for urgency. The colleagues of N-VA and of Flemish Interest also support the request for urgency. This gives the urgency request a majority. The urgency of proposal No. 1139/1 has therefore been accepted. Anyone else asking for urgency? That can be supported without dedications, the urgency can simply be promised or refused.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u123	Mr President, I have two requests for urgency. I am not asking whether you recognise the substance of this, but whether you are giving Parliament the opportunity to deal with these matters, as long as they are still relevant. If they do not receive urgency, they may at some point be on the agenda when they may no longer be relevant in the context of the corona crisis. Apart from the question of the substance of the matter, I would like to ask you the urgency of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Loones cs (point 21 on the list, No. 1142/1) and Mr Spoelen's proposal (No. 1143/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u124	Mrs Kitir, Mr Laaouej, Mr Calvo, Mr Lachaert, Mr Piedboeuf, Mr Verherstraeten and Mrs Fonck do not support the question. The urgency has therefore been clearly rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u125	Mr President, I would like to ask the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1144/1 on various measures in the field of civil security, the Bill No. 1145/1 laying down various provisions on justice to reduce physical contacts, in particular on notarial matters, and on legislative proposal No. 1146/1 on the suspension of the procedure for the social elections. These proposals are all three COVID-19 related. Some colleagues have asked whether there has been any social dialogue in the area of civil security. That has not been done so far, but I share their view that it is appropriate that this should be done. I have been in contact with the Minister who agreed to this and is prepared to organise the social dialogue. I was given permission to report that to this assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u126	Mr President, as far as we are concerned, we have put a condition in place to support the urgency. There was a need for a commitment to social dialogue on civil protection. I take note of the fact that Mr Verherstraeten, on behalf of his group, undertakes to do so and to inform Minister De Crem. We will, of course, remain very attentive.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u127	Mr President, our group will support the urgency question, perhaps together with various parties here. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that this is a specific situation for Parliament. We gave powers to the government to work a few weeks ago. Now we want to give Parliament a greater role again. We, Members of Parliament, can only agree that parliamentary democracy will be fully respected at that time. However, this will also involve discipline and responsibility for all of us. After all, it is a responsibility that ends up with us. The COVID-19 crisis has not yet come to an end. Today we are still seeing the mortality rate and we are also seeing the depth of the crisis. It will therefore be up to us to demonstrate that we can also handle such legislative proposals in our workings, at the speed necessary to prove that Parliament can function effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u128	Mr President, we are certainly going to support the urgency of these three legislative proposals, given their corona-related nature, although we have not been consulted in advance. We are constructive, you know that. I am actually pleased to note that, for the sake of speed, one of our arguments against the whole power of attorney regime was that it could also be done quickly and efficiently by the appropriate means, through Parliament in the meantime, and that we are working through legislative proposals, as is normal practice in this Parliament, and not through powers of attorney.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u129	I, too, am very pleased that this progressive understanding has led to what our group has requested when approving the powers of attorney. I shall abstain on these questions as a matter of urgency. Basically, to protest against the appalling and manifest lack of collegiality that I had to observe in the previous vote. I deeply regret that. I hope that this will not be a preliminaries and that a normal discussion during the corona crisis period will not be made impossible here, because in fact the Chamber has just spoken out against the spirit of normal operation in exactly the wrong way, and it has been pointed out here that the Chamber must be able to guarantee its full functioning. I very much regret that, and will therefore abstain three times for reasons of principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u130	There's no need for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u131	Mr President, I will be brief, but this is fundamental. The interventions of Mr Pas and Mr De Roover oblige me to respond. Mr De Roover, you do have a very special form of cooperation. You are actually saying that if your proposal is not approved, you will refuse to register in cooperation with others. The questions put by Mr Verherstraeten concern real needs in the field, the organisation of social elections. You say that my proposal has not just been accepted, so I do not support it. Mrs Pas, I have already made it clear to Mr Lachaert that we want Parliament to work as much as possible in the vote on confidence................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Saying that working with powers of at the time was a bad decision, I disagree. I would like to remind you of the moment that we made that decision together with ten parties. At that time we did not know whether Parliament could come together at all. For me, that's not a change of strategy. We are trying to take the necessary decisions in difficult circumstances by different means.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u132	Mr President, the request is a little specific. In this case, we are asked to support the urgency of essential laws. I said right from the start that the PTB would be a constructive party for all the measures that need to be taken in this health emergency of the coronavirus. I have also proposed that the various parties present here co-sign these proposals. I hear you ejected us from the group of ten on Saturday morning, but there is a historic opportunity. I said we were ready to build. I don't understand. We are not allowed to co-sign such bills. Yet it was an opportunity to reach out. I believe that on this side, I would have wanted a little more coordination in this area. But these measures deserve urgent action, even if we will discuss their substance again in Parliament. The urgency is the question that is being asked here today. Mr President, you will indeed have the support of the PTB for the urgency of the three proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, for the last three proposals cited by Mr Verherstraeten, the urgency has therefore been accepted (No. 1144/1, 1145/1 and 1146/1) Colleagues, I would just like to add that this is related to the law that gives special powers to the government. Giving special powers to the government is always a bit of an abdication from a parliamentary point of view. However, if the government decides not to use it and leaves Parliament the opportunity to develop normal procedures, then the President of Parliament can only be pleased. Secondly, special power decisions are always sent to the Council of State, which always reviews such decisions, albeit in a limited period of five days. I use my prerogatives as President-in-Office of the Council to obtain the urgent opinion, i.e. within five days, on these three proposals. I do not want to be accused afterwards of trying to avoid the Council of State in one way or another, since the Council of State always has to be consulted in the case of special powers. Is everyone okay with that? [[Assent]] In doing so, we have dealt with all the requests for urgency. In total, five proposals have gained urgency. That does not need to be voted on electronically; that is actually a relief.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time now, we are going to have a virtual electronic vote system. A virtual 147 colleagues have already signed up, which is more than a normal Thursday plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u135	Mr President, I will speak on behalf of my colleagues to thank the services for making this exercise possible. We're 147 here, it hasn't happened in a long time. I'm really sure everyone thinks it's very nice to be able to count on competent services. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u136	I wanted to say it after the votes, to make sure everything went well. But Mr. Piedboeuf is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u137	Vote on Amendment No 180 by Benoît Friart cs on Article 30. (553/10) Vote on amendment No. 180 by Benoît Friart cs to Article 30. (553/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 67 Yes No. 63 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 144 Total
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u138	Mr President, I must tell you that some members of my group are unable to vote. I am obliged to say this because it is a question of democracy and it is played with three votes, if I am not mistaken.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u139	To four voices!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u140	With four voices. However, three members of my group are unable to vote, to express the negative vote. The services can check. They are informed as present, but I repeat that they cannot vote. My goal is not to complicate things. But if this is to be done with one voice, we must be able to take it into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u141	Mr President, I agree, because I see from my group that four people did not vote when they were present a few moments ago. So it is possible that there are technical problems. I'm trying to figure that out right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u142	144 have already voted. There would have been 4 Members here and 4 Members there, but that would have been more than 150 Members of Parliament, which is not possible either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u143	Mr President, this is an exceptional procedure. Some of my colleagues even say that we are living a historic moment. It is true that we have adapted our Rules of Procedure to allow remote voting, given the circumstances. But we must make sure that, democratically, the vote is valid. I share the concern of my colleague Mr Laaouej. I was unable to verify whether all my colleagues in the Ecolo-Groen Group had been able to vote. If there is any doubt, I would ask that the vote be resumed. It's quite experimental, it's not usual, but I think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u144	We can do the vote again. But I can't guarantee anything. 150 members have signed up. If not everyone votes, not everyone votes. Members do not take part in the votes either on other Thursdays. Now all of a sudden, we're supposed to have everybody. Also on those other occasions there are members who do not enter or later, whatever the reason. Let us agree that if the amendment is adopted, I will not vote on the second amendment. After all, when an amendment is adopted, the discussion will automatically be suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u145	Mr President, you will then put the second amendment to the vote next week and we will have to suspend the debate again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u146	If an amendment is adopted, the discussion must be suspended and the vote may start again at the earliest the week after.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u147	Mr President, that is not the case with the second amendment, is it? We can approve of that, can't we?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u148	You're right about that. I'm wrong. Does everyone agree that we are going to do the vote again?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u149	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u150	Three PS members and three N-VA members did not vote. Those voices might just compensate each other. So that doesn't make any difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u151	We'd get a chance to retake the vote. Technically, it's possible. What's the problem? We've already done it here in plenary, we can do it again. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u152	It wasn't a test.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u153	I know, but it's a first for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u154	It is not possible, whenever the result is not appropriate, to propose to revisit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u155	I believe that this is a first for everyone and we will be fixed when we see whether the vote is confirmed or not. Let's understand, three people can't connect. It is a technical impossibility to vote. That's not right! If this continues, it will then be considered that it is referred back to committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u156	Mr President, I would like to insist on a certain pragmatism. We know who did not or did not want to vote or who voted. That will make no difference in the result. Are we going to wait for all 150 Members to vote on each vote? Maybe someone fell asleep. I'm not necessarily ruling that out. And then we have to suspend work. Of course you can't. In these circumstances, if the result is questionable, we must look at it differently, but I insist on pragmatism and that the result is certain. As you have said, there are three from one group and three from the other who have not been able to vote. That will not affect the end result.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u157	Mr President, what is the problem of starting a vote again? Technically, this has already been done here. We have the electronic tool to do it. What is the problem with rewinding? I'm asking to understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u158	Mr Laaouej, we never vote again and, in most cases, there are no 144 participants. There may still be reasons why we did not participate in the vote. You say it's for technical reasons, but I can't control it. I note that 144 members took part in the vote, that 3 members of your group did not vote, and 3 members of Mr. From Roover. That is a perfect compensation, because one neutralizes the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u159	Mr President, we could say we were here an hour and a half ago. We were therefore able to declare ourselves present an hour and a half ago and no longer be present at the time of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u160	I suggest we keep the result as it is. When we get to that, it's gonna be an endless game to re-vote. Maybe there'll be a good deal. Now a comment is made after the vote is known. In the end, we are all in very close contact with our group members via WhatsApp or any other means. If there is a problem with a Member who cannot vote, I suggest that this be reported while the vote is taking place, so that we know that someone reports technically unable to vote. Then that can be looked at. If you do that afterwards, when the results are known, I'm not okay with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u161	Mr President, I have a screenshot of someone who was physically there and was unable to vote. This is a democratic problem! We would have the problem here of someone pressing his button, with a vote that is not counted, the president would count the vote. I ask that the vote be recast. What's the problem? You may have your amendment. My problem is not about the outcome of the vote, it is about the democratic conditions of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u162	Are we asking for a separate vote on the two amendments? [[Assent]] We shall now vote on the second amendment. Vote on Amendment No 181 by Benoît Friart cs on Article 30. (553/10) Vote on amendment No 181 by Benoît Friart cs to Article 30. (553/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 51 Yes No. 66 No Abstentions 33 Abstensions Total 150 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u163	Mr President, I regret but this shows that the outcome of the first vote on the first amendment does not correspond to the democratic expression of each of the groups, of each of the parliamentarians. I am sorry, but we have to vote again on the first amendment. Now everyone's connected. It works for everyone. The first amendment can therefore be re-examined in good conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u164	If there is consensus, we shall resume voting on the first amendment, since 150 members have now taken part in the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u165	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. However, you are threatening to set a precedent here. Do we have to wait for 150 members every time?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u166	I can't imagine it being this close every time. This was an equal vote and amendments do not make it easier. If we now see that 150 Members are connected and also voting, then I would like to re-vote on the first amendment, so that there is no doubt. No precedent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u167	Mr President, this is, of course, the first time we have done this and we are all still looking. It could be this one time, but I wouldn't set a precedent for this. A group leader present must report before the vote ends if any of his Members has any technical problems. Otherwise the vote will be final. If we do not do so, then we will start a discussion on the basis of the well-known results, and I do not think that this is a fair debate anymore. Because it is the first time, we can do it now, if everyone agrees. I would, however, like to avoid this happening. If the President says that the vote is closed and no one has reported anything, then that is final, unless someone has made a mistake.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u168	Mr President, I would just like to say that we had a long discussion not long ago about voting in the Committee on the Interior. A vote took place there. Mr Laaouej then insisted that the result of that vote should not be referred back to committee. In the same spirit, which Mr Laaouej defended in the Conference of Presidents with a lot of sweat drops, I now wish to oppose the re-release of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u169	I would like to join in this. Mr President, you should be careful not to judge an electronic vote as it has taken place today but a vote that would otherwise take place in Parliament. Even then, not all Members present will vote because of carelessness and so on. We can never figure out why some Members didn't just vote. I think it's a dangerous precedent. If we repeat a vote every time after the final result and wait for 150 Members to vote, I am absolutely not in favour of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u170	Colleagues, technical difficulties have been raised. A member texted me saying that the connection suddenly went away. A technical problem is a fact. For example, a member cannot vote mordicus because he or she does not care; then we know that too. I propose that the voting time should be extended. If Members inform their group leader that they have not been able to vote for technical reasons, I would ask them to inform us so that we know this here too. By doing so, we learn. The proof of the pudding is in the eating . That is the way we will have to proceed. When we voted on Amendment No. 181 I see that 150 Members have been able to vote. Amendment No. 181 was rejected by that vote. Apparently, the 150 MPs are connected. That is why I would like to give the 150 Members the opportunity to vote on Amendment No 1. 180, to be taken back, without this being a precedent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u171	Mr President, imagine that the result will be different at the time of the vote, what will you do? Which of the two votes will then be valid?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u172	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u173	Mr Laaouej, I am particularly disturbed by your shaky position on voting. You must continue the line. Mr President, it has just been said that a vote will be taken if everyone agrees. Well, I disagree.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u174	Mr De Roover, there is also a majority to vote on. I note that a majority of the group leaders confirm that the vote is not a precedent. We have just been informed that some Members have not been able to vote. The possibility for each Member to vote did not apply to the first vote on Amendment No. 180.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u175	Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the vote on Amendment No 2. 180 re-opened. Group leaders tell me when Members say that they cannot vote because they are not technically connected, so that we know immediately and not only when the vote is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u176	Mr President, there is the Rules of Procedure, isn't there? When the vote is taken, the vote will be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u177	I shall put the first amendment to the vote again. I declare the vote open and leave you at least five minutes to vote. Vote on Amendment No 180 by Benoît Friart cs on Article 30. (553/10) Vote on amendment No. 180 by Benoît Friart cs to Article 30. (553/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 69 Yes No. 64 No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 149 Total The amendment was therefore adopted. Consequently, the amendment was adopted. As the amendment has been adopted, the vote on the whole cannot take place today. This vote shall be postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u178	Mr President, as regards the report, I would like to point out that by asking for the re-vote on the amendment, you have also made it possible for Mr Rigot of the PS to change his vote, from one to the other. Mr Laaouej said that he would not only raise the technical problems, but also the wrong voice of his group members as a reason to repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u179	Mr President, I will not say that very often, but I do not have a democracy lesson to learn from people who do not have lessons to teach in the field of democracy. Secondly, the technical problems – and I refer to the report – were pointed out before the vote was closed. It was before the end of the vote that I pointed out to the Presidency that there were technical problems. For the rest, a Member of Parliament, when there is a second vote – and this has already happened in this plenary – changes his vote because he was wrong, it happens regularly. It's not a first. This is the first time that we have had a remote vote in this democratic assembly. It is therefore not inappropriate to be able to vote again if some of our colleagues, who are elected like you, have not been able to vote technically. Respect for democratic expression means ensuring that everyone can freely express his or her vote. That is what is at stake here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u180	I'm going to add another case. I once had a vote again in physical voting because at the end of the vote I had been asked to take a vote again. It happens regularly that voting behaviour changes in the meantime. It happens. Sometimes colleagues make mistakes. There are also colleagues who are late and who are asking another colleague to vote. This is a system that we have technically put quite well on track, but since it was an equal vote, I understand that we want to give everyone the opportunity to participate in the vote. 150 Members voted on the second amendment and 149 Members voted on the first amendment. Please don't let us throw the child away with the bathwater. I am a little sorry about the bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit An amendment has been adopted. The vote on the whole cannot take place today and will be postponed until next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u181	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 150 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 150 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (910/11) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (910/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-09-55-plenair-ip035x.u182	The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Thursday 16 April 2020 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 16 April 2020, at 2:15 p.m.
