ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, you know the system in the meantime. Everyone asks his question from his bank and the Prime Minister can take his place at the front of one of the puppets. I would like to point out once again that speaking time is strictly regulated. There are 13 questions. That means that I have to give the government at least one minute per question. That means 13 minutes, Madam Prime Minister. After that, Members will have one minute to reply. This meeting will be broadcast. As soon as your micro goes out, you won't hear anything in the living room. So try to stick to those two minutes' speaking time. Mr Mertens, you are welcome to begin.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u3	The problem with last Friday's press conference was that everything was fine, except for one thing. The figures were in order, the phases, the intermediate stages, the abstract explanations and the attention to our two national sports, kayak and golf. But the later it became, the clearer it became that you were forgetting something, namely man. Where is the man who has been retreating for weeks and strictly adheres to all possible measures in this corona crisis and craves for family? Where is the man who is sometimes lonely, who has a hard time and longs to see children or grandchildren again? Have we forgotten how people live? There was a proposal at the beginning of last week to possibly meet two, five or ten people from the family at home. That proposal was wiped off the table by the National Security Council under pressure from the lobby of the VBO and Voka. Apparently, in our country, the lobby of the big business is bigger than the lobby of the heart. In essence, you have decided two things: firstly, that we will see our boss faster than our family and friends, and secondly, that safety in the workplace will no longer be fully guaranteed from 4 May. That is why I have two questions for you, Madam Prime Minister. Who finally decided not to discuss that proposal to see family back on the Security Council, or to throw it off the table there. Where do the forces who say that only the economy counts and not the social, and who do not seek a balance between economic, social and scientific? Are you prepared to strengthen the social inspection at these times in order to be able to carry out mass checks on the workplace from 4 May onwards?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u4	Madam Prime Minister, in a few days' time, we will begin the first phase of deconfination decided by the National Security Council. This means a gradual return to employment. I said it last week, and I say it again: for the PS, the health of workers is and will remain the top priority. The human must pass before the economy. We have already experienced more than 7,000 deaths. People are still in the hospital, in intensive care. We can't take any chances. Return to work can only take place if the safety of workers, their families and the population is guaranteed in the enterprise. Contrary to what we heard this morning with the new provocations of the boss of the FEB, we believe that confinement has a meaning and allows us to save lives. Pretending that going to work is the safest thing not to be contaminated is really living on another planet. A large survey of the FGTB with 10,000 respondents shows that at the heart of the crisis, almost 10% of workers found themselves in work without being able to respect social distancing and without specific material or protection. Most workers are concerned and fear a sharp increase in stress and pressure at work. Prime Minister, it is now time to announce strong measures to reassure workers who will have to return to work. How will their safety be ensured? Will employers have to put in place specific measures before they return to employment? Should they respect the guide negotiated by the social partners? Will controls be carried out? What will the worker be able to do if he feels that his safety is not guaranteed? Can he refuse to go to work, without risk of reprisals and with continued pay?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u5	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, we need prospects to get out of this crisis. We must resume our economic and social life. But not at any price! And certainly not at the cost of our health! However, as we can see, the conditions surrounding deconfination are still not present to date. Firstly, while the number of hospitalizations is declining, it remains well above the 100 hospitalizations per day recommended by the experts. Today, we still have 178 hospitalizations a day. Secondly, we would have a test capacity of 25,000 tests a day, except that the general practitioners tell us today that they will not test people who have symptoms if they have not obtained guarantees on your part as to the place of collection, the protective equipment and their remuneration. Thirdly, the precise modalities of tracing are still unclear. The same applies to the distribution of tissue masks to the population. In addition to all this, the Prime Minister, the experts are concerned about the short period of time that has been set between the various stages of the decoupling. We are talking about May 4th, May 11th, and then May 18th. However, it is known that it takes a minimum of 15 days to assess the effects of economic and social measures on the spread of the virus, if they will accelerate or slow it down. But if it accelerates it, the consequences will be catastrophic for our hospitals and our health care staff, who are literally exhausted today. I come to my questions. What do you respond today to the experts, the doctors who are concerned about this plan of deconfination as well as about a potential second wave of the epidemic. Why not have a two-week delay between the various stages of this deconfining plan? Why did you prefer the opening of department stores to family meetings? Finally, what is your strategy, and what is your precise timetable for the full implementation of the conditions of deconfinement by 4 May?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u6	Madam Prime Minister, I understand that drawing up an exit strategy is not easy. It seems to be a choice between health, economy or social contacts. For sp.a, it's not an or-or story but an en-and-story. It is a difficult balance, but it must be a balance. Yesterday you confirmed that the first phase of easing indeed starts from Monday. Companies from essential or non-essential sectors may resume their activities. Everyone hopes that the rest of the timing will be able to preserve the stores on 11 May, the schools on 15 May and finally the prospects for social contact, but then it is important that everyone remains motivated. The motivation in the population is falling rapidly. In particular, it fell sharply after last Friday's press conference of the National Security Council. You have given a very long press conference, but your message was not understandable and the people have dropped out. In order to make the exit strategy a success, we should not only count on today's heroes, but also have a great responsibility for the government. The exit strategy will only succeed if the government also does its part, and there is still a lot of work to be done in this respect. You promised everyone a mouth mask on Friday, but soon came the communication that no one knows when they'll be there. You promised a lot of tests, but communication shows that there are already too few. You chose 2,000 trackers instead of an app, but the communication afterwards was that none of them have yet been recruited. The people are coronamoe, but what they are especially tired is the confusion and the unclearness. A strong government looks ahead, prepares decisions and communicates only then. My question is very simple. Why didn't you prepare the measures in advance? Only in this way will the announced measures enjoy the confidence of the people and will they continue to maintain them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u7	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, like thousands and thousands of Belgians, I listened to your press conference last Friday. After hearing you, I wondered what planet you could live on. In any case elsewhere, not here in Belgium. What is this contempt? What is this contempt for disembarking at 10:30 p.m., when people have been waiting for 5:30 p.m. in front of their television station? What is this contempt? That is not what we need today. We need clear and constructive measures. What have we been offered last Friday? Seriously? Actually, you've made two decisions. After the first one, we'll see all our bosses again before we see our families again. Following the second, all the safety conditions that had to be guaranteed in companies must no longer be guaranteed. These are the two decisions that the government proposed on Friday night. Prime Minister, I do not agree with you! I don't understand that we had to go find our dad, our mom, our cousins and our cousins in Hema's department! One of your Liberal ministers even confirmed it. Do you find that normal? In what radius are we going to meet? In the canned one? A little serious, please! People must be given priority! That's what people are waiting for. The economic aspect should not only be taken into account. Who wrote your text, Madam Prime Minister? Who congratulated you on Friday night? Only one organization congratulated you: the Belgian Federation of Enterprises. The latter actually applauded. But for ten years, I have never experienced such a manifestation of anger on the part of the people. This anger is terrible! My question is very clear: are you going to review your plan to give priority to families, to human warmth rather than to business, to money, to the coldness of the money? Other priorities need to be taken into account as part of the decoupling plan! Madam First Ministry, I am angry and you must know that!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is becoming increasingly clear that contact tracing will play an important role in the exit strategy. You can do that manually or via an app. Experts argue that these two should be used complementaryly. However, my questions to you are not of a technological nature, they are about essential political coordination. Madam Prime Minister, I am asking you the questions, because you are actually my last hope for clarity. Three weeks ago, a debate in plenary revealed that such an app would be available in the very short term. For our group, that was the incentive to submit a resolution to meet the necessary conditions of such an app. There also appears to be broad parliamentary support for this. Last week I and my colleagues learned that such an app would not be available. On the same day, however, a bill was submitted to the Data Protection Authority. That bill is about an app that wouldn't come. Madam Prime Minister, I can't follow anymore. Meanwhile, the regions are recruiting massive coronas peurders. The work of these investigators is labour-intensive but also invasive: data are kept for ten years, people can expect home visits. The federal government provides the platform and the Länder with the staff. Madam Prime Minister, frankly, this approach sounds more and more like a compromise à la belge. Everyone colors neatly within the lines of his authority, but a global vision is lacking. Madam Prime Minister, what will happen to people living in Flanders or Wallonia and working in Brussels? What agreements have been reached on coordination? How many services are they going to get in touch with? In the meantime, several countries use such an app. Is he gonna come to us or not? Where is the legal framework for regulating the whole approach to contact tracing?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u9	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, if the COOVID crisis is good for one thing, then it is for the inventing of new words such as the 'and-a-half-meter economy' and the 'COVID haircuts'. Yesterday there was a new word, "exitenthusiasm." You have just announced a very cautious relaxation of the measures and we are already dreaming massively. Exitenthusiasm strikes strongly. After such a stressful period and with the summer in front of the door, we naturally dream of holidays, sun, sea and beach. You heard yesterday that the coastal mayors are of the opinion that not everyone can come to the coast. Yeah, it's hard to travel. There are also European countries that are already looking ahead and say that tourists are welcome but that they want to impose certain conditions. With the COOVID passport, another new word, one should prove that one is healthy. Austria says it only wants to allow tourists who are very healthy, if the virus is very well controlled. There will also be corona corridors. In short, where and how to travel within Europe is still far from clear. Those who have done their best to comply with the rules and really deserve to be praised for doing so now also deserve to know where and how they will be able to travel. They deserve at least a perspective, even if you say that you will have to stay in your own country rather than in your own house. We know that then, and we'll find alternatives. The Belgians have shown that they can handle this very well and creatively. If necessary, they will come camping with you or with me in the garden. Madam Prime Minister, is there a view of a coordinated approach within Europe to border policy for non-essential movements and family visits? Is there an agreement with colleagues on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, every week I ask you to communicate clearly about the measures taken in this crisis. Every week, I don't think it's gonna get any worse, but you're still astounding. Last Friday's toe-curving press conference was due to come. Chaos, surrealism and incompetence, that not only sums up the late press conference, but also the late policy of your government. For weeks, you communicated that masks don't help, which your Health Minister still claims to be today. Last week you stated here that these mouth masks would play an important role in the exit strategy. Now the government makes mouth masks mandatory in public transport, in school and in some workplaces from 4 May, but it appears that the mouth masks have not even been ordered. Madam Prime Minister, how is that possible? Half of your government is competent for mouth masks! We have Minister De Block, the Minister for the Destruction of Mouth Masks, who refuses to answer questions about this in Parliament. There is Minister De Backer who has to buy the medical mouth masks for the care staff who, after months, are still not getting the protection they need. Minister Muylle has to order the filters. Minister Goffin is responsible for the foreign purchase of mouth masks. In the meantime, Minister Geens has become the home minister and has to take care of the substances that citizens need to make their own mouth masks. Madam Prime Minister, when will the citizens receive the masks you promised by 4 May? Do you really think it is a testament to good governance that an important pillar of your exit strategy is based on private crafting and sewing by citizens? Do you really think so? Or do you think, like me, that this is very humiliating and unworthy of a welfare state?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u11	Madam Prime Minister, it's actually going from evil to worse with your policy. I even wonder if it can be called another policy. I've been asking you for weeks who's responsible for destroying millions of mouth masks. If you want the evidence of that, I have them with me. You might want to take a look at this: the order to the Van Gansewinkel firm to burn the mouth masks. I have it with me, Madam Prime Minister. You'd better listen. You're not answering. Is it fun? Meanwhile, everyone has to take a cut and seam course to choke their own mouth mask. In the 1990s we got an environmental box; now we don't even get a seafood box. You gave a press conference last Friday night with measures so confusing that a cat didn't find her boy in it. What you said on Friday night, I think it's the worst thing, you all denied when you were on TV on Sunday morning. Our shopkeepers are running out of water and they're still not sure when they're allowed to open their shop, maybe on May 11th. It is even so cynical that the garden centers have been open for weeks, but the little florist may be allowed to sell a flower the day after Mother's Day. Soon the schools will be able to open again, but one must already be a mathematics teacher to understand the classification of the classes. It is a Community agreement rather than an educational agreement. Our old folks stay locked up in the residential care centers, without any perspective. Mass testing is required, but there are not enough test kits. There's a massive check-up, but you won't find enough contact trackers. You promise clarification, but you bring darkness, Madam Prime Minister. Even the virologists contradict each other. The people are dying, there will be an end to the civic spirit, hence one question. When will you show leadership, when will you take concrete action and when will you give hope to the people?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u12	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, you have made decisions in the National Security Council that are different from those of the experts. We can discuss every decision infinity, but I do not think it is responsible for adding confusion. Citizens who have been particularly brave so far need clarity. We must succeed in this definity and fail to do so would be catastrophic. To do so, it is imperative to have all the necessary means to control the virus. The experts have listed a series of preconditions that must be met before the deconfination. This is your job and your responsibility! The aim is to protect, test from any doubt, trace the virus and isolate the carriers. Protect. The mask is still not available for everyone. You have not yet determined that the harbour was necessary in well-used places and much more widely than you have decided. You have not specified anything about availability for all those who will resume their work and especially their activity at the medical level. There is a lack of protective equipment. Test from any doubt. Hear what the general practitioners say today! It is not just a question of having a theoretical ability to test. It also involves having an effective, operational and functioning capability. Trace the virus. Prime Minister, you're organizing call centers, but this virus is extraordinarily fast. One cannot afford to dispense with a technological tool, provided of course that it is properly marked: anonymous, voluntary and decentralised. It's a real asset to give us a chance to be as fast as this virus. Finally, isolate the carriers of the virus. This is a major element that you did not explain at the press conference. Who's gonna say that? How are we going to isolate? Where are we going to isolate? Will it be a disease arrest? These are all issues that need to be resolved. On all these points, you're not ready. Will all these guarantees, yes or no, be put in place for the 4th of May next?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u13	Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, the exercise of your office began with the most serious crisis since the Second World War – a crisis whose human, social and economic consequences are dramatic. In your communication on cases, findings and measures, you have opted for transparency and truth, which cannot be filtered or manipulated. In our country, we don't manipulate! Many critics are being heard. We heard it again today. Political games are resumed; elections are again discussed; mutuals and unions are out of the woods. In short, it goes in every direction. Some criticisms are constructive and can help to improve the situation. Others, on the other hand, have no basis, or even are at the limit of lies. We are talking about a lack of consultation. Those who agree at the National Security Council or in Kern on Saturday morning change their minds on Mondays – sometimes, per interposed person. It's the wrong fight! Yesterday, today and tomorrow, the goal is the health of citizens and the human. We are opposed to economics and health. It should not be forgotten, however, that the re-starting of the economy also involves bringing back what makes people live, because they have to work for their needs to be met. Measures have been taken to limit the spread of the virus. They worked, but we cannot rejoice too quickly. Defining must be arranged step by step. It is therefore necessary for everyone to be responsible for their own safety. It is indeed up to every citizen to act, and to do so in consultation with the government, in order to work on it gradually. Prime Minister, can you recall the steps and advice that the public must follow? What about the tests, which are so essential for measuring the disease's evolution and for detecting it? Finally, since we do not live on an island, what can the European Union undertake with regard to border and traffic policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you all know me as a mild man. So I'll start with the good news. We are pleased that last week there was a prospect of economic restart. I know that certain people on the left have problems with that. By the way, I'm expecting coronapikets soon. We are on the side of the people who want to open their shop because their income source is dehydrated. We are on the side of the people who are concerned about whether their company will still exist after the lockdown and whether it has not gone bankrupt because of the circumstances. In short, we want the economic lockdown not to end in a knockdown. We therefore support it in this respect, and we have also put our sights on it. However, communicatively, that perspective drowned in a sea of unclearness. People still want to recognize their own logic in the measures taken. I hear Members asking for clarification here. That shouldn't really be necessary. We should be able to read these clarifications in the ministerial decision taken at last week's meeting. We have had to wait a long time for that decision, which is strange. That is why I have the following questions. How is it that the concretization takes so long and so the uncertainty can lead so many days of its own life? Why does the operational translation take so long? It is of course of the utmost importance that economic restart can take place in the most healthy conditions. What measures will be taken, for example, for all those who will have to return to work with SNCB? After all, we have received reports that very few measures have been taken in this area, which would be absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u15	Madam Prime Minister, the first condition of deconfining is the effective provision of the necessary equipment, medical masks, protective equipment for caregivers, and especially for general practitioners, sufficient tests, and the certainty that all actors are ready to collaborate. I am speaking to you, Mr De Backer: cloth masks are needed for the entire population, as you have committed yourself to providing, with the National Security Council. I regret, week after week, that this minimum material requirement has not been met. The second condition is that the social and human dimension of this crisis be taken into account. This applies to parents who have to work in the care of their children, those with the lowest incomes, those who no longer have access to their rights, those who are unable to do their work of mourning or who cannot visit those who are dear to them and who suffer from it. The group of experts you have appointed to accompany you made suggestions in this regard. Indeed, the questions deserve to be answered. The health aspects of the pandemic are essential. The economic dimensions are of equal concern to us, but we hope that the government will now also deal with the psychological and social consequences of this crisis with the same force. There is a great risk that many Belgians have lost "potato", morale, the will to fight and act, and that they will plunge into precariousness. We need to be careful about that. My questions are very simple, Madam Prime Minister. Why did you decide to postpone the National Security Council to be held this Friday? Why not hold it and decide on the social measures that are necessary and that are contained in the proposals of the expert group that you have appointed to prepare the deconfinement? When will these measures finally be taken to take into account the enormous inequalities between our citizens in the face of the pandemic?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, right from the beginning of the crisis, we had a priority: to limit and reduce the spread of the virus. The measures bear fruit since the reproductive rate of coronavirus is 0.79, which means that an average person contaminates less than one person. The pattern of hospitalizations also continues to flatten and we have avoided the main threat of saturation of our hospital capacity. The occupancy rate of intensive care units dedicated to VOCID-19 has in fact never exceeded 58% and is currently 36%. We also see a stabilization in the number of deaths in hospitals, and we all measure that each death represents a tremendous suffering for the families and relatives of the victims. We think about it every day. This development of the favourable situation was made possible thanks to the discipline of the vast majority of our citizens and the involvement of medical staff. Once again, as always, I thank them. The National Security Council, extended to the Prime Ministers, reached agreement last Friday on a roadmap based on the opinion of the Group of Experts in charge of the Exit Strategy (GEES). The communication following that National Security Council was criticised. We must listen to this criticism and accept it. We must take it into account in particular for the future. I would just like to point out that the exit strategy is a delicate and complex operation, with the whole functioning of our society to be reinvented while ensuring the health of our people. I would like to stress that the starting time of the press conference has never been announced. We have a habit in Belgium of announcing political decisions taken immediately, which is probably due to the fact that people talk about the decisions even if they have not yet been taken. The nuclear cabinet indeed met yesterday with the Prime Ministers of the Regions and the Communities and with the experts of the GEES. The experts have clarified that the current evolution of the epidemic makes it possible to activate the phase 1a of the exit plan as planned. The green light was given in view of the number of new hospitalisations per day, the growth rate of new hospitalisations, the number of beds available in intensive care, the availability of protective equipment, testing and tracing. The experts insisted that personal protection, testing and tracing aspects be further developed in the week of 4 May. In the long term, it is also intended to refine monitoring with the number of potentially ill COVID-19 patients to be reported by the general practitioners in order to allow for previous monitoring. Monitoring is essential because it determines the transition from one phase of the exit plan to another. I would remind you that, depending on the development of the health situation, we may have to take a step backwards. It is also possible, if necessary, to postpone the transition to a new phase. So on May 4th we enter phase 1a. In concrete terms, this means re-establishing the economic activity between professionals and companies and reopening the fabric and yarn stores. Telework remains the norm. Safety and distance at work must be respected. However, compensatory measures are allowed. I understand the anxiety that may surround the return to work. We must ensure that this recovery can be carried out safely, and that is why the Group of Ten has adopted a general guide to good practice, which is a reference for a gradual economic restart under safe and sound conditions for all. Approved by the social partners, this document is circulated among the joint committees within the sectors. Those who have already developed their own safety protocols will be able to complete them on the basis of this generic guide. Since these protocols will be concluded in the form of collective labour agreements, they will be applicable. The Social Inspectors of the Labour Welfare Control DG of the SPF Employment are responsible for informing and accompanying employers and workers and, in accordance with the Social Penal Code, ensuring compliance with the obligations in force in enterprises. Of course, beyond the specific measures to be adopted at sectoral and enterprise level on the basis of the guide to which I have just referred, the legislative arsenal protecting employees is still being applied. I would remind you that it is in everyone's interest to ensure that good practices are respected in order to avoid a renewed spread of the virus. It is in the interests of workers and employers. From 4 May, wearing foot-nose cover is mandatory in public transport for passengers from 12 years of age. It is also recommended in public areas or in the workplace if no safe distance can be guaranteed. All forms of protection of mouth masks or other alternatives to cover the mouth and nose, such as a scarf or a bandana, are also accepted. The strategy is to pool efforts to support the regions, which are competent to do so, and to ensure that each citizen is given free of charge at least one standardised substance mask covering the mouth and nose. To this end, the federal government will make available one mask in dust per person, and there are also 22 million dust filters, i.e. two per citizen, ordered for purchased or homemade masks. We continue to work on other measures, in addition to those already in place, which allow all Belgians to protect themselves quickly and widely. In view of the expectations of the people, it is indeed important, even if this is not our competence, that all policy levels continue to work on additional possibilities. Some imply that the economy would take precedence over the human in the deconfining strategy. This binary vision between the economy and the human is, for me, caricatural. Behind the shops, the companies called to open, there are men and women who want to break out of their four walls and resume an activity. Win their lives, too. I continue to believe that work can be a growth factor, even under difficult conditions. Besides, I know, and I understand, we all want to see our loved ones again. Me too. And we take that into account. I have heard the question about the paper leaked on the GEES strategy. That was a provisional text. Indeed, there was talk that ten family members could visit each other again. But the GEES have changed their minds. That's his right, too. The experts were of the opinion that this would give too large groups and that is not safe. The leaking of that document has given false hope to the people. I do regret that. I would remind you that there are already, before phase 1a, several ways of seeing one's loved ones. I know that's not enough. Of course that's not enough! But it's mandatory. That's how it is. We are in the situation we are in. It's really not a choice. I would like us to at least realize this, no matter what criticism we can make of this government. As a reminder, you can go to a person's home if you need to assist or visit an isolated person who cannot travel. This is possible from the beginning and fortunately, by the way! You can also, more recently, visit a parent in a nursing home, when all the security conditions are met. We can see that this is already the case for some rest homes in Brussels and Wallonia. And here too, good, by the way! You can also walk and exercise with a person, always the same, who doesn't live under your roof. And as of 4 May, this possibility will be extended to two people. Is that enough? Does that please us? Probably not. But, again, we are facing the VOCID-19 and he does not take gloves with us. I also remind you that we miss our parents. Of course we miss our parents! But we're not all equal in front of VOCID and we have to pay particular attention to the generation above us who, when affected by VOCID, develop the symptoms faster and harder. Protecting these people and other weaker people in our society is also our responsibility! Mr Gilkinet, you talked about social measures. There is indeed some in the GEES report. They were wide enough. They must be implemented. Minister Muylle and Minister Ducrame are discussing these social measures with the members of the GEES. And by the way, no, we didn't convene a National Security Council this week. As a result, the meeting could not have been cancelled either. Testing and tracing will indeed play an essential role in reducing containment measures. Its size will have a direct impact on our ability to reduce the risk of the virus rekindling. The rate of PCR testing has been greatly increased. The analysis confirms that we now carry out on average more than 15,000 tests a day. Our screening capacity is also higher and is 25,000 tests per day. For serological tests, they should be used to determine whether the person has already been in the presence of the virus and has developed antibodies. Here, too, 50,000 rapid tests were secured during the month of April. This means that laboratories have access to this volume of purchase. That's the meaning of the term "secured." The aim is to have 900,000 secure tests in May and 3 million in June. They will be distributed according to the recommendations of Sciensano. Testing is fundamentally related to tracing. Again, while tracing is a regional jurisdiction, the federal government will support efforts and that is quite normal. Tracing allows intervention in order to be able to diagnose patients who otherwise would not spontaneously or late for a test. Once again, the aim is to prevent possible transmission chains of the virus. Yesterday, at the Interministerial Conference on Public Health, a series of decisions were taken. The inter-federal committee "testing & follow-up of contacts" was officially launched on 24 April. The start-up phase for the follow-up of contacts will be launched on 4 May. Call centres are currently being installed and the people in charge of follow-up are being trained. Still others will be recruited by the federated entities since, again, it is their competence. The federal government, for its part, is finalizing the specific legal framework to ensure the protection of privacy, given the use of a data bank for call center. With regard to the development of an application, a bill regulating the development of such an instrument will soon be tabled in the House, at the request of the Regions, and it will again be up to the Regions to decide whether or not they want to use this possibility. I am confident that they will do so in consultation with the federal government, as we have decided to join forces in the fight against VOCID-19. As far as Europe is concerned, at the last European Council, several Member States and the Commission asked for recommendations for intra-European movements, taking into account the gradual lifting of travel restrictions by Member States. It is indeed desirable that there should be maximum cooperation in this area within the Schengen area and beyond. Belgium fully supports that request. We believe that the free movement of goods and services must be guaranteed. Travel restrictions for people must certainly be coordinated, but not lifted too early, so that we can continue to monitor the health situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u17	Thank you for your reply, Madam Prime Minister. The Liberals are saying here today that there is no contradiction between social and economic, because it is economical. The problem is that these sophisms of the Aldi do not work at all in practice, because in addition to economic life and work, most people, or indeed most people, still have a social life. That's what my question was about. We are in favour of people getting back to work on 4 May, but it must be possible to do so safely. It is a good thing that a guide has been worked out by the social dialogue, but the fight continues, because the patterns of the VBO now say that this guide is only a symbol guide, where something can be picked out. We ask that this guide be compulsory and that every company and every sector apply the guide in practice so that people can start working safely on 4 May and not fear when they go to work. This is the bet of 4 May and the take-up of the work: safe to get back to work and no symbol guides.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u18	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. But when we talk about deconfinity, we must always have health and safety in mind. So please, let's do things in order. Return people to work once you have made sure that the measures to protect them are properly applied within each company. And not the other way around. You say that the guide must be a reference and that companies must be inspired by it. Is that enough? I don't think so. This guide must be imposed on all sectors, not to annoy them, but to protect them, to protect workers and avoid carrying this virus, which has already killed far too much. Is it so difficult? I don't think so either. It's common sense. You say that work is a factor of development. Yeah, that's right. But without health, you will never have this fulfilling work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u19	Madam Prime Minister, thank you, even though you have not answered my questions about the steps of the deconfining plan at all. You are finally taking refuge behind the endorsement you have obtained in the Consultation Committee and in the GEES, except that, in doing so, you are absolutely not responding to the concerns of doctors who are on the ground every day and who are concerned about a second epidemic wave. You say you got a green light on the capacity of hospitals. But alongside the capacity of hospitals, there is also the capacity of health care personnel. Their mental and physical capacity, while they are now literally exhausted. You say you help the traders by allowing them to reopen their businesses. Except that I think if we go too fast today, finally, we're not going to do them a good service at all. That, on the contrary, it would be a very bad service to do to them that to force them finally to close the door of their trade because the wave of spread of the virus would again be facing us. As far as masks, tracing, testing are concerned, I can hear you being quite confident. Except that people do not need promises or hope, but guarantees and transparency. That's how we managed the containment. That is also how we will achieve deconfinity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u20	Madam Prime Minister, I am disappointed by your reply and a little bit by your attitude. You started by saying that you are open to criticism and that you are listening to it, but you will continue to do what you did last Friday, just to read the press release from the press conference. Week after week, you took the same attitude here in Parliament. I would like to say again, Madam Prime Minister, that you must not underestimate the criticism. If it bothers you that we ask questions and pass on people's questions, you should listen to the people themselves. I have stressed that this is a difficult balance and that the drawing up of the exit strategy is not easy. It's like string dancing: if one goes fast, then one falls, one goes too slow, then one falls too. One has to look in advance at how one can get across. I have the impression you're not doing the latter. Don't go over it too lightly. There is a great concern. It's not a story of entrepreneurs or employees, it's a story of everyone together, it's an en-en-story. I hope you will take the concerns a little more seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u21	First of all, Madam Prime Minister, you say you didn't make this decision on your own: "It's not just the MR who made it." I fully agree with you: the federated entities have accompanied the movement. It seems clear to me that the PS and Ecolo have approved this decision, but it does not make it any more digestive for the population. This little political game has to stop. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u22	Mr. President, do you hear that? It's already starting! Then, Madam Prime Minister, you lie by omission. In your speech, you said that the rules of distancing should be applied in companies. But you know that's not true! The major decision that was taken on Friday was that there would no longer be a requirement for results, but only a requirement for resources. Social inspectors, ladies and gentlemen, are disarmed by visiting companies. They will no longer be able to demand an obligation to produce results. This is the major decision that has been taken, and I ask you to review it and mandate our social inspectors to check that the 50-foot mark is respected in companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u23	Madam Prime Minister, I was surprised to hear you say that tracing will be extended from 4 May and that there will be a federal legal framework. After all, 4 May is already in five days' time and my colleagues in the hemisphere and I have not seen anything of that legal framework. I'm worried. We have seen the benefits of our country having four or five ministers in mouth masks. The last thing we need is four or five more ministers of tracing. I repeat, our country cannot afford a false start anymore. The exit strategy will stand or fall with the transparent and binding way in which the government communicates about the measures. I'm counting on you for that, Madam Prime Minister. Make it clear and ensure coordination.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u24	Madam Prime Minister, I am pleased to hear that there has been European consultation, because we hear far too little about this. I think Europe is far too absent. I would like to stress once again how important we think it is that we discuss border policy with European colleagues and not just tourism and family visits. There is also no clarity about work-related travel. Already there are long traffic jams. I work a lot in the Netherlands myself. What will we do when the economy starts up again? What happens to the seasonal workers who are here for a long time? In principle, they have to be quarantined for two weeks. If this does not apply to all European countries, we will be in trouble. Then they will choose to take flower bulbs out of the Netherlands and leave the fruit hanging from the trees here. In this respect, too, we need a coordinated and very clear approach. We are counting on you to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u25	I take this opportunity to say that the Prime Minister has committed himself to debriefing on the recent European summit next week in the European Affairs Advisory Committee. These and other concerns can be raised in Parliament at that time. I give the floor to Mrs Pas for her reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u26	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, you continue to follow the facts. After the shortage of medical masks for healthcare professionals, it appears that you are not now able to deliver a quality mask to every citizen in good time and for the self-imposed deadline. It is a sign of incompetence that you have to count on the home of the citizens for this important pillar of your exit strategy, which is the production of these millions of fabric masks. You expect the citizen to obey all measures, but as a government you fail and fail to fulfil the main core task of protecting the population. Mass testing, which is also essential for a good exit strategy, is lacking until today. In this country more gas fines were already handed out than citizens were tested. Meanwhile, you continue to persist in confusing and conflicting communication. Madam Prime Minister, the citizen deserves much better.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u27	Mr President, Prime Minister, I did not expect an answer to the question of who is responsible for destroying the masks. However, you have an enormous responsibility. No matter how you interpret the statistics, what you like to do, we remain world champion in the number of deaths per 100,000 inhabitants. In the second statistics, that is, the excess mortality, we, together with England, are also world champions in the making. Madam Prime Minister, we do not have good health care without a good economy. That economy has to be paid for. People are mortified because they're tired of false hope. The shopkeepers are tired of false hopes, too. You are setting the date of 11 May 2020. Will it be May 11th or not? Are the beaches opening or not? Mrs Goedele Liekens, I invite you to the coast with open arms, preferably tomorrow, but if possible, on 18 May 2020. Madam Prime Minister, listen carefully. You can decide on Friday to give all people fresh air, either in the forest or at the beach. I'm waiting for your answer on Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u28	Madam Prime Minister, every citizen can act, at his level, with the barrier measures, but also with the wearing of the mask. By getting it all, everyone wins. But governments should not blame the population for a resurgence of the disease. Indeed, the keys and guarantees of success are known. They are in the hands of the different governments: to protect, to test from any doubt, to trace and to isolate the new carriers of the virus. However, some of these measures are not implemented, others are not. We must succeed in this definity. It is therefore up to the various governments to act and catch up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u29	Prime Minister, we are all committed to health. This is certainly also the case with the government, as it is responsible for this. It takes difficult, structured, progressive steps to try to restart the economy. But there is no question of health against the economy. On the other hand, for some, it is a matter of politics rather than economy. Some do politics with everything. When we look at the situation, we realize, Madam Prime Minister, that there is absolutely no interest in a government being put in place. For as long as there is no government, we can spend wrongly and through. We have a budget hole; if the latter is a little bigger, it's not very serious! It is imperative that we continue to work seriously. We must stop doing politics; we must put health first and reboot our economy for our SMEs and other businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u30	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, first a statement. A few weeks ago, a large majority here expressed confidence in your government. That idylle was short, because if this is trust, if I hear these questions, then I wonder what mistrust would look like. In the meantime, there is still no ministerial decision, and I regret that. So people are still hungry for practical implementation. You have not been able to remove my concern that SNCB is not ready and has not taken any measures to secure transport. I'm just reading a communication from the Crisis Centre that people should use the train if they don't have their own transport. How can one control such a thing? This is a good example of the impossibility of many measures. The basis of support exists only when the rules are clear. People want to follow the rules, but only when the logic of those rules can be followed, and that lacks too much.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u31	Prime Minister, I concede, it is easier to confide than to unconfin. You are not exercising the most obvious political function today. You are alone in taking a decision that has been taken with the Ministers-Presidents of the Regions. I also appreciate a certain ability to question you. I hope you've heard our message. In the report of the experts whom you yourself have appointed, there is an emphasis on the psychosocial dimension of this crisis, which has so far not been sufficiently taken into account. You tell us that you have given Mrs Muylle and Mr Ducarme the task of putting proposals on the table. We also have them and they are on the agenda of Parliament's committees. I ask you to achieve a better performance obligation than what you have done with regard to supplies of equipment. We will then be partners in the solutions to get everyone out of this crisis, with attention for the most fragile, who have been forgotten so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u32	Mr President, Minister, we all know who the corona heroes are: caretakers, nurses, doctors, shopkeepers, transporters, bus drivers, restaurateurs, the many employees and self-employed who have continued to work throughout this crisis and continue to work in these difficult circumstances. They knock overtime and work their asses off to keep our society running at the moment. Well, those corona heroes won't get a corona premium. However, on 1 April, you proposed granting a corona premium to workers who remained in work in difficult circumstances. There was talk of a bonus of up to EUR 1,000, without paying social charges or taxes, and additional holidays would be granted to these workers. A premium would also be allocated to the care sector, but it may also fall into the water. We have to know that this is the fault of the Länder. The federal government makes it easy to get rid of it by passing it on to the Communities. Workers in the critical sectors are now given the opportunity to perform 220 voluntary overtime, but only 120 voluntary overtime hours are exempted from the overtime allowance. That is why I have the following questions for you, Minister. Why was the corona premium removed? Does the government think of compensation for those who stayed at work and had to perform much more than usual? What about the bonus for the healthcare sector? Why are not all 220 voluntary overtime exempted? Finally, since, for example, there is already a shortage in the healthcare sector and workers probably want to get away from it, at the end of June seems to me to be rather short. Is there any thought about extending that deadline?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u33	Mrs Samyn, thank you for your question. It is appropriate to pay tribute, on the eve of 1 May, to all those who have worked very hard, both in healthcare and beyond, to help us deal with the emergency situation. If the situation is encouraging today, it is thanks to those who give the best of themselves besides the sick bed, but often also thanks to those who provide support for everyone. I think I can express our very deep appreciation for everyone on behalf of the whole House. Let me now turn to the questions that have been asked. As Minister of Finance, it is my power to defiscalise a premium, for example, if one were to grant it. I would like to make it quite clear that I am certainly prepared to withdraw it from taxation in an agreement on such a premium. You also asked a question about overtime. As you pointed out, this was discussed yesterday in the Finance Committee. Today, a proposal is on the table to implement this in the critical sectors. You are well aware that tax provisions cannot be implemented within the framework of the special powers. Parliament has the final say in this. You asked why this is limited to a number of hours. Parliament can continue to do so autonomously. I would also like to refer to what Mr De Block said yesterday in committee: something must be done for people who work in hospitals. Not only in hospitals, but also in residential care centres and in home care. That's not part of the federal jurisdiction. I would like to confirm here that that question is being considered by the federal government. We need to look at this question in sufficiently broad terms: there are different ways of expressing our support towards those who work in health care. To conclude, at a time like this, it is clear that we must take care of each other, but that we must take particular care of those who take care of us in difficult times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u34	Thank you, Minister. I hope that these measures will be implemented. It is not really understandable that measures will be announced, which will then be withdrawn. All those who have now worked their butts off and run the economy are rightly referred to as the heroes of the war against the coronavirus. Then let's reward them. It cannot be the intention that workers who have worked massive overtime and are on more than 120 voluntary overtime should be punished at the end of the journey by having to pay higher taxes. Exceptional times deserve exceptional measures. Many of our corona heroes now count on a corona premium of 1,000 euros. A lot of our corona heroes count on extra vacation days. A lot of our corona heroes count on recognition. Don't push it, but have the courage to take measures that have been announced.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u35	I don't see Secretary De Block in the room. I will then first deal with the questions for Minister Bellot, with your permission colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u36	Mr President, Minister, if the corona measures are relaxed step by step in the coming weeks, more and more people will want to move to work, shop or school. I therefore welcome the fact that, as from Monday 4 May, some of SNCB's entire train supply will be available. I actually found it regrettable last Thursday that Prime Minister Wilmès advised us to avoid the train and preferably take the car. We're all gonna get stuck again in no time. You must therefore guarantee that those who take the train, both staff and travellers, can do so in a healthy way. Health must be adequately protected. I see two major challenges in this respect. Firstly, from Monday, mouth masks are mandatory for people over 12 years of age taking public transport. Not everyone, however, already has a mask like this. I read on a number of websites that SNCB will sell mouth masks in 80 stations. Is that message correct? Who's going to check if travellers are protecting their faces enough? How will that be maintained? A second perhaps even greater challenge is social distancing. Distance has been really rammed into the population in recent weeks and it remains a general rule in public life. I was therefore surprised two weeks ago that Mrs Dutordoir said in an interview that it would not be possible to guarantee the necessary distance if the weather was to become more crowded on the train. That would, of course, be unacceptable and I would ask for creativity in this area. Places on the platforms and trains are marked abroad. In addition, the first class is opened up and works with plexiglass walls. If necessary, the train supply will be increased. How are you going to ensure that anyone who wants to take the train from Monday can count on this to happen safely?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u37	Over the past few weeks there have been hurray reports about, among other things, the situation on our roads, about our mobility, about the pure air and about the many teleworking and people were already looking forward to it becoming structural. But when I came to Brussels this afternoon with the car, I usually do so by train, but the limited train supply threw soot in the food, after twenty minutes I was already in traffic. Even on a sunny Thursday afternoon with an economy at half power and many people working at home, with signs above the road indicating no unnecessary movements, I was in traffic on the Antwerp ring. I would just like to point out that we will undoubtedly be faced with busy roads again very soon. In any case, if at such a time it is called upon not to take public transport as far as possible, I think there is a problem, both in terms of our mobility and in terms of our public transport companies, which are being asked to roll out a full offer again. A lot will have to do with trust. I fear that, despite the obligation to walk on the train with mouth masks or scarves, the confidence to take public transport will be very small and therefore its use will be very low next week. It is therefore necessary to create public confidence that public transport can be used safely. But I miss that today. There is no confidence at all, on the contrary, there is a call not to take public transport. However, public transport can be carried out safely, but this requires measures which must also be enforced. For example, I do not hear today about the disinfection of door hinges. I hear very little about making mouth masks available. In some stations there would be vending machines. I see they are distributed in other countries in the stations. Minister, I think there are a lot of challenges to rebuild confidence in public transport step by step. There is an important task for you. Otherwise, our mobility will be stalled and our public transport companies will face financial problems. That can't be the intention. So my question is clear: how will you restore confidence in the train?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, the rail sector is an important economic sector, which is not immune to the corona crisis and has had to adapt quickly to ensure the safety of everyone. The continuity of rail transport activities is vital. That is why, from 23 March onwards, we have carried out a train service of national interest and have guaranteed maximum freight traffic. First of all, I would like to express my thanks to all the railway staff for their efforts. At the meeting of the National Security Council on 24 April it was decided, in consultation and consultation with all the Länder, to proceed from 4 May to the first phase of the exit from the lockdown. Although teleworking remains the norm, it was decided to re-establish a maximum number of public transport services, including trains. In order to meet the social distancing requirements and the travel needs of the passengers, we will ensure maximum availability of trains and their maximum composition. Passengers can consult the train offer on the SNCB website as of 1 May. Passengers who can only take the train will also be advised to spread their journeys and preferably travel in the off-peak hours. It's coffee-diving to see how many passengers will use the train. Of course, that will be monitored continuously. Belgium is one of the first countries to return to the almost normal supply situation. The situation we are experiencing requires measures to protect both passengers and workers. As the occupation of trains will increase, social distancing, which remains a general recommendation, will become more difficult. It was therefore decided that all employees and travellers over the age of 12 would be required to wear a mouth nose mask or other mouth nose protection, both at the station and on the platform and on the train. The police and Securail will check on that. Comprehensive communication on this is being set up. Every SNCB employee will be provided with appropriate protective equipment. Additional cleaning will also be provided in the trains, in the stations and in the buildings. So we have put everything in place to maximize our train supply from 4 May in the most optimal conditions. That will require everyone's cooperation. I therefore call for civilism and individual and collective responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u39	To the users of the speech rib, I give the tip that the microphone on your right is of slightly better quality. Talking too short in the microphone, however, gives a distortion of the sound at both microphones. Mr Vandenbroucke, you have the floor for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say it's looking at coffee, but that's not true, of course. We know that the country will slowly recover in the coming weeks. We really must do everything we can to prevent us from being stuck in traffic jams again, as before the corona crisis. If there's anything people haven't missed in the last few weeks, it's the traffic jams. I am therefore counting on you, together with SNCB, to ensure that everyone has a guarantee that they can take the train safely. Of course, it will become more crowded on a number of train lines and at a number of times. That will be no different in the coming weeks than before the corona crisis. Well, there is only one simple but good solution to this: increasing capacity. You must have more trains running so that people are sure that the train is a perfect alternative to the car.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u41	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply and for the elements we have heard in recent days. We'll be driving fast for the next few weeks. Trust in public transport will have to be built up very slowly. Work will have to be done on this. In this sense, it makes little sense to say now that passengers who can't do otherwise have to take the train. I don't think this is the way to build trust. On the contrary, making masks available or the possibility of cleaning hands on the train will be important conditions for improving that feeling of safety and increasing confidence in public transport. There's still a lot of work on the shelf. That will be the only way to keep our mobility running. If 900,000 train journeys are to be carried out on the road every day, then we have a big problem. Then we don't have morning and evening pits anymore, but then the whole country stops all day and that can't be the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u42	Minister, given our respective responsibilities, we are all – as parliamentarians and field agents – involved in the fight against coronavirus. However, as local elected officials, we also remain attentive and permeable to other issues that also speed up people's lives and are not without worrying or disturbing them. The news is rich and, this week, was emulated by a decision, in this case the annulment by the Constitutional Court of the Act on Associative Work. Is that a surprise? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Everyone who has been able to follow this file since the start knew that he was in a particularly poor position. The fate of this measure, defended by the previous government – or should I say: by the same government, but with another prime minister – was inscribed in the stars. We had denounced it, in particular because of the risks of discrimination and social dumping against several independents and non-market sectors (care for children and persons with disabilities, care for the elderly, etc.).). Moreover, this provision would reduce the financing of social security. In short, these are the reasons why we pulled the alarm bell and told you that it was a bad text. At the time, we asked you to be able to preserve the generosity of the principle for the cultural and sports sectors, because it was meaningful. Today, they are both struck as collateral victims of this crisis and now find themselves as the turkeys of the farce, to whom a double penalty is imposed. The first is that they believed in what you sold them. The second is that now they disappoint and have to reverse. However, as a result of these losses, sports clubs had managed to settle cases of work in the dark and to move towards a virtuous reorganization. They will now have to go back to their measures, while their activities are interrupted and the money is no longer coming back! [[...]] My question is therefore simple, Madam Minister: what lessons do you intend to learn from this cancellation – expected – by the Constitutional Court? How are you going to put the pot back on fire? Is it at least possible to appropriately target the sports and cultural sectors, who are in great need of them and where the CDH continues to work?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u43	I give the floor to Mrs Lanjri on the same subject with a question coming from the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u44	Madam Minister, we discussed for a long time in 2018 the arrangements for unpaid additional income, which allowed people to earn up to EUR 6.340 untaxed for association work, for private jobs and for the so-called recognised sharing platforms. The Constitutional Court annulled this scheme last week because it considered that there was discrimination. The same activities are carried out, on the one hand, by employees or self-employed persons who contribute fully to social security and taxation and who are subject to labour law and, on the other hand, by people who can earn no tax at all without having to comply with these rules. Thus, according to the Constitutional Court, there is a form of discrimination that needs to be addressed. Moreover, the Constitutional Court does not consider this to be a solution to counter so-called undeclared work. The Constitutional Court gives us the time until 31 December of this year. By then, there must certainly be another solution. Madam Secretary, how will you deal with this destruction? What adjustments do you think should be made? Can you still make those adjustments? Or should you move it to another government or Parliament? Your Flemish colleague from Sport announced yesterday that he would already offer a solution to the work of association in sport. He said he'd contact you. Has that happened yet? What did you guys agree to? Are there solutions for the work of association in sport? Could this possibly be extended?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u45	I'll give the floor to Secretary De Block. Can you come here for the answer? It's better for the camera. Otherwise you'll have to zoom in on your back.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u46	Mr. Chairman, I thought there were cameras everywhere. Colleagues, the system of unpaid income was indeed destroyed by the Constitutional Court. This is particularly unfortunate for those who have rightly taken advantage of it. This is unfortunate for the sport sector – which uses this 70% system – but also for the cultural sector and for those who could get assistance at a reasonable price through citizen-to-citizen services. One quarter of the services provided in this system of citizen-to-citizen services relate to assistance and assistance to persons in need of care. It's twice as much as small maintenance. The current scheme will apply until 31 December 2020. There is the least discrimination, particularly for the sports sector, the people in need and the cultural sector. There may be a need for a new regulation so that these people do not remain in the cold. This regulation must be worked out, either by a new government, but it is coffee-coffee-coffee-coffee-coffee-coffee-coffee-coffee-coffee-coffee-coffee-coffee-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed-cuffed by 30 December, and then there is the effect, or this Chamber, Mrs Lanjri. I am glad that my Flemish fellow Minister for Sport will contact me. I'll recognize his number when he calls me, but that hasn't happened so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u47	Mr. Prévot, you have a half-minute left, since you've taken a little time off.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u48	Madam Minister, I thank you for these answers, although we understand that the more concrete answers are still to come, by hypothetical new legislation at the initiative of parliamentarians or by an equally hypothetical future government. I'm sorry. If the cultural sector deserves to be fully supported at this time, the sports sector, through this 500 euros per month defied – without any contribution for voluntary workers, self-employed workers or pensioners – was probably one of the biggest beneficiaries, which had actually put order and supported these clubs which, themselves today, are drawing language. Minister, therefore, I can only urge you not to wait by handing over the hot potato to a future government. Take the initiative! We are willing to work with you – the CD&V had also drawn attention to the issue at the time – so that we can move forward and support these outreach aids that are very useful on the ground and in the community sector that is dear to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u49	The political family gradually recovers thanks to culture!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u50	Madam Minister, in the previous legislature, we discussed this piece of legislation for a very long time in the Committee on Social Affairs, held hearings and even nightly meetings. Even then, we thought that there was a risk of the law being destroyed, which is what has now happened. On the other hand, we have to note that many people make use of the scheme. We think it is particularly important that a solution be found for the association work, for the teachers of school leaving, for the youth trainers, for the conductor of the youth choir. We will take initiatives for this ourselves, and I hope that we will get out of this together here in Parliament, because we need to find a solution by 31 December. If you do not know whether we will have a government by then, then we should be well prepared and try to solve at least the problem mentioned. Perhaps the N-VA colleagues should give your number to the Minister of Sport, because you have apparently not been able to find it yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u51	I hope we can expect heavy telephone traffic in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u52	Mr President, Minister, we know that the choice of physical tracing or through an application, in addition to screening, is a regional competence. According to our information, during your work within the Task Force, approximately 72 applications were proposed and a dozen were retained in mid-April. However, on Thursday, 23 April, it appears that a contact tracing application was terminated. You told us that there would be no choice of a federal application and that you would hand over to the Regions, for lack of agreement on a common strategy under the auspices of the federal government. However, you continue to prepare an ad hoc legal framework for independent applications that could be launched, so that they meet the criteria issued by the Federal, the Regions and the Data Protection Authority (DPA). We have just received the ODA opinion on your draft royal decree. So we could end up with several contact tracing applications within a few weeks, different applications by Regions, or different by country, or even with none of this. The multiplication of applications probably does not meet the need for interoperability, and ODA advises a labeled application. Minister, can you give us concrete information on the current situation? Given that the federated entities so far favour manual tracing even through a market for services, how could this tracing be best framed in relation to privacy? Will this be taken into account in your bill? We have foreseen this in amendments that we have tabled on the motion for a resolution currently under consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u53	Mrs Gilson, you have to close.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u54	In its opinion, the Autorité insists on the guarantees to be imposed on agents of call (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u55	Mr President, Mrs Gilson, I would like to recall the message sent by the Prime Minister that the backbone of the testing and tracing strategy is the researchers who fall within the competence of the Regions. The Government is therefore working with the federated entities to implement an inter-federal committee to coordinate the strategy put in place. There is, first of all, testing which is, of course, necessary. On 15 April, there were over 10,000 tests per day and capacity is still improving. It will also be necessary to work on Monday with the general practitioners who, following the enlargement of the criteria and with the aim of increasing the number of people tested, are now competent to carry out these tests. I would like to thank them for their work and stress that we are in discussion with them so that we can provide them with the necessary material. This is an important element. Then there is the tracing which falls within the competence of the Regions. We will work with the call centers that form the backbone of our strategy since we do not currently have the necessary technological application. It is important that as soon as a person develops VOCID or influenza symptoms, he or she contact his or her general practitioner by telephone, who will decide whether to test it. To return to call centres, the Regions are making every effort to recruit and train the necessary staff. The federal government will also make available some of its technology to these call centres. It is also developing the framework of databases in order to offer full privacy guarantees. Finally, there is also technological application. As I have already said, a draft resolution has been tabled in Parliament on this subject. I await the debate and the vote on this draft resolution. We will take into account any comments that have been made to introduce a bill and to discuss with you, in a transparent manner, the criteria for this application. This will allow us to move forward on the basis of the testing and tracing pillars.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answer and for the work you have done. We are aware that measures to combat this pandemic must be complementary. An application with all the necessary precautions for the protection of privacy seems particularly useful to me, since healthy asymptomatic carriers are contagious and transmit VOCID-19. It is therefore essential to stop the transmission chain as upstream as possible. However, conventional manual tracing does not meet this requirement. Finally, I thank you for considering that Parliament is not only consulted on the form and that we are working together on this subject. I would add that the Regions obviously have to shoulder their responsibilities. We will continue to pay attention to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u57	Mr President, Minister, there are a lot of e-mails and phone calls from anxious citizens who are in the system of temporary unemployment and are still waiting for their payments to be made in March 2020. These are always workers who have submitted their application to the Emergency Cash Fund for Unemployment Benefits. We also hear that they call in vain and upload their files several times. For many, this is a poignant situation. On 21 April 2020, more than 1.3 million workers had applied for temporary unemployment, which is, of course, unseen. So we certainly understand that a number of things are slowing down, despite the hard work currently being done by the RVA and the other payout institutions. Nevertheless, it is striking that the problems are mainly in the case of the Auxiliaries. The Auxiliary Cash for Unemployment Benefits is there for workers who choose not to go to a trade union to apply for unemployment benefits. Of course, they deserve to be treated as quickly as they are and as quickly as all other workers. That's why I have some questions for you. How is it that there is more delay in the Auxiliary Cash Office than in the other payout institutions, such as the trade unions? What is the cause of the delay? On 22 April 2020, we read in the newspaper that 85 to 90% of the files were handled. Do those numbers make sense? What is the current state of affairs? When can the workers who are still waiting for their benefit for the month of March 2020 expect their payment? Will payments of benefits be smoother for the month of April 2020? Will it be possible to pay them at the beginning of May 2020? What action is the Auxiliaries taking to speed up payment in the coming months?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, for Mrs Tania De Jonge it was her first speech in our assembly, for which I would like to congratulate her warmly. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u59	Madam Secretary, today large parts of our economy are still at a standstill. That has been the case for almost a month and a half. It is therefore good and important that our economy can be supported, including through the temporary unemployment system, so that workers can still retain their jobs and companies can immediately rely on their experienced staff after the lockdown. It is also a good thing that, in the context of the corona crisis, there is a relaxation of the temporary unemployment scheme, although it has soon been shown that there are significant differences in the rate of payout of replacement income. If you are not a member of a trade union, you can go to a government institution, the unemployment benefit fund, but it has been waiting a long time for the benefits to be paid. I have already spoken to you about this at the beginning of April to play briefly, but it is now at the end of April and we note that nothing has actually changed. It is still the case that on average it is much longer waiting for payment by the Auxiliaries than for a payout by any union. Madam Secretary, let it be clear that this really is not possible. I've already said that at the beginning of this month. Those who choose not to join a trade union should also be able to pay their invoices on time. Because the government apparently fails to take care of its business, today, at the end of April, there are still thousands of temporary unemployed waiting fruitlessly for their money for the month of March. A cynical game is actually going on here, because it is the trade unions themselves who manage the aid cash. It is clear, therefore, from an objective point of view, that these trade unions actually benefit from the fact that the aid fund is not working too well, so that they can still convince the unemployed to join the trade union in exchange for a faster payment of unemployment benefit. It is very cynical that this is happening in the face of people who will not be able to work, which is why I have three questions, Madam Secretary. What is your message to the thousands of people you keep waiting for so long? What are you going to do for the people who are in financial trouble, because they have to wait so long for the money they are entitled to? How long are you going to give the unions free rein in the Auxiliaries?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u60	Madam Minister, in this situation of health crisis, there are more than a million people who are in temporary unemployment. For many of them, this was the first time they had to introduce a file. This has a major impact on the workload of the various social benefit payment institutions. The FGTB had also announced on the TV show De Zevende Dag that at some point it even received more than 60 requests per minute. The workers in these various payment institutions are obviously doing their best to process these requests over time, but the feedback from the CAPAC field indicates that the workers would be overwhelmed with work. All requests that are not processed on time have a direct impact on thousands of Belgians who are deprived of their income. Many of them find themselves in a bad position because CAPAC is overcrowded. Minister, of the total claims for allowances, how many have been paid at this time? What is the average time between application and payment of the allowance? What is the current percentage of absenteeism among CAPAC staff? In addition, 120 other public service officials came to lend a hand. Is that enough, in your opinion? Finally, do you see any other opportunities to reduce the current workload?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u61	Minister, the number of citizens currently in temporary unemployment is about 1.3 million. With the National Security Council's de-confinination plan, this figure is expected to decrease gradually. Early encouraging signs were highlighted by the Economic Risk Management Group (ERMG) in its latest report. We all hope that our economic machine, the engine of our solidarity system, will be able to revive itself as quickly as possible and in a full manner. Nevertheless, all these temporary unemployed persons have received, and for some, will still receive, their federal government allowances through regular payment agencies, namely the Auxiliary Unemployment Benefit Payment Fund (CAPAC) or trade union organizations. All these organizations appear to be lagging behind in the payment of allowances. Far be it from me to blame them! This delay is quite understandable in view of the exceptional period we are experiencing at present. However, we are at the end of April and it appears that some March allowances have not yet been paid. That is why I would have liked some clarification from you on this situation. The payment of unemployment benefits within a reasonable period of time is essential for our citizens, so as not to fall into a negative spiral of late payment, as I said to you a few weeks ago. Minister, CAPAC has received the assistance of 120 public servants to deal with the huge influx of demands. Can you now give us an idea of the increase in the number of unemployed people covered by the structure and tell us what this represents as a percentage of all current temporary unemployed people? Are the CAPAC and the unions up to date in their payments? If not, could you tell us how many workers have still not received their unemployment benefits and when the problem will finally be solved? Will union organizations and CAPAC be able to meet the deadline for April?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u62	Madam Minister, on 7 April 2020 I already submitted a written question on the delay in the processing of the files at the Auxiliary Cash Office for unemployment benefits. In the topical debate on 8 April 2020, you said that there is indeed a delay in the processing of the files at the Auxiliaries, because the affected workers who are arriving there are not syndicated and have never been in temporary unemployment. These files require more administrative work and apparently the procedure is not so well known at the Auxiliaries. Three weeks ago, you hoped that the vast majority of people would receive their benefit for the month of March within a number of days. We are now three weeks away and apparently there is still a considerable work deficit at the Hulpkas. People are still waiting for benefits for the month of March. Also, several files would not be in order. In certain cases, the amounts paid are not correct. There are also complaints about accessibility. Apparently, the Hulpkas is unavailable for days and is referred to an online form. Madam Secretary, what is the delay now? How many people are still waiting for a benefit for the month of March? What is the forecast for the month of April? Will this be paid on time? What internal measures has the Auxiliaries taken to deal with the files as soon as possible? Does the Auxiliaries have sufficient staff to cope with the abundance of questions? Has the service been assigned additional staff in the context of the flexible deployment of government staff during the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u63	Colleagues, as you know, COOVID-19 has ensured that more than one million workers are temporarily unemployed. For many of them, as mentioned in the question, it is the first time they have been faced with temporary unemployment, but for many employers it is also the first time that they have been confronted with temporary unemployment and with the application procedure associated with it. Many of these workers are not members of a trade union and have submitted a file to the Auxiliaries. To date, CAPAC has received approximately 286,000 temporary unemployment cases for March, compared to an average of 5,000 cases per month. The Auxiliary Fund received more than 25,000 telephone calls per day and more than 200,000 e-mails. The Auxiliary Cash usually has a market share of 12.5 % of the files, whereas it is now 28 %. Reference is made to the answers I gave at the beginning of April. That is true, but I have to say that on 14 April, two weeks away in April, the employers had still not provided any benefits for their employees for 16% of the March dossiers. If we don't have performance, we can't afford it. It's about over 45,000 files. On 23 April, three weeks away in April, there were still more than 5.5 %. More than 15,000 files have not yet given rise to performance. Even last week, after a second time last week, I personally intervened, an e-mail had been sent to all the persons for whom a declaration had been submitted, but still no benefits, we had to establish that for 4,000 files employers did not submit any benefits for the month of March. We do our best, but if we don't have performance, we can't afford it. Of the 286,000 files, we can't handle 21,000. For 15,000 of these, applications have been submitted by employers, but there are simply no benefits. This means that employers have put their staff in temporary unemployment, while they simply were not temporarily unemployed. In addition, we have 6,000 files double. This means that employees first turned to the Auxiliairekas and then to another payout cash, which means that the Auxiliairekas does not have to make a payment. Most of the benefits for the month of March, which were paid after mid-April, relate to cases where there were problems. I personally had a lot of angry people on the phone who insisted that the performance was certain and that their files were in order, while afterwards when I asked individually about the matter, it turned out that there were errors in relation to the identification data such as the date of birth or the account number, which prevented us from paying out. The Auxiliaries today handles 2,400 files in a manual manner and contacts individual employees. As I said, there was also a global mailing. Clear information is also provided on the website. Through the Special Federal Forces, 154 staff members provided support to the Auxiliary Fund, mainly for the coding of application files. The current lead time is three to four days for an online application and ten days for a paper application, because additional elements need to be checked and passed on. For Monday's 4,000 files, we've already paid for it. With the exception of a few individual files, in which we lack data, we believe that we have processed the whole of the March dossiers. It is easier for the month of April, because we know the files by now. Employers now also know that performance needs to be motivated. At the beginning of this week, for the month of April, 100 000 payments have already been made automatically in cases for which employers had provided benefits. So there is plenty of work to be done on the payments for April, while tomorrow a new month begins. Mrs. Samyn asked if any mistakes were made with the supplement. The supplement of 5.63 euros is not paid together with the benefit, but today separately to the whole group of 286.000 people. In other words, they will receive an additional EUR 5.63 today. For the month of April the supplement will be paid automatically with the benefit itself. I understand that this is a huge challenge for the workers and employers concerned as well as for the administration to properly submit and process all files at this particular time. For more than 90% of the files, everything went smoothly. I am therefore grateful for the efforts made by employers, employees and my administration. I hope that many problems have been solved today thanks to all the efforts. If you have any business, pass it on. I am convinced that there will be smooth payments from April onwards. We have 1.3 million applications or more for people in temporary unemployment. I think great work has been done. A lot of people got paid very quickly. You should know that we have never known such situations until today. Normally there are 400,000 unemployed, now 1.3 million. There was a lot of hard work. There were problems, we solved them, we're still working on them every day, by the way. I am pleased to see where we stand today, with the solutions provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u64	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I'm very happy to hear that a lot of catching up has happened. I would like to add three more important aspects. There are people who absolutely do not choose to turn to a trade union and they also deserve equal treatment. If there are capacity problems then, it is good that there are additional staff. There are creative ways to solve this, such as, for example, interim staff who are currently out of work or officials who are less busy due to the crisis and who may be able to assist the Aid Cash. It is not unimportant to repeat that there have been some files left, of which the people have received a notification. Well, that's too bad, but I'm glad we can report those files to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u65	Madam Secretary, your answer is actually hallucinating. I asked you what message you have for the people who have not seen a euro for a month and a half while they are entitled to it. You closed your reply by saying that you are actually satisfied with the way things have been up to now. Those people have been on dry seed for a month and a half, because they often consciously choose not to join a union. I would like to point out that the right to unite or not to unite is a fundamental right. Those people are paying a very high price for that now, and you are satisfied. I heard you very well, you're satisfied that a government agency makes people wait six weeks for their money. Last week, you were shot into action, in the fourth week of April, because you found that a number of files from March might not be okay after all. So that's your message to these people. I also asked you how much longer you will allow the trade unions to remain in your government institution. Apparently, that is not a problem for you. That is a problem for us, and we will therefore put forward a proposal to put a stop to it. It is a living shame that you are satisfied with the fact that people who choose not to join the union have to wait six weeks for money to which they are entitled and that they also need it desperately.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u66	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'll make a line in three steps. First of all, I would like to point out that social security has been invented by workers. And, still today, it is paid by all workers. It was obtained thanks to the struggle. Today, the right-wing political groups that are attacking have no lesson to teach us about this. In fact, they would do better to be silent because, if the workers had not fought against their vision of society, today we would still live as in Germinal's time. For those who are shouting at the scandal of privileges and discrimination, I would like to point out that workers who decide to unionize pay a contribution which they put in a common pot. Furthermore, it has been shown that the payment of family allowances organized by trade unions is cheaper for the State and even more efficient. We'd better learn from them in this time of crisis. They have 100 years of experience in organising solidarity in the world of work and this year they proudly celebrated 75 years of social security. Finally, as far as CAPAC is concerned, since 2004, we have gone from (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u67	I'm sorry, Mrs. Moscufo. The speaking time for the reply is one minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u68	Minister, thank you for your answers. Given the number of temporary unemployed currently registered and the number of cases at CAPAC, this corresponds to a million cases that are currently handled by the unions. A question has been put to you here in committee, and I hope that we will also have an answer on the breakdown of these various dossiers. We will, of course, be very careful to ensure that these solutions are pursued and maintained and that vigilance is increased for late cases, hoping that by April this will be a little better than in March. Finally, I am quite surprised at the point made by our colleague from the PTB who points out that, finally, when an institution that is not the state manages certain issues better than the state, it should be encouraged.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u69	Madam Minister, for many workers who are now in some form of unemployment by COVID-19, these are uncertain financial times. If, on top of that, there is no payment of their benefit, at least by a public authority, they will not be able to pay any more. The malfunctioning of the Auxiliaries is also a political responsibility. The Auxiliary Cash for Unemployment Benefits was established in 1952. It's almost 70 years later and the Auxiliaries remain a worried child. In addition to a sound emergency plan, which is now needed, we also need to look at the future. Efforts should be made to ensure the efficient operation of the Auxiliary Cash. It cannot be the intention that people who are members of the Hulpkas go to another payout institution because the unions are better organized. A public service, in this case one of the four payout institutions, should above all ensure that people are accessible and not sent from the locker to the wall.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u70	Madam Secretary, the birth of a child is something to look forward to for most parents. Especially the mothers want to spend as much time with their child as possible after birth. Fortunately, they can count on 15 weeks of maternity leave, of which one must take a week before birth. The rest can be recorded completely after birth or possibly before birth. The corona virus has put a lot of people in temporary unemployment. That's about a million in our country. There's a lot of pregnant women there, too. They are now being put at an extra disadvantage because they are losing part of their maternity leave because of this temporary unemployment. If they are forced home to temporary unemployment up to six weeks before delivery, they cannot take 14 weeks as planned after birth, but then they are obliged to return to work after nine weeks. That's not gonna bring out their dream picture. They don't get the time they wanted to spend with their kid. The same problem also arises for servants who are temporarily unemployed for economic reasons. Madam Minister, what will you do to ensure that mothers do not lose maternity leave because they are forced home to temporary unemployment because of the coronavirus? They would have worked differently, but they can't now. What will you do to make sure they don't lose those weeks? Can it be a piste to consider the period before childbirth that they are at home in temporary unemployment as a working period? I believe that this period should be treated as a working period.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u71	Mr President, Minister, for future mothers, the prospect of having to give birth to this corona crisis brings with it additional concerns. Many of them were put on temporary unemployment, which creates additional financial concerns. However, that is not the end of the matter. Pregnant women who are temporarily unemployed due to the corona crisis are now also at risk of losing part of their postnatal period of maternity rest. In the worst case scenario, only nine weeks of postnatal maternity rest remain. Future mothers in the status of temporary unemployment have not chosen to do so, nor have they counted on it. They are now particularly concerned about their baby's care situation, about leave schemes such as breastfeeding or planned return to work. Apart from these practical problems, too short maternity rest is detrimental to parents and babies. More than a month ago, temporary unemployment was introduced by force majeure. On 8 April, you stated that you would like to examine the equivalence of days of temporary unemployment with working days in the context of maternity rest with your colleague from Social Affairs. What is the state of affairs with regard to your proposal to completely shift prenatal childbirth until after childbirth? Have you had any discussions with your colleague from Social Affairs? If so, what was the result? Will you find a majority in the government for this? What will happen to the timing? Do you have a visual on that? What will happen to the fresh mothers whose numerator is already running?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u72	Article 39 of the Labour Act of 16 March 1971 allows the worker to extend her post-natal rest period by the period in which she continued to work from the sixth week before the legal date of delivery or from the eighth week when a multiple is expected at birth. The King may determine the periods which can be treated as periods of employment for the purpose of extending postnatal rest periods. Periods of temporary unemployment due to force majeure and periods of temporary unemployment due to economic reasons for servants are not included in a royal decree and therefore, in the current state of the legislation, do not give rise to the extension of the postnatal rest period. In view of the sharp increase in temporary unemployment during the current health crisis and the uncertainty it creates for pregnant workers, I have asked my administration to draw up a proposal for a text which provides for the equivalence of the days of temporary unemployment due to force majeure and the days of temporary unemployment for economic reasons for servants who have occurred since the beginning of this crisis. In this way, pregnant workers who are currently temporarily unemployed will be assured that they will be able to extend their postnatal rest period by the days of temporary unemployment during the prenatal period. This text proposal was drawn up in cooperation with Minister De Block's administration and therefore includes the necessary adjustments regarding the right to maternity benefits. The proposal will be submitted to the social dialogue in the coming days and then to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u73	Madam Minister, thank you for your reply, also on behalf of the many pregnant women and the women who have now given birth and have had their maternity leave shortened. I am sure that you will settle for them as well and that it will work retroactively for those who have already lost a few weeks. I look forward to receiving an official go from the other ministers and the social partners. Then I can tell you on behalf of all these parents that they will be very pleased with this arrangement. The same goes for servants, by the way. They also lose those weeks because they are in temporary unemployment. There will also be a solution for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u74	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. Too short of maternity rest is bad for the baby and the parents. Temporary unemployment due to corona-force must therefore be brought into line with periods worked for mothers in particular. This will enable them to have full post-natal maternity rest. It cannot therefore be the intention that pregnant women who have unintentionally entered temporary unemployment should lose several weeks of maternity rest. I therefore hope that the proposal will soon be approved by the government and Parliament so that the new parents and future parents can fully enjoy their little miracle.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u75	Mr President, Minister Statbel yesterday published statistics to give a clear idea of the impact of the pandemic on prices. This will not be a surprise for many, since the price of food is rising very significantly: + 5.9% for vegetables compared to the previous month; + 11.8% for fruit compared to April 2019. Minister, citizens need to be reassured about price developments. We hear so many people who feel like they don't have anything in their shopping cart for 40 euros. I've read that you want the total return of the discounts in the supermarkets. This is good, but promotions do not prevent speculation, and this does not concern all products. In France, maximum prices have been set on certain products, such as hydro-alcoholic gel. In Belgium too, I think we must be extremely firm and vigilant on this point. We need to put the Price Observatory on alert and give it more force to strike. Of two things one: either prices have not risen and we can explain it to people. Either they have increased and you must then, Madam Minister, intervene with a maximum price. We cannot leave people in poverty and we cannot afford speculation to be involved in the health crisis. That would be totally indecent and scandalous. Minister, what are you going to do about price control?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u76	Mr President, Mr Lacroix, yesterday I answered several questions on this subject in committee. The SPF Economy provides a weekly report on price developments to the Economic Risk Management Group. It does indeed show an increase in food prices. In addition, this upward trend in prices has been going on for some time and is not directly related to the VOCID-19 epidemic. In addition to these weekly reports, monthly inflation figures are published at a detailed level by Statbel, on which the quarterly reports of the Price Observatory are based. The first quarterly report will examine in detail the evolution of prices by product group. In the food group, products such as seafood, fish and vegetables have seen strong price increases in recent weeks. However, following the new Statbel figures released yesterday, the SPF Economy points out that in March food prices rose less rapidly in Belgium than in the Netherlands or Germany. It should be noted that food and non-alcoholic beverages represent only a significant part of the household budget, including other expenditure, such as energy, which has declined since the start of the VOCID-19 crisis. It is possible that this phenomenon will only be perceived late by the public, as gas and electricity bills remain the same from month to month, while a tariff reduction in energy contracts appears only in the annual count. Subsequently, a text was tabled in the Council of Ministers to remove the ban on promotions and discounts. For many families who are struggling to make ends meet right now, reductions are indeed important in terms of purchasing power. As we learned yesterday, inflation in our country continued to decline in April for the third consecutive month. Its rate is 0.57%. Finally, to conclude, within the framework of the legislation in force, the Economic Inspectorate is taking measures against usurious prices. It is particularly vigilant about practices such as counterfeiting, fraud or the application of abnormal prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u77	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, but I am only half satisfied. Indeed, you indicate that promotions and discounts will be reintroduced in full. That's a good initiative you've taken. Nevertheless, it is true that it will be difficult on the ground. Moreover, Carrefour, Cora and Delhaize say that to re-start the promotions, it will take time, if only because the logistics do not follow or the supplies do not arrive in the stores. This is therefore an important problem. Therefore, Minister, you need to be even more firm and vigilant. To that end, we have introduced two bills. The first is to control the maximum price of hydro-alcoholic gel. The second is to put the Price Observatory on alert and to give it more force to strike, using tariff controls where necessary. If we have tabled these texts, it is not to bother you, but to help consumers and the most disadvantaged, so also to strengthen your authority over those who tend to speculate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u78	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u79	You have received an amended draft agenda for today's meeting. You have received an amended draft agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u80	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Franky Demon, Jan Briers, Yngvild Ingels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u81	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Meryame Kitir, rapporteur, refers to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u82	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1144/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1144/5) The title has been amended by the committee to propose a law suspending certain deadlines relating to civil security." The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law suspending certain time limits for civil security." The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u83	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u84	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Emmanuel Burton, Vincent Scourneau, Jef Van den Bergh, Marianne Verhaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u85	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Cécile Thibaut, rapporteur, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u86	Mr President, we can, of course, largely agree with the spirit of the legislative proposal before us. Monday is an important day for passenger transport and we are once again facing important challenges. In the case of passenger transport, it will be mainly the commuter, who will take a step in the unknown, inter alia, because the question arises as to whether there are enough mouth masks, which are mandatory, which have already been mentioned today. The measures contained in the proposal are, of course, also concerned with rail freight transport. The needs of this rail sector have been large to very large for some time now. This was already the case before the corona crisis, but, of course, at the start of the crisis, these needs were further strengthened. In fact, the pre-crisis bottlenecks were and are accentuated during and through the crisis. The sloppyness and lateness with which the present bill came on the table are remarkable. Its lateness suggests, among other things, that you, Minister, and your cabinet were not or far too little concerned with the needs of the sector before the corona crisis. That is remarkable and raises questions. We are also aware of this from the field: steps were taken much faster in the neighbouring countries. The Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Germany and France introduced measures when we were still in sleep mode. Other notable difficulties were related to obtaining and communicating advice from the Regions. Similarly, a number of questions from the Council of State have not been addressed, for example in order to specify exactly which procedures are covered by Article 2. The Council of State considers the legislative text, like us, very vague and sloppy and therefore our group wishes to abstain. The spirit of the bill is positive, but the text itself is very sloppy. That was also said by the Council of State, but that opinion was ignored.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rail sector has had to adapt to this pandemic and the continuity of rail transport activities is vital to cope with the crisis. We must ensure the best transport conditions for people whose activity is essential to combat this pandemic. This also applies to the transport and supply of both health care equipment and food, which are absolutely crucial and one of the most important supply links in the country and neighbouring countries. SNCB and Infrabel have set up a service of national interest while private freight companies continue to operate for the benefit of the large sectors still in operation. However, these companies face growing operational difficulties. They have to bear high fixed costs while transport activity is slowed down. We must shoulder our responsibilities and allow the rail sector to continue to operate its indispensable missions in the crisis we are going through. We must act quickly but with respect for the principle of proportionality and the essential values that we are committed to preserving. The first emergency is to ensure that the licences and authorizations of safety personnel (mainly train drivers and attendants) that are due to expire and cannot be renewed at present due to suspensions of training or examinations are maintained. Without rapid action, more than a hundred train drivers per month would lose their licences. The whole of the Belgian rail would then be stopped very quickly. This requires the adoption of temporary derogations from the regulations in order to ensure the continued validity of the licences and authorizations of security personnel. The second urgency is to ensure the fluidity of freight transport operations with our neighbouring countries, which are also subject to disruption. Thus, freight transport will be given priority over other traffic in order to ensure smooth traffic at borders and beyond for international transport. These provisions are vital in order to maintain our supply capabilities and, as you have seen, safeguards are provided to safeguard passenger train traffic rights. With this in mind and in view of the difficulties of international travel, we must also take measures for driving personnel. The possibility will therefore be provided for companies and workers' representatives to conclude a social agreement allowing for the decoupling of two consecutive days instead of one at present. This temporary measure, authorised by European law, is applied in Germany and the Netherlands but is not yet permitted in Belgium. It must be firmly linked to the principle of prior social consultation. It is also important to stress that the rules limiting working time, driving time and rest periods are obviously still applicable. In addition, in view of the importance of enforcing health measures, a temporary derogation from the Language Use Act is foreseen. This temporary measure is limited to the duration of the crisis and aims to enable SNCB to communicate in all three national languages but also in English in order to ensure efficient communication for the benefit of all. In view of these various elements, we propose this bill, drafted in close cooperation with the Minister of Mobility and the SPF Mobility and Transport, for which we have asked for urgency in view of the exceptional circumstances. I have no doubt that many of you will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u88	I see that Mrs Thibaut has arrived in the meantime. You actually had another report to report, but I referred to your written report. That is not possible, however, because you will be presenting an oral report. If Mrs Vindevoghel can live with that, we will first listen to Mrs Thibaut as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u89	Mr. President, I'm sorry I'm late. I was in the house, but I misjudged speaking times. I'll try to be quick even if it's an oral report. Before we report on our work in committee, I would like to remind you that the bill tabled by Mr Burton and Mr Scourneau, who is currently on the agenda, was given urgency in plenary on April 16, 2020. Given the exceptional circumstances and the importance of the problem to be managed, the continuity of rail transport activities is vital to meet the challenges posed by the health crisis caused by SARS-CoV-2. The Speaker of the House, supported by the groups, immediately decided to invite the Legislative Section of the Council of State to give a reasoned opinion on the text submitted for consideration at today's plenary meeting, within five working days. Communication of the opinion of the Council of State to the House was a necessary condition for the final vote of the text in committee. Consideration of the bill originally scheduled for the meeting on Wednesday, 22 April 2020 has been postponed to 28 April 2020, the day before yesterday, at the request of the authors. Indeed, the opinion of the Council of State was transmitted to the members on 22 April within the requested time limits. I will come back to the content of this opinion in a few moments. Mr. Burton, as he has now, presented his text, written in close collaboration with the Minister of Mobility and the Mobility and Transport FPS. The pandemic is forcing our country's rail sector to adapt. Our colleague stressed the importance of ensuring the transport of people whose activity on the ground is essential to resist zoonosis, in the best conditions. The member said that this was also true for the transport and supply of freight, both in terms of healthcare equipment and food, both of which were absolutely crucial and one of the most important links in the supply of goods to the country and neighbouring countries. SNCB and Infrabel have set up a service of national interest while privately oriented freight companies continue to operate for the benefit of the large sectors still in operation. However, these companies face growing operational difficulties. They have to bear high fixed costs as the transport activity slows down. Mr. Burton called on us to take on our responsibilities and allow the rail sector to continue to carry out its indispensable missions in the current coronavirus crisis. There are two highlighted emergencies. The first is to ensure the continued validity of licences and authorizations of safety personnel (including train drivers and attendants) that will expire and cannot be renewed, given the suspension of training and examinations. Without rapid action, a significant number of drivers would lose their licences every month. The whole of the Belgian rail would then be stopped very quickly. Therefore, temporary derogations from the rules should be adopted in order to maintain the validity of licences and authorisations of security personnel. The second urgency is to ensure the fluidity of freight transport with neighbouring countries, which are also subject to disruption. Thus, freight transport will be given priority over other traffic in order to ensure smooth traffic at borders and beyond for international transport. These provisions are considered vital by the proponent of the proposal, in order to maintain our supply capabilities. He claims that safeguards are provided to safeguard the rights of the movement of passenger trains. With this in mind and in view of the difficulties of international travel, we should also take measures for driving personnel. The possibility will be provided for companies and workers' representatives to conclude a social agreement allowing for the decoupling of two consecutive days instead of one at present. Mr. Burton developed the text and scope of this temporary measure. Authorised by European law and applied in Germany and the Netherlands, this measure is not yet permitted in Belgium. It must be firmly linked to the principle of prior social consultation. The honourable Member stressed that the rules limiting working time, driving time and rest periods will continue to apply. In addition, in view of the importance of enforcing health measures, a temporary derogation from the Language Use Act is foreseen. Limited to the duration of the crisis, it aims to enable SNCB to communicate in all three national languages, but also in English, in order to ensure efficient communication for the benefit of all. Finally, and not least, the rail transport and freight sector is likely to have a lasting impact. It is already suffering significant losses as a result of the closure of the various industries. The sector is also at risk of being deprived of the subsidies it received. However, it is described as essential for the resumption of activities and therefore employment in our seaports and in our major national industrial sectors. The aid system is presented as vital by the author of the text. However, the current system ends at the end of this year and given the mobilization of the administration in the implementation of measures to combat VOCID-19, there is a great risk that the new system will not be put in place in time. Mr Burton therefore proposed that the current mechanism should be extended by one year. This proposal would give the sector stability guarantees and visibility on its medium-term financial returns. Indeed, the sector must be able to negotiate quickly with the donors, with the aid as guarantees. However, everyone should bear in mind that the implementation of this extension will depend on a prior decision by the European Commission's competition services. Given the slow pace of operation, including the European public institutions, it is essential that we take a decision without delay, at the risk of exceeding the deadline of 31 December without a new regime. After the introduction of the lead author of the bill, Minister Bellot strongly stressed the need to vote on the bill as soon as possible, failing which major difficulties would be announced in a few days' time. The President, Mr Delizée, then opened the general discussion, which was characterized by a number of interventions which reflected both a great diversity of views and the willingness of everyone to examine the text in depth. Given the urgency, on the one hand, and the physical constraints associated with the oral report to be produced in an ultra-french time frame, on the other hand, it would be excessive to go into detail. Members may take the floor if they so wish. As far as committee work is concerned, I will summarize our meeting by noting that members have asked for a series of clarifications from the minister and the lead author, particularly on the issue of absenteeism. The detailed responses to the report, once published, have been provided. An important debate on a relatively complex, essential and procedural legal issue took place before the articles were discussed. The opinion of the Council of State recalled the existence of a prior formality of which the members of the Mobility Committee are well aware: the draft law must be submitted to the association procedure of the regional governments since it falls within the competence of the federal authority in matters of transport regulations. As far as the technical specificity of this procedure is concerned, I refer you to Article 6, § 8 of the above-mentioned Special Act of 8 August 1980 and to Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber which enshrines the compulsory cooperation of the Chamber with the federated entities, a technique of consultation peculiar to our Federal State which the Commission on Mobility scrupulously invokes, whenever it devotes a sitting to the bills. We have witnessed the confrontation of two distinct trends in the enforcement of legal and regulatory prescriptions, although united in principle; indeed, the committee wanted to have the comments of the Regions before voting on the whole, given that this vote could not take place in the absence of an opinion. If, on the one hand, one could discern the supporters of a thesis which I may call indulgent or understanding, I think I have identified, on the other hand, opponents demonstrating a more regulatory attitude, inasmuch as it required more literal compliance with the Rules of Procedure. Nevertheless, I think I can correctly say that we all agree that the 30-day deadline should not necessarily apply in the current context. More concretely, some members, including myself, could be satisfied with the explanations given by the minister who declared, so to speak, solemnly before the committee, that the content of the text presented to the committee had the support of the Regions consulted prior to our work. The Minister also communicated to the Commission the written views of the Flemish government, which agreed with a royal decree guaranteeing the continuity of rail service during the pandemic. Rail transport is a necessary public service. On the other hand, the committee did not have any writing from the Brussels and Walloon regions. That is why other groups, including the N-VA, felt that the bill could not be passed. The Minister therefore recalled that the circumstances of a pandemic, which the State bodies are confronted with, pose insurmountable obstacles because, if the House's Rules were to be applied in the letter, despite the very exceptional emergency situation, the law would arrive too late, which those affected by the lack of measures would not be able to understand. The chairman of the committee proposed a solution that would overcome the impasse. He asked the members present physically or virtually whether they agreed to put the bill to the vote, as long as the minister undertook to make an effort to obtain from the regional ministers, having Mobility in their responsibilities, a notice which they would transmit to the Speaker of the House as soon as possible. That is done because the missing opinions have come to us. As consensus had been reached, the bill could be put to the vote. Mr Roggeman tabled a series of amendments to amend certain articles and to delete others which the Committee considered to be outside the Flemish Region's view mentioned above. They were all approved so that articles 11 to 17 of the proposal, which included 18 in its basic version, were extracted from the text. These articles 11 to 17 may be the subject of a separate bill, which may be considered urgent, given that the bill of which they are split had obtained the urgency. The balance, however, if I can say so, that is to say the 12 remaining articles, namely Articles 1 to 11 and 18, was adopted by 14 votes (N-VA, Ecolo-Groen, PS, MR, CD&V, Open Vld) and 3 abstentions from the VB and the PTB. I will conclude, Mr. Chairman, with a legal and linguistic comment on the title of the bill, which was amended technically in the drafting of the adopted text, to the extent that it is appropriate to distinguish between the disease VOCID-19 and the virus SARS-CoV-2. Therefore, the words "propagation of the coronavirus VOCID-19" were replaced by the words "propagation of the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2". We could have written "propagation of the coronavirus causing VOCID-19" but it is a question of designating the virus by its name. It is more appropriate to refer to SARS-CoV-2. This amendment does not require any amendment. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the oral report on our proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u90	Thank you for this report, Mr Thibaut. In the normal order of business, this should have come first. In order not to waste time, a number of speakers have already spoken in the general discussion. I would like to add one more element to the plenary session. We decided yesterday at the Conference of Presidents that we would table this proposal on condition that the opinion of the three Regions would reach us before the beginning of our sitting. We already had the positive opinion of the Flemish Government. Yesterday we also received the opinion of the Walloon Government at the Conference of Presidents and this morning the positive opinion of the Brussels Government also arrived. So we can make a perfect decision on this matter today. It is a matter that I understand is urgent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u91	Mr President, we shall abstain. There are indeed some good elements, but there are also a number of things that are not good. We agree that there will be an extension of the licences and licences so that the train conductors can continue their work. As I said in committee, there was already a delay before the corona crisis in granting the necessary licences due to a structural shortage of staff in the competent departments. That is why we are asking that there should be enough staff to ensure that licences are made up in the long term. We have two main problems. Article 9 lays down priority for freight transport in relation to passenger transport. A great deal has already been done for freight transport in consultation with the social partners and industry. We do not know what will happen, what priorities will be given and what problems will arise, both in relation to staff and passenger transport. How will that work and who will be given priority? That is the problem with Article 9. Article 10, in turn, intervenes directly in the social dialogue. We will not support legislative proposals which impose on the social partners what they have to accept. I am very surprised that even the socialist parties here have accepted this. The original text of the MR stated that there might be a problem of absenteeism among train conductors. Now Mr Bellot's own figures showed that there was anything but a problem of absenteeism. What problem is this article trying to solve? This is an effective change in rest periods. As an experienced syndicater, I can assure you that changing timetables and rest periods for employees is one of the most sensitive issues. After all, they are directly affecting people's private lives, which are already completely ruined. I have never signed a change of timetables myself without submitting it to the staff. We all know that the timetable of train drivers is already quite a puzzle, especially in order to combine it with the social life of train drivers. Article 10 will only ensure that fewer drivers will be employed on international routes and that there will therefore be more technical unemployment. I checked. Already there is technical unemployment in certain freight transport companies. This is another organised transfer due to the MR from society to private freight transport. On the eve of 1 May, I do not quite understand that socialist parties accept that. It will not be accepted by the grassroots. It is up to the unions to do the social dialogue. It is not with a bill that this has to be approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u92	Mr President, I would like to say two things. First of all, in relation to this article, which we discussed, I repeated in what context it was. First, it's for international traffic drivers. Then it's to open up the concertation. Finally, it is because train drivers at certain borders encounter difficulties in returning to their country, including Belgium, by car. At their request, in order to prevent them from being trapped, we have provided for the possibility of sleeping for two nights rather than one night. I make it clear that it will be on a voluntary basis and that it is the opening of a consultation. We have discussed this at length. I think the niche is relatively narrow. The second thing, Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank you, as well as the services of the House and all my colleagues who saw the importance of urgency in this matter. We want to restore public service as quickly as possible to 100% rail mobility. It's vital, it's vital for the country. I know how personally, Mr President, you have urged your colleagues in the Regions to obtain the opinion. Others also intervened. In the meantime, we have received the opinions of the Regions. Two out of the three regions gave a positive opinion, not only on Articles 1 to 11, but also 12 to 17. In the near future, we will come with the second part of this bill. There are technical elements. But I can reassure the members: things are well advanced. I would like to thank you for the listening and attention you have to this obvious urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u93	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u94	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1161/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1161/5) The title has been amended by the committee to propose legislation to combat the spread of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus in rail (I)". The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law to take action to combat the spread of the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 on rail transport (I)." The bill has 12 articles. The bill has 12 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u95	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u96	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Vincent Scourneau, Emmanuel Burton, Jef Van den Bergh, Marianne Verhaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u97	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Ms. Zanchetta was supposed to give us an oral report, but she is not present. The discussion is rather technical and it seems to me that it did not pose a problem in committee. There are no speakers for the general debate, I think it is a formality. Do you agree with that, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u98	Mr President, this has not been the subject of almost any discussion or dispute in the committee. It is simply a matter of extending the date of the deposit of accounts from 30 April to 30 June. I would point out that your assembly has decided that, for commercial companies, this would be postponed for six months. The two-month deferral will be sufficient. Moreover, it was unanimously approved in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u99	Although I am Speaker of the House, I would rather have opted for a royal decree of special powers for such a technical element. Having said that, we can move forward, and I can see the general discussion as closed. The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u100	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1162/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1162/4) The title has been amended by the Bill Commission to allow the postponement of transmission and approval of the annual skeyes accounts for 2019, as a result of the measures taken in the context of the VOCID-19 crisis." The title was amended by the Committee in a proposal for a law to postpone the transmission and approval of the annual accounts of skeyes for the year 2019 as a result of the measures taken in the context of the COOVID-19 crisis." The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u101	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u102	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Mathieu Bihet, Isabelle Galant.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u103	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u104	As for an oral report that has had to be made in an emergency, I will be synthetic. The Social Affairs Committee meeting on Tuesday, 28 April, analysed this bill on exceptional pension measures in the context of the pandemic. The authors first introduced this two-pronged bill. The aim of this bill is not to punish pensioners who have returned to work or are more active in an essential sector for the sole purpose of providing assistance in the fight against coronavirus. In concrete terms, the revenues from these exceptional activities will not be taken into account in determining whether the limits allowed in 2020 are exceeded. This is the case, for example, for a nursing pensioner who is not 65 years old or 45 years old and who decides to return to work to help with the crisis. With this text, he will not be penalized for his pension. The second aspect of this proposal concerns active pensioners, those who had chosen to continue working after age 65 but who, as a result of this crisis, are forced to cease their activities and thus lose a share of their income and purchasing power. The aim here is to allow them to temporarily combine their pensions with replacement income such as bridge rights or temporary unemployment. The entry into force of this bill is retroactive to 1 March 2020. Mr Spooren for the N-VA endorsed the first part of the proposal, allowing pensioners to return to work without being punished, in order to support the essential sectors. On the other hand, with regard to the second part of the proposal, Mr Spooren indicated that his group was against the cumulation of allowances and that therefore the N-VA would vote against the proposal. Ms Willaert, for Ecolo-Groen, recalled the importance of an adequate first pillar of pension and said that the proposed measures should remain temporary. She asked several questions, including about pre-pensions and disabled persons. For the PS, Marc Goblet welcomed the measure allowing pensioners not to be punished if they return to work to help an essential sector. He recalled that the PS had been the first party to ask for this measure in Kern. With regard to the cumulation of a pension and other compensation, he indicated that the provision should remain temporary and exceptional due to the crisis. Mr Verreyt, for Vlaams Belang, supported the additional measures taken in the context of the crisis to help where the need was most acute. However, he pointed out that the cumulation of allowances should not become permanent. Ms Lanjri, for the CD&V, supported the proposal by recalling that an exceptional crisis called for exceptional measures. Ms Moscufo, for the PTB, said that her group would support the bill, provided that what was temporary did not become structural. For her, this crisis must be used to create a new way of working. Mrs De Jonge, for Open Vld, welcomed the measures allowing pensioners to continue to work without being punished. Mrs Vanrobaeys, for sp.a., also felt that they should not be punished and insisted that they should receive a decent pension. She supported the proposal provided it was temporary. The Minister of Pensions responded to comments and answered various questions. The drafters of the law then presented amendments implementing an agreement between the social partners. They asked to allow the continuation of supplementary pensions and insurance during a period of temporary unemployment linked to the crisis. Many members regretted the late tabling of the voluminous amendments, whereas the opinion of the social partners had been delivered several days earlier. Various questions have been asked as to the possibilities for refusal by employers and the information given to workers. The Minister of Pensions has confirmed the opt-out principle allowing employers to maintain the original plans. He indicated that workers should be adequately informed of whether or not to maintain coverage and the consequences of deferred contributions. These amendments were adopted unanimously. Ms Willaert and Ms Moscufo tabled their amendments aimed at removing the possibility for the government to extend the measures. A discussion ensued. The PS, sp.a., PTB and Ecolo-Groen argued that the extension of the measure should be the subject of parliamentary debate. The CD&V and the MR defended the delegation by the need for consistency with other government decisions. Both amendments were rejected by nine votes to eight, with no abstentions. Finally, the amended bill was adopted by all the parties present in committee, with the exception of the N-VA, which voted against it. The proposal was adopted in committee by fourteen votes to three.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Dedonder.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative proposal before us clearly contains two distinct parts, two different measures. That is a bit unfortunate, because we are in favour of one measure and against another, on which I will be returning shortly, but the combination of one legislative proposal will not allow us to support it with the N-VA Group. The first measure concerns pensioners who are allowed to update. This can only be done for pensioners with a career of 45 years or after the 65th year of life. These criteria limit different pensioners in the possibilities of earning additional income. This legislative proposal aims to extend the possibilities, mainly concerning people who are prematurely retired or those who have a survivor's pension, still according to the old system. In the current corona period, we are certainly in favour of extending these criteria. It is a temporary measure and, moreover, as several proposals today, taken in very specific circumstances. Certain sectors really need every helping hand they can get, and from the point of view of the target audiences, this bill is also certainly an added value, as their purchasing power increases when they can update after retirement. We are certainly in favour of that part of the bill. We have therefore approved the corresponding articles. In fact, we have always supported the fact that pensioners can earn extra money, even in the previous legislature. Through our cooperation with Minister Bacquelaine, we have made it possible to make unlimited extra earnings. I myself have tabled another bill, which was approved, on the elimination of the tax pension trap. We have also made it possible for flexi-jobs to be open to pensioners. With N-VA, therefore, we strongly support the idea that pensioners should be able to earn extra work. However, what is now being introduced for some of them is a combination of a pension that is an income replacement, with other income replacement benefits such as temporary unemployment or incapacity for work. That's a step too far for us. The N-VA can very well live with a combination of income from work and an income replacement benefit to the extent that the work continues to be profitable and the income replacement benefit remains sufficiently active. In other words, the combination of income from work and income replacement should be a stepping stone to full-time work, for those who are still able to do so. The employment integration jobs that we have repeatedly put on the agenda are a good example of this. The N-VA can also live with the combination of two half benefits in different schemes which together constitute a full benefit. The accumulation of two full income replacement benefits is something we have never introduced into our social security system. In our view, this is absolutely not desirable and undermines the basic principles of our social security and social assistance, namely that this is a safety net for those without income, an income replacement. So no double safety net, no two income replacements. Apart from this fundamental objection, we also wonder how to justify the introduction of an age limit of 65 years. Actually, that's age discrimination. Why should a person less than 65 years old receive a double replacement income and not a person over 65 years old? We can't explain that. Our reasoning also applies to those who earn a supplementary pension as a self-employed person. That right of bridging is actually also a second replacement income. We apply the same logic: that is contrary to the basic principles of our social security. Although we understand that exceptional measures need to be taken in exceptional circumstances and the N-VA absolutely supports the first part of the legislative proposal, my group will not approve the whole proposal because of the second part of the proposal with which we absolutely cannot agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u107	Mr President, Minister, this is a text that we have supported in the Committee on Social Affairs and will support in a few minutes' time. However, I would like to make two points. The first concerns the possibility of extending the period of application of the system – a measure which is obviously linked, as is the case for others that we have taken, to the crisis of the coronavirus – by simple royal decree taken at the initiative of the government. We discussed this possibility with my colleagues in committee – Mrs Leroy, Mrs Willaert – and with the minister. The latter was prepared to adopt our proposal that, if we were to extend it, we should go back to Parliament. But, in the end, this amendment was not accepted. That has not prevented us and will not prevent us from voting on the text. However, I would like to stress the importance of all the texts that we are voting on as a matter of urgency to respond to the particular situation of the pandemic. There is no need to make an exception scheme, whereas that is not the intention, a definitive scheme. It is important to be able to acknowledge, in a parliamentary debate in committee or in plenary, that it is not a question, through this possibility which will remain open to the government, of doing anything about the duration of a measure which must remain exceptional. But I understand that the intention of the minister, and therefore of the government, is to respect the spirit of the law. It would be good if he could repeat it, even if his party did not support the amendment that was tabled. My second point concerns the question of the cumulation of two social benefits, in this case a pension allowance and a temporary unemployment allowance. This measure does not shock us in itself. It all depends on the first allocation. These are, in particular in the context of the survivor's pension, persons who have a career behind them, who receive a pension but who are low, and who work to supplement their subsistence income, using the flexibility given by law to accumulate a pension amount with a wage amount resulting from work. This is a provision, Minister, about which we were generally critical, but which we were in favour of for the lowest pensions that are a problem in our society. In the same vein, it seems to us quite normal to accept that a person accumulates a pension income with an exceptional unemployment benefit "coronavirus" due to the fact that the activities he carried out in a professional manner before the pandemic are interrupted. In this respect, we are positive that this text allows for this cumulation, unlike our colleagues in the N-VA. We even believe that this cumulation can be extended, knowing that the starting condition is that the basic pension is relatively low and obliges our seniors to work. That is a second clarification that I wanted to make in this general debate in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u108	Mr President, there are two aspects to the proposal. The first addresses the possible negative effects of retirees who have returned to work to help fight coronavirus in a crucial area. Revenues from these activities will not be taken into account in determining whether the limits allowed in 2020 are exceeded. We find that this is a positive step and the PS was the first to ask for it at the various meetings of the Kern. We will therefore, as you may know, support this first part. As regards the second part, which is to allow the cumulation between a pension and other replacement income, in principle, the cumulation of allowances is not desirable. Allowances are used to replace income, and this situation demonstrates, if necessary, that too many pensions are so low that their beneficiaries have to look for other forms of income. For us, it means raising the amount of pensions. However, in this exceptional context, we do not want to penalise active pensioners who, as a result of the crisis, have had to cease their activities. That is why we will support the proposal to combine their pension with another replacement income. As regards the amendments implementing an agreement between the social partners and allowing for the continuity of plans and insurance for workers who are temporarily unemployed during the crisis, we are in favour of this. We insist that the worker must be adequately informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u109	Mr President, the current unprecedented crisis is not just a health crisis. While one minister was appointed for mouth masks after another, a large part of our economy is falling silent. Yet there are sectors where it is all hands on deck. I am thinking primarily of the care sector, where many pensioners responded to the calls made by their former employers. The extra hands on the bed were more than welcome. But not only in the residential care centers and hospitals, young pensioners started working. They also helped in the transport sector, supermarkets and education. The present bill ensures that these volunteers, these helping hands that we so needed, do not shoot themselves in the foot when it comes to the retirement or survival pension, which they would otherwise enjoy. The Flemish interest is and remains in favour of raising the minimum pension to 1,500 euro net monthly. Although this is a priority for us, it is not today's debate. Today we are only talking about exceptional measures in exceptional circumstances, about specific measures during the corona pandemic. In doing so, we ensure that those who step in and therefore earn a little more and thus exceed the legal limits do not lose or be punished for their pension or benefit. Similar measures will be taken for the recipients of an IGO who wish to help. It is to be welcomed that there are people who want to work in these difficult times. For these reasons, we will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think that Mr Gilkinet misunderstood the minister, who was not in favour of the amendment but who recalled that Parliament remained sovereign. The beneficiaries of a retirement or survivors' pension are not spared by the crisis. Since the beginning of the crisis, pensioners who had worked in the medical community have been recalled to provide assistance and expertise in the fight against the virus and this pandemic. On the other hand, some pensioners who combined their pension with an occupational activity are temporarily unemployed for reasons of force majeure or economic reasons or receive sickness or disability benefits as a result of the health crisis. Such income or allowances received in these two situations may have a negative impact on the pension and GRAPA of the persons concerned. In both cases, the consequences are important for these pensioners, especially as regards their right to pensions and the impact on their purchasing power. It was therefore necessary to act quickly in order to neutralise the negative and unfair impact that the situation may have on purchasing power. That is the whole purpose of this bill. The current legislation allows pensioners or persons receiving a survivor's pension to have an occupational activity and additional income within certain limits, regardless of the scheme. Therefore, for pensioners who have decided to resume or intensify their activities in order to combat the virus, the scheme does not take account of these professional incomes during the period VOCID-19. The second part of the proposal concerns all pensioners who, before the crisis, continued to work but who, because of the measures taken as a result of the crisis, find themselves in temporary unemployment or receive other replacement allowances. However, the accumulation of a retirement pension with a replacement income is not permitted. For persons receiving a survivor's pension, this accumulation is only possible for a maximum period of 12 months and is limited with regard to the amounts. The aim here is to lift this ban by the time that the health crisis will last. We must allow these cumulations to help pensioners maintain their purchasing power as much as possible. Of course, it should be noted that these two measures are also applicable if the recipient receives a GRAPA. In conclusion, it should be recalled that the proposals that I submit to you today are an initiative of Ministers Bacquelaine and Ducrame to allow our pensioners not to have to undergo this crisis. As you will also have noticed, a series of amendments have been introduced to create a second chapter, the first chapter of the statutory pension, while this second chapter falls under the second pillar. Since this new component has received the unanimous green light of the Committee on Supplementary Pensions, the Committee on Supplementary Pensions has called for an early entry into force. That is why we have chosen to introduce it by way of an amendment in order to speed up its implementation. This second part therefore concerns the creation and coverage of supplementary pensions under the second pillar in the event that workers find themselves in temporary unemployment during the health crisis. Some organizers already foresee this possibility. However, this is not the case for the vast majority. However, some have expressed a willingness to continue this commitment for the benefit of workers. Very concretely, workers or entire sectors will be informed of the possibility of continuing the creation of second pillar rights and other coverages. They will have the choice of whether or not to continue their commitments during this period. Within 30 days, they will have to signify their decision. This is an opt-out decision, as my colleague Dedonder pointed out. A priori, employers are considered to be engaged in the prosecution and will have to state their disengagement decision. For employers who do not agree, the measure still specifies that death insurance is maintained. Finally, this proposal provides for a payment period for employers to post payment of premiums. However, in the absence of a premium payment, the proposal states that this cannot have a negative impact on workers. It is therefore a proposal covering both the first and the second pillars. In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will have understood that it is necessary to act quickly and to adopt these provisions, which are designed to protect the purchasing power of our pensioners, who are at risk of being affected by the crisis, and to allow workers who benefit from supplementary pensions to continue to create rights for the future. For these reasons, it goes without saying that my group and I will support the proposal and we invite you to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u111	Mr President, we are happy to endorse the legislative proposal tabled by the MR Group. In exceptional times, we must be able to take exceptional measures. This is such an exceptional measure. Just as we ensured that the working hours that students perform in these corona times are not included in their quota, we now provide the possibility for those who are retired to work without seeing their pension or benefit fall. It is a good thing that there has also been consideration of people with benefits for elderly people, THAB, or those with an income guarantee for the elderly, IGO. If they want to engage in this corona crisis, for example in the care, distribution or education sectors, they must be able to do so without being financially punished. That is why we will be happy to support the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u112	Mrs Moscufo, I assume that you will also defend your amendment during your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u113	Mr. President, you'll see. As you know, politics is very complex. I don't have to tell you. As a first step, we will obviously support the bill, because in general, with our party, in this fight against coronavirus, we do not want it to be the workers who pay for it. In that sense, we will support it. It will be a "yes" with still many "but", which I will try to explain here and which join, for some aspects, arguments that have already been defended by some of my colleagues, including my colleague from the PS. First of all, it's about the exceptional character. There was a real paradox in the debate in committee, because, although the authors agree with us and assure us that this will be exceptional, when we propose an amendment to close it, they reject it. This amendment concerned the exceptional nature, but also the democratic character. They agree, but they do not support the amendment. It's one thing already. A second thing is that we have a real right to doubt the political will of the authors to make it only an exceptional question when we know what the political and ideological vision of this political formation on the question of pensions is. For us, it is out of the question of putting pensioners in a situation where their income would not allow them to have a decent life, and that they have nothing more to do with finding a job next door. This is obviously the model defended by the Reform Movement. That is why, before this crisis of the coronavirus, we launched a large campaign for at least 1,500 euros net for all pensioners. The third "but" is that in the essential sectors, and especially in health care, we are faced with the urgency, and therefore all those who are pensioners and who have the skills to help in this struggle are welcome because we are in an emergency. But the same Reform Movement does not question the fundamental reasons why, in the health care sector, it lacks staff. There is a shortage of staff because they have implemented austerity measures in this sector. Despite this, Mr. Chairman, we will vote in favour of this bill. At the same time, we defended our amendment, which unfortunately was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u114	I will not go back to the content of the bill. We can support this bill, but it must be temporary and exceptional for us. That is why we will also support the PVDA amendment. During the corona crisis, we noticed that pensioners were called up to fill deficits in key sectors. Of course, we cannot punish the early pensioners under the age of 65 by cutting their income that they deserve. That would be awesome, especially if we knew that some of them have taken enormous health risks by retiring or expanding the work. With regard to the accumulation of temporary unemployment and pension, we emphasise our general starting point. A pension should be high enough. We also reiterate our proposal that minimum pensions should be increased to EUR 1,500. In this crisis, we find that pensions are not enough to live on, and that young pensioners must be forced to look for an extra income by earning or updating. If, as a result of the crisis, additional jobs are lost, that means a real tragedy for pensioners. That is why we also agree to replace that part of their income they earn because it is necessary with temporary unemployment. It is also good that this applies not only to the pension but also to the IGA, so that the most vulnerable people can also count on this support income. Thirdly, we can also accept the amendments on supplementary pensions which have implemented the unanimous opinion of the social partners. However, we stressed that we felt that the workers should be sufficiently informed. So we can agree to this bill, because it is exceptional. In principle, however, we believe that structural measures should also be taken, such as additional hands in care, a sufficiently high pension and an increase in the minimum pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u115	Mr President, I would like to thank the members of the Social Affairs Committee for the diligence and precision with which they have agreed to deal with this proposal. I would also like to thank my colleague the Minister for Economic Affairs and Employment, Mrs Muylle, for the excellent consultations we have had on this project, in particular on the amendment concerning the continuation of supplementary pension contributions. There are indeed several aspects to this proposal. The first part was not challenged. These are all those who are making themselves available in the context of this epidemic crisis, and who agree to return to work to relieve all those who are facing in the essential sectors, in the context of the VOCID-19 crisis. These people cannot be punished by their altruistic choice. I think everyone agrees on that. The least we can do is that they are not punished at the level of their pensions, while they are a gesture of general solidarity with society. I understand that everyone is obviously in favour of this proposal. Mr. Bihet and Ms. Galant have associated this first part with a second part, which is also important; it is to allow people who have kept a certain activity, and who can no longer engage in this activity because of the pandemic crisis, not to be penalized when they are unemployed because of force majeure, while they were also receiving a pension. It is true that the general principle, namely the cumulation of allowances, is not a rule of traditional social law. Indeed, the whole of our social security system is based in particular on the non-accumulation of replacement allowances. We are in an exceptional system. But all the proposals that we are adopting in the context of the pandemic are part of this exceptional nature. I am also surprised that the government's ability to extend the application of these provisions, if the crisis related to the VOCID-19 were to persist, has given rise to objections. In response to the latter, the only thing I could say was that I was obviously relying on the wisdom of Parliament. But the legislative provisions of this proposal or bill make it clear that the measures are automatically extinguished. If the crisis of the VOCID-19 is no longer there, the law no longer applies. It stops spontaneously. I therefore do not see very well what is the point of saying that we should return to Parliament if the pandemic crisis is to continue. If people are still temporarily unemployed because of force majeure, Parliament will not go back to what it has decided. That would make no sense! On the other hand, if the pandemic crisis no longer exists, these provisions will automatically end, since the jobs taken into account here are precisely in the context of the health crisis. It seemed important to me to provide these clarifications. As regards the second part of this proposal, I would like to say, in particular to the members of the N-VA who were the only ones who did not support this provision, that we have received, at the level of the cabinet and the Federal Pension Service, an impressive series of letters from people whose situation is very clear and concrete. These are persons who receive a survivor's pension, who are mostly women, who are widowed, and who face the pain of losing their spouse. Should there be a form of double punishment in this epidemic? I don't think so. These people work, not necessarily because they need it financially, even if they do, but because they are young women who don't want not to work, which can be understood. Work should not always be seen as punishment. It can also represent a development. Some people unfortunately become widowed/widows very early and find themselves unemployed, while they want to work. In my opinion, they should not be penalized. When they return to work within permitted limits, such as half-time, it is normal that, if they then lose their activity, they enjoy the same rights as any other person in the case. Why discriminate against them? They are entitled to their survivor's pension, which they have not chosen, since they are widowed or widowed. It is precisely from these people that we have received the most solicitations. This bill allows us to respond to it. I wanted to make this incise, because it seems to me important to consider this aspect well. There are also allowances which are partly cumulative, such as the survivor's pension is cumulative with GRAPA for 12 months – this is not an exception law. Here, we go a little further by allowing a cumulation of the survivor's pension with the unemployment benefit as compensation for work that these people can no longer accomplish. Finally, I understand that, for some, we could have come earlier with such a text, but that was not possible – and for several reasons. First, it is an extremely technical proposal. You realize that this does not give us the right to error from the legal point of view. We also wanted to give room for consultation. The Supplementary Pensions Commission has resumed its work. It reached an agreement with representatives of the Minister for Employment and the Economy and the Minister for Pensions, with the insurance sector, with the pension fund sector. Everyone had to agree: trade unions, employers, etc. Everyone agreed. After that, the agreement had to be taken into account and translated into legal terms. That is what we have done, it seems to me, in a record time. That is why we have presented this in the form of an amendment to speed up implementation. The aim of this rapidity was to put an end to a major uncertainty. This is not the only purpose of this amendment, but there was a great deal of uncertainty which it is useful to recall today. When supplementary pension contributions are no longer paid because the person is unemployed, there is a small hiatus in the formation of the pension which can last a few months. It's not the most serious thing yet. The most serious thing is that, during that period, there is no longer death insurance, which means that the person who dies during that period not only did not contribute – necessarily because he or she died – but his or her beneficiaries lose all the capital. So, everything that's been contributed before is lost! This was obviously a legitimate cause for concern, and it was absolutely necessary for this problem to be resolved quickly. This will be the case thanks to your speed of action and the work that has been carried out by Parliament's Social Affairs Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u116	Mr President, I would like to ask for the floor because the Minister has mentioned us. I repeat very briefly what Mr Spoormen said. We naturally regret the fact that we have to vote in favour of a two-component proposal. We are certainly in favour of the first part, which I would like to stress, but I can tell from the Minister's reply that he thinks that minimum pensions are not enough. That was implicit in his answer. That's a very interesting discussion. We in the Michael I administration have tried to reform the pension system. Unfortunately, we have not been able to complete that. That's stuck at a certain point. We regret that. But the intention was not only to guarantee the pension system as such, but also, of course, to give room for the lowest pensions in order to systematically increase them. That is an important objective. It would, of course, be more pleasant for us to go down that road than for us to introduce a system which would require a second benefit in addition to a benefit, because the first is not enough. That is the point we have put forward. A benefit in the event of a benefit, that is a principle with which we have problems. I hope, however, that it will be possible to work quickly to effectively raise the lowest pensions, so that you do not have to use that argument anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u117	Mr President, as in committee, we will not support the amendment. The possibility of extending cumulation measures must be linked to other measures, such as the possibility of continuing temporary unemployment in cases of force majeure due to the crisis. We believe that the various arrangements should be linked to the same rules and we will therefore support the original draft and not the amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u118	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u119	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1159/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1159/5) The title has been amended by the committee to propose a law on exceptional measures in the context of the VOCID-19 pandemic on pensions, supplementary pensions and other supplementary social security benefits." The title was amended by the Commission in its proposal for a regulation laying down exceptional measures under the COVID-19 pandemic on pensions, supplementary pensions and other supplementary social security benefits." The bill has 13 articles. The bill has 13 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u120	Decision of the article-by-article discussion: Reserved: Amendment and Rule 6. Sustained: the amendment and Article 6.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u121	Article adopted by article: 1 to 5 and 7 to 13.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u122	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u123	By letter dated January 16, 2020, Mr. Wouter de Ridder, Clerk of the Standing Committee on the Review of Intelligence and Security Services, announced that he would retire on December 1, 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u124	By letter dated April 24, 2020, Mr. Serge Lipszyc, Chair of Committee R, requested that the House initiate the procedure for the appointment of a new Clerk of Committee R, given that the current Clerk was currently absent due to illness and that his retirement was scheduled for December 1, 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u125	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 April 2020, I propose that you publish a call for candidates for the Belgian Monitor. In order to assess the requirement of knowledge of the French and Dutch languages, it is proposed to require a level of linguistic knowledge corresponding to the language certificate ′′Article 12′′ of the Selor. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 April 2020, I propose that you publish a call for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal. As regards the assessment of the condition of knowledge of the Dutch and French languages, it is proposed to require a level of linguistic knowledge corresponding to Selor's language certificate ′′ Article 12′′. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u126	The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the bill on various provisions concerning the posting of workers, No. 1173/1. The Government asked for an urgent procedure pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on various provisions relating to the posting of workers, No. 1173/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u127	Mr President, this bill contains various provisions concerning the posting of workers and transposes Directive (EU) 2018/957 amending Directive 96/71/EC on the posting of workers in the framework of a service provision. This Directive must be transposed by 30 July 2020 at the latest. This project requires implementing measures by royal decree. In order for the bill to come into force on time, it is necessary that it be approved as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u128	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u129	Minister, we haven't had a lot of explanations, frankly, but I see that you already have a majority. It's for July and I feel like we still have a little time, but I don't make it a major problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u130	I remind the government that urgent requests must be properly justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u131	The government also called for urgency pursuant to rule 51 of the Regulations when the bill on various urgent tax measures was introduced in response to the VOCID-19 pandemic, No. 1174/1. The Government has also requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law on various urgent tax provisions resulting from the COOVID-19 pandemic, No. 1174/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u132	Mr President, as my colleague Alexander De Croo is being held at an important meeting, I am replacing him to justify the urgency given the crisis of the VOCID-19 and the need to act quickly by guaranteeing legal certainty to the taxpayer in these economically uncertain times. It is therefore of the utmost importance that this matter be dealt with urgently and that Parliament be able to vote as soon as possible. If you so wish, I can provide you with a series of provisions that are included in it, unless you have already received the draft text. Various exceptional tax measures and derogations must be taken in this bill. The following measures are provided for: "Facilitate donations in kind of various medical devices and products useful in the fight against the pandemic, exemption from compensation granted in the framework of the assistance measures taken by the Regions and Communities, temporary adjustment of the calculation of the increase for the absence or insufficiency of advance payments of income tax, extension by six months of the 18-month period referred to in Article 194b(1) of the Income Tax Code, exemption from a series of measures to ensure the proper organisation of work and employment (...)"
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u133	Personally, I am convinced, Minister! I don't know if the House is following me, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u134	Mr. Speaker, I am convinced that this is only a limited list and that our partners and members of the House will be able to demonstrate innovation and creativity when discussing the text in its amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u135	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u136	The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the draft law on work in fisheries, No. 1176/1. The Government has also requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law on work in the fisheries sector, No. 1176/1 I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u137	Mr President, even if we can go back to fishing from 4 May, but along the rivers and alone, that has nothing to do with it. This draft law on work in fisheries is a transposition of Directive (EU) 2017/159 implementing the Agreement on the Implementation of the International Labour Organisation Convention on Labour in Fisheries, concluded on 21 May 2012 between the General Confederation of Agricultural Cooperatives of the European Union, the European Workers' Federation and the Association of National Fisheries Organisations of the European Union. The Directive was to be transposed by 15 November 2019. It is therefore important, says my colleague Muylle, to be able to proceed with the procedure as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u138	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u139	Mr Minister, you have obtained three times the urgency, and I congratulate you on that. You work in a house where urgency becomes the rule!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u140	At the request of the authors, I propose that you refer the following motion for a resolution to the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities: At the request of the authors, I propose that the following motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities: - the motion for a resolution (Ms Sofie Merckx and MM. Peter Mertens and Raoul Hedebouw) to accelerate the discovery and development of vaccines and medicines against VOCID-19 and to ensure its accessibility and availability, No. 1166/1. - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Sofie Merckx and Mr Peter Mertens and Mr Raoul Hedebouw) to speed up the discovery and development of vaccines and medicines against COVID-19 and to ensure accessibility and availability, No. 1166/1. This proposal had previously been sent to the Committee on the Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda. This bill was previously sent to the Committee on Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u141	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject and with the exception of Mrs Els Van Hoof's motion for a resolution No 1211/1, which calls for the postponement of the request to take account of her proposal, I shall take the consideration of it as acquired. If there is no objection and with the exception of proposal No. I consider that 1211/1 by Mrs Van Hoof, who asks for the postponement of the request for consideration of her proposal, to be adopted. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. I also propose that you take into account and refer to the committee responsible: the bill (Ms Ludivine Dedonder and Sophie Thémont and Mr Marc Goblet) to protect workers in the arts sector, No 1200/1, from the crisis of the VOCID-19. I would also suggest that you consider it and send it to the committee responsible: the legislative proposal (Mrs Ludivine Dedonder and Mrs Sophie Thémont and Mr Marc Goblet) to protect professionals from the COVID-19 crisis, No. 1200/1. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u142	Mr President, document No. 1193/1 is a legislative proposal that brings excise duties on intermediate products and ethyl alcohol back to the level before November 2015. You will remember that the government significantly increased the excise duty in the previous legislature. This has not had the desired budgetary effect, because all the figures indicate that domestic sales have fallen and have increased enormously in neighbouring countries. Moreover, the sector is particularly affected in this time of corona crisis and could use a little support. That is why we are calling for this proposal to be dealt with urgently.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u143	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u144	Mr President, I am asking for urgency for proposal No 1195/1. In the context of the crisis of the VOCID-19 and the impact on people's purchasing power, this is the debate on the social tariff, in order to see how it can be adapted in this period of health crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u145	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u146	Mr President, we have proposal No 1208/1 on the same subject. I propose that she be treated urgently as the PS's.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u147	This is the proposal to extend the target group for the award of the social tariff. Do we agree to attach this proposal to the previous one? [[Oui]] The two proposals were therefore given urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u148	Mr President, I am asking for urgency for proposal No 1197/1. The resurgence of cases of domestic violence during the confinement period has already been discussed in plenary. This is also in the context of the VOCID-19 crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u149	Mr President, we believe that this proposal belongs in the Walloon Parliament and not here. So we will not support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u150	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u151	Mr President, we are asking for the urgency of proposal No 1202/1, so that we can have volunteers in the rest homes, with the necessary precautions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u152	Mr President, that is an initiative which is in fact consistent with a decision of power of attorney by Minister Muylle. We think this is a strange way of working, and so we will not support the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u153	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u154	Mr President, we are asking for the urgency of proposal No 1204/1. Its subject, that of an ethical and good governance framework for the granting of public aid to enterprises, was mentioned no later than yesterday in a discussion with the Minister of Finance on other aspects related to the conditionalities of public aid. This is part of the same approach, always in connection with VOCID-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u155	Mr President, we believe that COOVID-19 is being abused here, because there is no time limit on some articles, so we do not support the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u156	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u157	Mr President, we are calling for urgency for proposal No 1205/1, which makes the granting of certain State aid conditional on the fulfilment of conditions of solidarity. Aid is given to companies, but it is not intended to be given to certain companies that continue to pay their dividends.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u158	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u159	Mr President, we are asking for the urgency of proposal No 1207/1. As part of the revenue losses related to VOCID-19, there are calculation mechanisms provided for in the current regulations that result in a disproportionate deduction from actual revenues. We call for a transitional amendment of this mechanism. This was discussed yesterday in the Finance Committee in connection with Minister De Croo's bill, but I had already tabled the text. I am open to a solution with Minister De Croo, but I maintain the request for an emergency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u160	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u161	Mr President, we are calling for urgent action on proposal No 1209/1 prohibiting dismissals on the grounds of VOCID-19. This exists in Italy. During the period mentioned above, a law was passed there. We find it urgent because there have already been redundancies. I would like to stress that this is a proposal made in the context of the coronavirus crisis, and not something general. It's in the wording.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u162	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u163	Mr President, we are asking for the urgency of legislative proposal No. 1212/1. We have called for temporary unemployment to give firms some breathing space. When workers are made redundant during this period, it cannot, of course, be the intention that the cancellation should be borne by the government, which will happen if the redundant worker receives a temporary unemployment allowance. We therefore propose a suspension of the cancellation period.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u164	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u165	Mr Lachaert, you are asking for the urgency of legislative proposal No. 1213/1 by Mrs Verhaert on shipping measures. I believe that this text reaches us through the wind from the special powers decisions. Originally, this text was part of a royal decree with special powers, but it was chosen to present it to Parliament. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, for the proposal for which urgency has been acquired, I will have the Council of State's opinion sought within a period of five days.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u167	Mr President, we are asking for the urgency of proposal No 1214/1. This concerns elements which must be taken into account in social dialogue, since they are precisely related to the situation of workers or employers elsewhere. It is a matter of combining the employer's bench and the union bench. That is why we are asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u168	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u169	Mr President, we are asking for the urgency of proposal No 1215/1. Among the economic victims of the crisis we are experiencing are artists. Together with my colleague Chanson, the well-named, and my colleague Willaert, we have tabled a text which we propose that it join other texts under discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs on the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u170	It's the tone that makes the song! I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u171	Last proposal for a law by Mrs Dedonder and Mrs Thémont and Mr Goblet to protect workers in the arts sector from the crisis of the VOCID (No 1200/1). It's kind of the same thing. If the emergency wasn't held up earlier,... Do you make a second attempt?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u172	Yes, Mr. President. For a very simple reason. I just want to point out to my colleagues that they are workers who are under contract of employment, but whose very nature of the activity means that there is a proliferation of employment contracts, i.e. that there are interruptions, which excludes them from the right to temporary unemployment benefits, so that they are almost without income. That is why we are asking for urgency and that this can be dealt with in the form that the urgency allows. I therefore invite my colleagues to consider this and I am indeed asking for a vote again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u173	Yes, Mrs. Moscufo, you can intervene. The debate is still ongoing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u174	Mr President, I want to stress this because we had a debate in the Committee on Social Affairs on the problem of the sector and it seemed to me that there was rather a consensus to bring together all the constructive proposals to solve the problem of this sector. I would therefore be surprised if the urgency were not taken into account in this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u175	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u176	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention. Last week, proposal No. 1170/1 considered. I referred to that yesterday at the Conference of Presidents. It concerns a repair of legislation which was partially destroyed by the Constitutional Court. I used intellectual hygiene last week not to ask for urgency. We would like to see that treatment move forward, especially since it is a remedy following a decision by the Constitutional Court. I would ask you to ask for the opinion of the Council of State, possibly with the support of colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u177	We had indeed said yesterday in the Conference that I would present this to the plenary. We do not engage in a debate on the substance of the case, it concerns legislative work on squatting, destroyed by the Constitutional Court. A new attempt is now being made to Parliament. Without wishing to take a preliminary look at this, there is now this question from Mr Lachaert, with the support of Mr Verherstraeten, I think. In view of the destruction by the Constitutional Court, it may not be an unnecessary luxury to have the opinion of the Council of State. This advice does not bind us to anything, but then we will have a little more legal basis in dealing with the proposal. Can you live with me taking the advice of the Council of State? Or if you get the support of 50 colleagues, Mr Lachaert, then it also goes to the Council of State without having to do so on my own initiative. I see Mr Piedboeuf nodding, as do Mr Verherstraeten, Mrs Pas and Mr De Roover. Then there is a sufficient quorum to ask for the opinion of the Council of State, and I shall do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u178	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Finance and Budget Committee on 21 April 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Finance and Budget of 21 April 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 5/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Benoît Piedboeuf. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 5/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Benoît Piedboeuf. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u179	Mr President, allow me to say that I am concerned about the employment and survival of many businesses in the medium term due to the corona crisis, which will soon emerge from a health crisis into a genuine and unseen economic crisis. I am deeply disturbed by the fact that there are people and ministers in this house who do not want or dare to take up the word recession. Cashflowly, a lot of companies get into trouble. The measures previously taken are a provisional rescue buoy to keep the situation under temporary control, measures which we have supported, but we must dare to go further, ladies and gentlemen. It is now up to the government to help companies to strengthen themselves structurally through own funds and thus to increase solvency. It is the responsibility of the government to help prevent social massacres. The losses that are now accumulated will eat up equity. Good solvency guarantees better chances of obtaining new credits. However, it cannot come from the government alone. There is also a lot of private capital in this country. We have to let that money roll and mobilize. In other words, we must encourage people to invest that capital. In concrete terms, we are asking the government to take measures by developing tax incentives for capital injections to guide private money to companies. We must protect our jobs and our businesses. Parliament owes this to the people, to the workers who are at risk of losing their jobs, and to the companies who have to ensure that the economy continues to run. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you not to support the simple motion and to proceed to the real order of the day, namely to ensure that our people are still working after the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u180	Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u181	Yes 94 Yes No. [[27]] No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 144 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u182	Mr President, could you add Mr Moutquin's vote? He's trying to connect. He voted in favour of the simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u183	Mr. Moutquin voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u184	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 145 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1144/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1144/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u185	Mr President, Mr Moutquin voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u186	Mr President, I was unable to vote on the previous vote either. I just checked, but it didn't work. Can you remind me of what we voted on right now?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u187	The previous vote concerned civil security.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u188	I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u189	So you personally, and the Ecolo member. Are you sure?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u190	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u191	So that's two more votes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u192	Mr President, can we just keep the agreement we made at the Conference of Presidents, in particular that the problems are reported before the end of the vote and not afterwards? Otherwise, we will have problems again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u193	I am also of the opinion that it should simply be reported. We did the same last time. We take the result of the vote and if for one reason or another certain Members have not voted, this is indicated to the services. That's not a problem. Thank you, Mrs Kitir. Otherwise, we will have to supplement the result every time. You have a point.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u194	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 116 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 30 Abstensions Total 147 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1161/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1161/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u195	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 147 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1162/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1162/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u196	Vote on Amendment No 15 by Nadia Moscufo on Article 6. (1159/6) Vote on Amendment No. 15 by Nadia Moscufo to Article 6. (1159/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[60]] Yes No. 87 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 147 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u197	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 123 Yes No. 23 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 146 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1159/7) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1159/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-30-55-plenair-ip038x.u198	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, May 7, 2020 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 7 May 2020 at 2.15 p.m.
