ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u1	I have a list of the members who asked the ministers a question. I'll give them the floor in turn. Everyone is free to speak or to refer to his or her written questions. It is not up to the Speaker or a majority of this House to bar someone from speaking. For the full record, members must report whether they refer to their written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u2	Mr President, in fact, nothing changes! Any Member may refer to his written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u3	Mr President, I have a number of questions and for most of them I refer to my written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u4	One pressing question to which I do not receive an answer, Minister, is what the scientific added value of the antigen test you allowed on the market at the end of March, for which you ordered it to be purchased. I'll ask the question again. How many tests have been purchased since that validation? I would also like to hear the sensitivity, accuracy and specificity of this test. There was talk of 70 %. Is that right? Does that turn out to be true in practice? What's the full budget that went to those antigen rapid tests? The same with regard to antibody tests, but there I refer to my written question. As far as the mouth masks are concerned, I would like to know whether they have been distributed to those areas where the need is greatest. Different entities, both the regions and the federal government, have purchased these mouth masks. How did this division happen? Did that happen on the grounds of necessity or not? Another question I have already asked is whether you take into account in the exit strategy that the general practitioner and the house pharmacist can play an important role in this and ensure that people are tested. I read in the newspaper today that you indicate that the GP will be able to decide to proceed to testing as soon as a patient shows symptoms. Has that already been incorporated into a directive? After all, I still do not see that on the website of Sciensano. Finally, disinfecting the premises will also be very important in the exit strategy. Now they use Nocospray to disinfect the triage centers. Businesses may need that, too, as well as residential care centres when they allow visitors. Do you have enough of that? Will you anticipate this trend?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u5	Mr President, I have only tabled one question. It is the same question for both ministers. I therefore hope that it will be answered and will refer to the question put in writing. At the same time, that does not mean that all the other questions I have asked have been answered. I hope, therefore, that I will soon receive a written answer to all the questions that have not been answered last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u6	Mr President, since my questions are also the same for the third time in a row, namely questions about the healthcare sector, I would also like to refer again to the previous series and to my question. I put the questions together again. These are three very specific questions about the care staff in hospitals, about home care and about the protective equipment for them. I've been asking those three questions for three weeks now. I hope that we will receive an answer in return for referring to the question submitted in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u7	In addition, I would like to refer to Giesecke's study, where the Stockholm case shows that more than a third have already built up group immunity, although there are much less stringent quarantine measures. However, it is a city with a million inhabitants on an area limited to that number of inhabitants. Madam Secretary, Minister, have you taken note of the study? What is your opinion on this in the context of the quarantine measures we have taken? That is a topical question I would like to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u8	At the N-VA there was another question from Mr Freilich. However, I do not know if he is present. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u9	Mr President, may I suggest that his question is simply taken away if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u10	I do assume that she will be dealt with in the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u11	Mr President, Mrs Creemers is on another committee. Ms. Sarah Schlitz will speak first.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u12	Mrs Schlitz, would you like to refer to your written questions or would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u13	Mr President, in view of the configuration that suits me, I refer to the written texts of my first three questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u14	I would like to make two points in relation to the risks of stock ruptures that are of great concern to health actors working for sexual and reproductive health and risk reduction. Yesterday they sent a letter to Mrs De Block asking her again about the potential shortages of equipment needed for their trade. I have addressed this question to Mr. De Backer, but I would like Mrs De Block to be able to reply as well. This would really ease the sector's need for an inventory of the reserves that we have, in collaboration with the federated entities, and for a strategic stock of the necessary equipment to be established as soon as possible. The second element concerns access to contraception. The answer I got last week was not satisfactory to me. The fact that women can go to pharmacy with a RID code does not at all guarantee access to contraception during this particular period. I recall the fact that women are the victims of control by a violent or hypercontrolling spouse, as well as the digital divide of women in great insecurity. We therefore reiterate our request to have access to contraceptives in pharmacies without having to submit a prescription.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u15	Mr President, I come back to the three questions of last week. As far as psychiatric hospitals are concerned, how is it that they have not yet received protective equipment? As for my second question on the government's strategy for serological testing, I refer to the text of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u16	Finally, with regard to the testing policy and, more specifically, the PCR tests, the government has announced, since 4 April 2020, that it has a capacity of 10,000 tests. However, the average of the last five days has still not exceeded the 6,000 tests. Can you explain what's going on and tell us what's blocking? No one understands where the block is. Thank you for your precise answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u17	Minister, several physiotherapists had to reduce their activity due to the crisis. They are recommended to treat only patients who require urgent care. Some practitioners fully comply with the directive and therefore give up interventions considered non-emergency. On the other hand, others do not apply these rules and respond positively to patients who have received a negative response from their colleagues. Therefore, Madam Minister, should we not further mark these interventions and eliminate this inequality? Two other questions relate to testing and its distribution among regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u18	Secondly, we support access to non-prescription contraception, which we have already asked you several times. On the other hand, as far as screening tests are concerned, we are promised 10,000. Their maximum number is barely 8,000. The reasons given are the lack of staff and labs, as well as too limited screening criteria. I asked you about the criteria. A minister told us that they needed to be expanded seriously. However, the only small modification at the Sciensano site is the removal of fever from the symptoms seen in health personnel. If it is for this reason that the 10,000 tests are not completed, it is obviously high time to extend the screening criteria. Finally, the Belgian company ZenTech has entered production to provide tests. However, no formal contract has been concluded at this time. In addition, we do not know what is happening with the reimbursement of tests for patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u19	"You announced, several weeks ago, an increase in our screening capacity, to reach 10,000 daily tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u20	Minister, I would like to emphasize the need for a clear and precise federal response to the question of the wearing of the mask by citizens. A few moments ago, the Union des Villes et Communes instructed you to take your responsibilities by making the masks available. I hope to get a pragmatic response from you to the needs of the public.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u21	Mr President, I would also like to refer to my written questions, in the hope that I will receive answers now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u22	I would like to add two questions to that. A first question I would like to add concerns the test capacity. I would like to hear what is happening now, whether we are already getting 10,000 tests a day and whether there is cooperation with the clinical labs, or whether those tests are only carried out by the pharmaceutical. If the pharma and the clinical labs are working together, I think we can get rapper to an increased number of tests a day. How many tests are being carried out a day? Are the clinical labs eligible for these tests? How come the clinical labs, in order to get 10,000 tests a day, weren't ready? My second additional question concerns the exit strategy. I suspect the schools will open up as one of the first, perhaps phased. In order to maintain the currently flattened curve, I wonder if teachers will be tested. The group of teachers is large and also has many vulnerable members, and I am thinking of older teachers. Will infected teachers be quarantined if necessary? I would also like to know whether the relaxation of the lockdown will be accompanied by a further acceleration of the number of tests and whether there is already a plan of action.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u23	Minister, Minister, following last week's discussions, I would like to ask you again about drugs, chronic patients, specialist consultations, and advances in treatment and definity. 1. On the issue of drug accessibility, a joint statement between AFMPS and ABSyM occurred on Friday night. This is obviously good news. There appears to be a lack of accurate communication and exchange of information. Could you tell us when the question of the use of the legal form can be resolved? Have the emergency aid service and the teams managing the flow of deliveries to hospitals had to be strengthened? Finally, Minister, can you give us an update on the supply of raw materials through local production? 2. As far as treatment is concerned, I have already asked you twice about the progress of clinical studies but have not received an answer. You told me last week that the Federal Centre of Expertise was following three studies without more information on results or on the potential efficacy of molecules to treat patients with VOCID-19. However, I read in L'Echo last night that no study had started in our country. Could you tell me why? 3. With regard to the observed decrease in the treatment of patients with chronic diseases in the face of apprehension and fear of consulting with the patient head, you recalled last week the precautionary and awareness measures implemented, but do we have a clear picture of this situation? What information is provided to front-line professionals? This Saturday, April 18, we were able to see the appeal of the federation of medical specialists. Very concretely, can you tell me, minister, what is planned for hospital and extra-hospital consultations quickly? In this respect, I have been able, on several occasions, like other colleagues, to ask you when extra-hospital specialist doctors will receive masks, which still does not seem to be the case. However, this equipment is necessary for them to be able to treat and see their patients again. What planning is planned to allow for these consultations? In the context of the gradual decoupling, the issue of the transmission of information and guidelines to local entities is really important. I just want to draw your attention to the fact that communities are eager for accurate and consistent guidelines for wearing the mask, for the type of mask, as well as testing and guidelines for general practitioners and home care providers. Finally, at the school level, could you tell us in what form inter-institutional coordination is structured, as well as coordination between the organizing and scientific authorities and experts in the deconfining process?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u24	Minister, considered non-essential, shops specializing in the sale of electronic cigarette equipment are closed. The Royal Decree of 28 October 2016 prohibits the online sale of electronic cigarettes in Belgium. This order also refers - and I am simplifying - to the associated products. So Dampers can't replenish their stock. We know that the system helps a lot of people to quit smoking more easily. With an e-cigarette you can gradually reduce nicotine intake. Our neighbouring countries, with the exception of Luxembourg, allow the online sale of the e-cigarette, both at national and European level. In France and Italy, the outlets for electronic cigarettes, which had to close at the outset, were rapidly granted exceptional permission to reopen. Madam Minister, what solutions are there at the moment to help users of the e-cigarette to stop smoking permanently? Can a relaxation be envisaged for these companies? Then I come to my second question. Pharmaceutical companies around the world are urgently looking for antivirals to combat the corona crisis. To do so, they use substances that are active against viruses such as HIV, another pandemic that is still raging. On 1 April, FAGG indicated on its website that hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine are used to treat patients with COVID-19. Kaletra, a combination of lopinavir and ritonavir, is also an antiviral medicine used to treat seropositive patients. In addition, the same agency stated that the available stocks of the three medicines mentioned above had been quarantined in order to control their distribution, to allow better monitoring of their use and to limit the risks to patients. On the AFMPS site, it is also stated that it is very important that health care professionals use hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine only for authorized indications or in clinical trials or emergency programs for the treatment of VOCID-19. As we can see, the Kaletra is absent from this reflection. Madam Secretary, to what extent is Kaletra used to treat patients with COVID-19? Has the demand for Kaletra and other medicines for the treatment of HIV patients increased? Is there a risk that HIV-positive patients may have to interrupt treatment with that medicine?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u25	Mrs Dock, I would ask you to speak a little more slowly in order to facilitate the work of the interpreters.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u26	Madam Minister, I refer to my questions. The fact that the corona crisis weighs on the general well-being of people proved once again after the regrettable case of a 91-year-old woman who ran away from a rest home because she could no longer cope with isolation. You have extended the psychological care measure to 65-plussers. Yesterday Wouter Beke also rolled out a plan for mental health. It is good that you have extended the measure, but there are still thresholds in the system. For example, there is evidence from the sector itself that too few psychologists have been contracted and that the planned behaviour is far too low. Madam Secretary, what will you do to remove the thresholds from the system so that the system can be used for those who need it very much?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u27	Madam Minister, last week I barely received an answer to my question to outline the evolution of the epidemic in the residential care centres in our country. Fifty-two percent of the deaths of COVID-19 took place in the residential care centers. Moreover, the vast majority of new infections in residential care centres are also identified. I really wanted you, as responsible for combating the epidemic, to give a clear overview of the number of residential care centres in the 1 500 residential care centres where the epidemic is or is not under control. After all, it is really not right to leave the treatment of the epidemic in residential care centres to the regions alone. The Special Law of 6 January 2014 of the Sixth State Reform expressly states that prophylactic measures are a federal competence. It is therefore necessary for the federal government to take preventive measures in relation to the very specific coronavirus outbreak in those centres. Today it is announced that testing will be carried out in all residential care centres. According to our calculations, 200,000 people need to be tested. At the rhythm of testing in the residential care centers of the past three days we will not have tested all residential care centers until 12 June. That's a first problem. A second problem is that one test will not be enough. Professor Goossens pointed out that anyone who tested negative today should be able to be tested again, especially the staff. In addition, the directives need to be revised, inter alia, in which staff continue to work, even if a family member has COOVID-19. Otherwise, we will not be able to control the epidemic in residential care centres. A second question is the increase in screening capacity. In the last 24 hours, we've only had 5,200 tests. In addition to the laboratories that expressed their dissatisfaction with not being to the maximum of their capacity, we also saw an exit from the Red Cross at that level. They also stated that the capacity of their laboratories was not fully utilized. [[This is a very serious situation.]] This morning, you announced in De Standaard a change that would take place in the coming weeks and that we, general practitioners, could do tests. That is positive and I would like to welcome this decision of the Risk Management Group. It is now important not to repeat the same mistakes made in nursing homes. Here are my questions. How are you going to equip all doctors so that they can perform these tests safely? How will you ensure that all general practitioners are properly trained? And thirdly, will the possibility of testing as a doctor also be accompanied by the possibility of isolating sick people and their contacts? Indeed, we know that 44% of the contamination takes place before people show symptoms. We therefore need to test, but then we have to isolate the people and also trace, that is to say propose to the contacts of these people to be tested. It's the only way to stem this epidemic. You also announced that we are going to set up tracing teams. Two thousand people are announced this morning in De Tijd. It is also very positive, and I would like to point out that on 11 March, with the PTB, we tabled an amendment here proposing the setting up of tracking and testing teams to go to the field. But we also wonder how this will be organised, how efficiently, throughout the territory, and again, I refer to the law of 6 January 2014 on prophylaxis. We are there and need a comprehensive and coordinated approach. Finally, I would like to share with you our question: What is the status of the equipment of general practitioners and home nurses? They really need protective equipment that goes further than the masks they receive today. Today, positive people at VOCID-19 leave hospitals and nurses refuse to take care of them. This makes sense because they do not have the necessary protective equipment. How are you going to organize this? If people leave the hospital and return home, but if they are not cared for by nurses, by home care, by doctors working with the correct equipment, we may also face problems, deaths due to a lack of follow-up. Recently, what about the resumption of chronic care, the resumption of cancer care among others? We have not received much concrete information about this on Friday, yet everyone says it: it is an emergency. Otherwise, we will have serious mortality and morbidity problems related to non-VOCID pathologies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u28	In addition, I would like to join with the questions on the use of mouth masks by the general public in the context of the exit strategy. After all, I notice that, especially since yesterday, municipal authorities are even beginning to want to distribute oral masks similar to a bid. That goes from one mouth mask per family to one mouth mask per inhabitant. I would have liked to have heard from Minister De Backer what his opinion is on such initiatives, which now arise from local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u29	Last time, I asked a question about the use of mouth masks in the context of the exit strategy, which Mr De Caluwé just mentioned. I suppose we will have an answer to that question today, since it failed last week. My next question is to get more information about the Children in Trouble platform, which you mentioned briefly, Madam Minister. However, I have escaped what that was all about. I'm kind of interested in that subject. Mr Minister, today I read that the analysis capacity of the Red Cross would now be used. I would have liked to have heard the correct explanation why that lab has been deprived of work before, while everyone screams for PCR tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u30	Mr Bertels also had two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u31	Mr President, Mr Bertels had to be in the Finance Committee. He was hoping to come back. I don't know what's going on in that committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u32	I assume he refers to his written questions. Mrs Fonck, you have the record with fourteen questions!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u33	It's not a record for pleasure, Mr. President! I would like to refer to the texts I have tabled concerning the situation of nursing homes, the composition of decision-making structures, the symptomatology of anosmia and dysgueusia, immunoglobulin treatment, the premium of caregivers, the certification of serological tests, the extension of testing guidelines and the epidemiological study.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u34	Mr President, I now turn to the strengthening of screening capabilities. First of all, Mr. De Backer, with regard to diagnostic screening, you told us that you were open to freedom from the prescriber. However, Sciensano's overly restrictive directives are still in force. I therefore hope that the actions will follow the words. Also in the PCR component, mention should be made of mass screening. We still stay below the 10,000 daily PCR tests promised. In the past three weeks, their number varies from 2,000 to 7,750. I would therefore like to clarify the reasons why we remain below the declared capacity. The famous consortium of three pharmaceutical companies and two universities manages this mass screening. However, the real question is: is this consortium capable of carrying out the 10,000 daily tests? How many tests are sent daily to the labs in this group? Agreements have been concluded between Sciensano and various laboratories. I am thinking in particular of the platforms that were developed on the basis of the work done by the University of Namur. Thus, I remember that Mr. Emmanuel André had validated at a press conference this mass screening which is based on a different technique, not at all appealing to reagents in need. This demonstrates a good additional theoretical and operational capability, which can maximize testing and mass screening capabilities. Is it not time to unite all the energies and add these platforms to the consortium to carry out mass screening, especially since these are conventions validated and carried out by Sciensano? This brings me to the third major aspect of serological testing. At this level, we're waiting for certifications. There's the ZenTech project. There is also the Snib project (?) Saint-Luc University Clinics with automatons that allow to have very fast results and whose specificity is to have IgMs and IgGs, which allows to bring a lot of elements on the clinical level. All this is interesting, from the moment that, beyond screening, one has the ability to trace contacts, to detect them and, eventually, to isolate them if they prove to be positive. I would therefore like to mention today also the aspect of tracing and tracking with strict guarantees that must be provided. This would allow each of us to be better protected, but also to avoid a rebound that could occur after the confinement exit. In conclusion, as others have already done, I would like to convey the concerns of a large number of medical specialists and hospitals about chronic or non-chronic patients who do not necessarily report to the hospital that their problem is not acute or urgent when it may be. This is particularly the case at the level of oncology, where an unusual subdiagnosis is recorded for the moment. It would therefore be necessary to review the guidelines for consultation and care and thus avoid the possibility of delaying care leading to very severe problems. I also refer to the text tabled concerning fabric masks intended for the general public. Indeed, while some municipalities have taken the lead, others are waiting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u35	I had eight questions. I refer to the written text of the first five, concerning the abandonment of urgent care not related to coronavirus, the development of self-tests of screening, the management of on-call medical stations during the health crisis, the transfer of blood plasma to treat coronavirus and the management of seniors with coronavirus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u36	For the other three, I refer to my written questions and wish to add elements and questions related to topicality. With regard to visits to nursing homes, they were banned until further notice, since the consultation committee returned to the decision of the National Security Council last Wednesday, stipulating that all staff and residents of nursing homes should first be tested. That is exactly what I suggested to you in committee last Friday, before this famous decision. I am therefore satisfied, but it calls for follow-up questions which are essential. How will rest homes be associated with government thinking? How can we ensure that visits are organized safely in cases where staff members have been tested positive? Can binding isolation measures be provided for? Will the current screening campaign include direct home patients or, in any case, the visitor who would be designated by the resident? If not, are other measures planned? In some rest homes measures such as plexiglas protection windows are deployed. Who carries out these tests, transports them and analyses the results? Is it possible to multiply the mobile teams that carry out these tests? For example, an initiative was launched in the Brussels Region by the CHU Saint-Pierre with the support of the City of Brussels. Finally, it is expected that the National Security Council meeting this Friday will evaluate a new presumed date to allow visits to rest homes in the best possible conditions. As regards the wearing of the mask, no later than Sunday, Brulocalis, the association of the City and the municipalities of the Brussels Region, sent an e-mail to the nineteen communes stating that the federal government would have returned to its commitment to launch a national mask production line. The latter would only undertake to make available to the population the masks as such, but the filters to be applied to them. For his part, Minister Geens stated that the discussions were still ongoing. It's a little cacophony compared to the widespread wearing of the mask so that today, the communes manage as well as badly. Some of them place orders. Others ensure that even in the communes these masks can be made. Still others refuse to commit themselves to anything, believing that the decision must be taken at the federal level. I really expect clarification on this point. Let me end with my question about serological tests. Many tests are developed by companies and universities. This is the case with ZenTech, which has just announced that it has launched the production of these test kits without the approval of the Federal Medicines Agency or a government order or contract. At the same time, experts at the Crisis Centre recognize that these tests are really of extreme importance. The problem is that many unknowns remain as to the immunity that would actually be developed by the body after an infection with coronavirus. Thus, WHO has just asked states to use serological tests with caution. To what extent will the government be able to take these developments into account, as well as the recommendations just announced by WHO? Finally, as my colleagues have mentioned, what about ZenTech's certification today for the provision of these famous serological tests?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u37	Mr. Chair, Minister, Minister, I would like to ask a question about the statements made by the Prime Minister on the organization of the tests. Wilmès said this weekend in the daily Le Soir that the capacity of 10,000 tests a day was the ability of laboratories to analyze 10,000 samples a day and determine whether they were positive or negative. But before that, you need doctors and people who can do tests. And now we're not 10,000. Test capacity is available, but they are not always performed. This number will increase as we move forward. I would, of course, like to take Minister De Backer, who said on 25 March that he was almost 10 000 tests, that there was nothing to be feared and that that number would be reached. So my question is quite simple. She's speaking to Mr. Backer. We're not going to ask you what Sophie Wilmès said. We would just like to know, from an operational point of view, how you will do so that the tests can take place. Should vans be used? Making connections between laboratories and hospitals? Do we need more labs? It's your in-house kitchen. The question that everyone is asking is: when will we finally have enough tests done? My second question concerns the massive screening of the Belgian population in the fight against VOCID-19. WHO's recommendations for maximum testing of the population are known. Today, the Royal Academies of Medicine, Francophone and Dutch speaking gathered, recommend tests for people. They say that this will help to combat the resurgence of the epidemic at the time of deconfination. I would like to point out here that countries such as Korea have managed through massive screening campaigns. We're talking about 300,000 tests when they already had very few cases. They have also resorted to isolation of infected persons, and technological tracing. It was thanks to all this that they were able to find the way to deconfinity. They tested the people who have been in contact with some people. This strategy has been brilliant.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u38	Mr Kir, may I ask you to proceed directly to the questions? Many have made the effort to be quite concise.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u39	I will then move on to my two questions. I could do it if you hadn't cut me off, Mr. President. Here's my first question. Should we not also organise the testing of the population, starting with the workers in the essential trades in order to obtain a precise opinion on the threshold of contamination of the Belgian population? It is necessary to start a more stringent quarantine work – not as it is today, where it is rather lax – of infected people, which is necessary for deconfinity. Secondly, Mr. Chairman, Mr. De Backer and Mrs. De Block, should we not also do filiation work? This means that when a person has been tested and found to be positive, it is necessary to isolate that person and then find all the people who have been in contact with him. These people should be tested first and foremost. I think that's what a lot of people think about the population. The only way to stem the epidemic is to ensure that people who have been infected and all those who have been in contact with them are encircled. That means changing your shoulder rifle, that you have to steer the policy completely. I ask the ministers to take their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u40	Mrs Reuter, we agreed that there was a need to be concise.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u41	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to ask you about all the serious diseases that must continue to be dealt with. One realizes that a large proportion of Belgians cancel their medical appointments following this pandemic, probably for fear of going either to a doctor or to a hospital, despite the urgency and the need to have a true medical follow-up. Minister, will there be a campaign to raise awareness and encourage these patients to continue their treatment? Can you confirm to me that a safety protocol is in place, particularly in hospitals, so that patients who are not affected by VOCID-19 can still go there without fear of being contaminated at this time of the pandemic?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u42	Minister, I refer to the text of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u43	I leave half an hour to the ministers to answer, to be divided among them. We will then have about 20 minutes for the replicas, i.e. one minute per member.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to look at all the questions. As far as antigen testing is concerned, Coris BioConcept is a company that offers antigen testing. We said with the federal government that those tests could come on the market. The hospitals bought them themselves. So the federal government itself has not purchased any tests from that company, which went directly to the hospitals. It is an antigen test that can play a role in the triage of patients in hospitals and can thus quickly determine whether one is positive or negative. If the result is negative, a PCR test should still be carried out because both the positive and negative ratio is definitely not good enough. The main purpose of the test is to allow patients to have a rapid triage in hospitals. The hospitals buy those tests themselves. I have no idea how many tests have been distributed and carried out on Belgian territory. We have placed the responsibility on the hospitals and on the companies. We have very mixed reactions to this. It is up to the hospitals and doctors to determine whether they have confidence in that test and whether those who will continue to use it in the future. As regards the distribution of mouth masks, orders are made at both federal and regional level. The regions provide their own entities, so they have better figures at Flemish, Walloon and Brussels levels than I do at the federal level. I have a visual on what we've divided out of the federal stock. I do that report twice a week. I can give you the last report we sent out on Saturday. There is no real agreement on how many are distributed, but there are criteria. The RMG has established priority criteria. And every order that comes in is distributed according to those priorities. I can give you one number. In the last week, we have distributed approximately 10 million surgical masks between hospitals and outpatient care professions. That division is still under way. In principle, all occupational groups in that list should receive part of those 10 million surgical masks. In connection with the exit strategy, the GEES and others are of course working hard to shape that exit strategy. Testing plays a very important role in this. I would like to say two more things about this. Firstly, we have long been at the capacity of 10,000 tests a day. So the problem is not capacity, the problem is the supply of steel. That has to do with several things. As I said last time, this has to do with the very rigid criteria used before a patient can be tested. We saw a first enlargement last week. I was informed last night that there will be another enlargement. This will appear on Sciensano's website shortly. Then we will be testing in a way that will bring more samples to the platform and other clinical labs, so the capacity will be used much better effectively. That has always been our intention. Secondly, that capacity continues to grow. We're not sitting still. We aim to expand capacity even further by the time the exit strategy starts to run effectively. This concerns PCR testing in hospitals and clinical labs. With regard to the residential care centres, we have divided in a first wave 20,000 tests, to allow the regions to set priorities themselves, to choose which residential care centres they wanted to test in any way, to get a look at what was currently going on in the various residential care centres. We then said that there had to be a different approach, that it had to be more structured. I then proposed to effectively test residential care center per residential care center, because it would give a broad view of infection in both residents and staff. One can therefore take measures per rest home or per collectivity. The intention is, of course, to do so as soon as possible. That is why we have now used the maximum capacity for testing and bring thousands of wipers on site every day. The regions distribute those with the necessary medical equipment over the rest homes to take the samples. We note, however, that there is a problem in this area, because sometimes it takes days for us to get those wipers back and we are told that the samples have been taken. This has to do with delays in the field and the organisation is in the hands of the regions. We are now in full consultation to optimise logistics. After all, there is a constant delay in the reduction and return of 20% to 25% of the samples. As a result, the different labs do not run at full capacity. That is very frustrating, first and foremost for the labs but even more so for the people who are waiting to be tested. Since the beginning of this week, we have therefore decided to bring more erasers into the field so that more tests can be carried out. We try to make full use of the available capacity for the residential care centres. We are constantly in consultation with the regions to see how we can improve logistics to take advantage of the full capacity of 10,000 samples. So there's a double reason why we still haven't passed those 10,000 tests. Firstly, the restrictive criteria are only slightly extended by the experts. They want to support that scientifically, something I understand and support, but we must also be able to make progress. We have done so effectively in the last week. By the way, we are already working on a test strategy for serology. In fact, serological and immunity tests will play an important role in, for example, the epidemiological monitoring of the population. There will also be retests. If, for example, new cases appear in rest homes, then the classic link between coordination doctor and clinical lab can be used. In this way, we can identify new patients very quickly. If we want to deconfinish, it is clear that a system is needed to detect positive patients fairly quickly, as well as the contacts they had two or three days earlier. The Regions will be responsible for setting up this tracing contact. We have already discussed with them, and we must now move forward in this direction. Medical prevention is a regional competence but we will support federated entities in this task through testing and other means if necessary. For example, we can increase the test capacity by adding more labs. That's what we're doing right now. Furthermore, we are also considering whether we could provide further support with mobile teams, so that the tests in the residential care centres can be carried out more quickly. There was a question about stock failures. I have already indicated the number of masks, blouses and gloves that we have distributed in previous weeks for people working in health care. We have already distributed 18 million surgical masks, 10 million this week. We distributed nearly 1 million FFP2 as well as blouses. Does this mean that the shortage is over? No. We follow up with hospitals and the health care sector to be well informed of their requests. It will be important to avoid shortages in the coming weeks. For example, in some rest homes in Brussels, we have been able to provide equipment. We distribute the equipment as orders are received. Psychiatric hospitals also benefit from the distribution of equipment. For testing, we have provided some of our capacity for federally dependent communities. We are already testing symptomatic patients. There was also a question about the further development of the tests. I think (...) the serological testing is almost complete. In the exit strategy, we must also provide a clear vision of the role that serological tests can play. In referring to the World Health Organization, one speaker called for caution about serological testing. That's the same message I've always expressed. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u45	Apparently, there's a technical problem. Proceed, Mr. De Backer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u46	The World Health Organization recalled the need to be careful with serological tests, which should be validated before accepting their reliability. That is exactly the message I have been expressing in the House for the past three weeks. It is not enough to accept the CE marking, as the tests must be validated before they are distributed on the Belgian market. This is essential, because many tests are unreliable. But they must be so so that we can accomplish this serological antibody strategy in the coming weeks. That is why we are in the process of checking with INAMI that the two criteria are taken into account before any reimbursement of the tests. Another question concerned the material for future tests for, among others, the general practitioners. We are indeed looking at how, if we expand the test capacity, we can test more widely. There, general practitioners and triage centres are important in the first place. We must indeed provide sufficient material to enable the tests to be carried out safely. That is why it is important to work with the general practitioners and triage centres to see how best to organise this. As regards contact tracing, if the close contacts of a patient who has a postive test should also be tested, it is not advisable that they should wait in the busy waiting room of the general practitioner. They could go to a separate point. The triage centres would be suitable for this purpose. There is currently a debate on how best to follow that up in practice. With that, I think I've answered the most important questions. The discussion between Sciensano and RMG on the extension of criteria is almost over. Next, I can provide you with figures on the capacities and tests launched on the market for nursing homes. I can assure you, Mrs Fonck, that universities - particularly those in Liège - are part of this consortium, together with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. I understand your frustration, as long as there aren't enough samples coming in. I've already given the reasons. On the one hand, hospitals must apply certain criteria. On the other hand, it drags a bit on the side of the tests that we have put on the market. That is why we are working with the Regions, which must carry out these tests, on how to improve this logistical process. I think I've addressed all the issues, including contact tracing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u47	I'll get back to the other questions. Mrs. Gijbels, post-mortem investigation would be possible. It could provide us with more epidemiological data. Two reservations on the matter. Firstly, we make a choice: if more tests are possible, we use them to test living people. Secondly, a post-mortem investigation cannot be taken into account by the RIZIV. That is the case for tests in living people. If someone died, the test will no longer be covered by the insurance. In that case, the test should be paid for by the family. On the issue of stock disruptions, a press release was issued by Dr Devos and ABSyM. For contraception, I have already said that there are different ways to proceed. A doctor's prescription can be sent directly to the pharmacist for an extension, possibly after a telephone consultation, or a RID code can be used to obtain the pill. There were questions about hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine phosphate from Mrs Sneppe, Mrs Depoorder and Mrs Dock. At present, it is only about off-label use. Preference should be given to including patients in clinical trials. If this is not possible, these substances can still be prescribed for off-label use. For this there are regular updates of the guide. Mrs Schlitz, you asked for the figures on the number of terminations of pregnancy. This is not possible at the moment because there is not yet an assigned nomenclature number. To do this, we have to check hospital bills. We will then need some time before we can access this data. We could do it later, but not now at the same time as the crisis. Ms. Taquin insisted on clarifying the drug situation. I hope you have received the clarification that was made by Professor. Devos. Mrs Fonck, the epidemiological study will begin tomorrow, Wednesday, April 22. The first point will be measured in hospitals from 22 to 26 April. We're waiting for the first results on May 6. The results of serological tests will depend on availability. The aim is to measure and monitor the prevalence, seroprevalence and seroconversion of the virus among healthcare professionals in Belgian hospitals. The study is a prospective cohort study with seven measurement points until September 2020. The study population is representative of all health professionals in Belgium. Participants are made up of sixteen randomly selected hospitals and, in each hospital, 50 health professionals who are also randomly selected. Mrs Taquin, a study is being carried out in Epidemiological Sciensano and Sciensano lab which concerns immunovirology. This study requires a long explanation, so I will send it to you in writing because I am short of time. Mrs. Sneppe, you had a question last week about a study on blood types. I have the written explanation at the disposal of the report. We can also send them. Only one study has been used for that. Nothing else was found about it. As regards kinesi therapy for people with disabilities or those who have recently undergone surgery, Mrs Tillieux, Mr De Caluwe, no distinction is made between the sick. This is the case both in our hospitals and for home care. No distinction is made for patients with disabilities. These measures apply to the Belgian population as a whole. Just as with doctors, physiotherapists with symptoms are obviously called upon to isolate themselves and to call on colleagues to ensure the continuity of their patients' care. For patients with VOCID-19, it is recommended that the care plan be discussed with the physician. It was also recommended that all care that is not urgent and whose postponement is unlikely to lead to a state of deterioration of the patient's health should be deferred. The Federal Council for Kinesitherapy has recently issued a recommendation to professionals which provides some guidance to professionals on the interpretation of the limitation of care and on the necessary and urgent treatments, including patients with respiratory disease, such as cystic fibrosis, patients in acute post-operative situations, patients with certain neurological disorders such as multiple sclerosis, tetra or paraplegic patients, patients treated with chemotherapy and patients in palliative care who continue to receive physiotherapy during this health crisis. The longer the confinement continues, the more the physiotherapists will have to reassess this decision. If care is to be provided, it is recommended that maximum priority be given to telephone or audio-visual consultations. INAMI has taken the necessary steps to support front-line consultations by telephone. The question of reimbursement of tests falls within the competence of Mr. Backer who's already answered. This brings me to Mrs H annoyance's question about mental health care and the situation in psychiatric hospitals. Some care - not just psychiatric hospitals - has been wrongly postponed. The aim now is to make the most of this unwarranted delay of care. In principle, all new admitted patients will be tested, regardless of whether they have symptoms or not. This is the opinion of the RMG that was issued last night. Psychiatric hospitals were provided with protective equipment. We are finalizing a new delivery of surgical masks for this same target group. It's Philippe De Backer who takes care of it. The distribution is based on the distribution key approved by the Risk Management Group. I will send the answer to Ms. Dock's question on HIV drugs. Actually, it's very technical. To Mr Warmoes' question about the difference between urgent and non-emergency care for dentists, this is a Sciensano directive. It is up to the Risk Assessment Group and the Risk Management Group to decide. Until now, only urgent consultations could be carried out, following a telephone consultation with the attending dentist and a referral to dentists working together with available protective equipment. I had received a question from Mr Bertels, but he was absent. I will send the answer because it was an important question about the ambulances and the brake money for them. The transport by ambulance between the hospitals is not paid and is fully covered by the hospital. Mrs Schlitz, I come to pregnant women. A list of FPS Public health including midwives working at home on the basis of a data linkage between the cadastre of health professionals in the right to prescribe and the data of INAMI exists. This was the second occupational group involved in this distribution. Midwives received approximately 3.5 million masks, after home nurses. I think that there is no problem for this group to receive protection, which is essential to their work. There were still questions about medical specialists. Ms. Taquin's question was about consulting with hospital specialists. A consultation between the Public Health FPS and the representatives of the specialists took place, to examine how things will happen, when normal functions in hospitals will be resumed, and when the number of patients VOCID-19 will decrease. We must see how we can take up certain tasks to avoid problems, and see if a rebound is to be feared if we resume all at the same time. Mrs Van Hoof, we have already taken many initiatives. I see the clinical psychologists are asking for an emergency budget. I wonder what is holding them back from using the budget that has been extended for the consultations of the 18-year-olds and the 65-plussers. If that is not fully used up, I do not see why another budget should be added. Mrs Merckx, the investigation into which residential care centres the situation is under control is still under way. Our colleagues in the Länder will keep us informed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. You say that prophylactic measures are a federal competence, but the fight against infectious diseases has been an exclusive state matter since 2014. However, we have called for the help of health and we have worked with men and power, with the army, with the hospitals, with Mr De Backer for the tests, to get everything under control. Ms Jiroflée, for the exit strategy, the group led by Professor Vlieghe should advise the government, more specifically the nuclear cabinet. This Friday, the National Security Council will have to give its opinion on how to proceed until 3 May. That group should be given the opportunity to give its findings, both for the economic aspect and for the public health aspect. They don't have to be conflicting interests. It is certainly the intention that our economy should be restarted and that we should resume life in schools and social life. We must not, however, end up in greater difficulties than we are today. Mrs Fonck, for the situation in nursing homes, my counterparts from the federated entities inform us at the Interministerial Conference. We met one this Monday morning at 8:00 a.m. Another will meet tomorrow at the same time. The tests are under way, but we have a better view of the rest homes that are experiencing problems and those that are getting out of it. No government agreement has yet been reached on premiums. Mr. Kir, I think Mr. De Backer answered you. Mrs Reuter, with regard to normal care that is inevitable and indispensable, I have sent several messages, notably on Facebook. This week, the Public Health FPS also released small films on Twitter. We do everything we can. Hospitals also posted messages. In any case, it is dangerous to avoid certain treatments and consultations that are necessary when you feel bad. Consultation with a treating physician or specialist should not be delayed. It is not for this reason that the disease will disappear. It is noted that people have waited too long before going to a cardiology service. This has made their situation even more difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u48	We've got 20 minutes left. As I had announced, it is granted a strict minute per replica.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u49	Mr and Madam Minister, I still find it special that the antigen test has been validated and that results of 70% were given at that time, as was said in the plenary session, and that the antibody test has been seized. You admit that the results are not really what you expected. That's also what I've heard from the field, so I'd keep an eye on that. The test criteria are actually a bit the same. You have said a few times that they have been adapted. Now we hear that they are adapting. Mr and Madam Minister, we are now at a stage where it is really very important that we start testing: if we have a positive test and there is sufficient PCR capacity, I would suggest that we follow the patients and then test them for immunity. This is so important for the exit strategy. I invite you to include the first line.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u50	That was almost a minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u51	Mr and Madam Minister, I would like to return to the answer you gave to the question I asked about the post-mortem investigation last time. In an article in De Standaard a while ago, you yourself stated that it is very important that the correct cause of death, including in other situations, is detected and that the RIZIV can indeed repay an autopsy. In this case, it is not about an autopsy, but perhaps a sleeve could be attached to it, because it is now important that we learn as much as possible, especially about outbreaks in healthcare institutions. Unfortunately, I have not received an answer to the question I raised today. It deals with the number of different tests carried out because no distinction is made on the website of Sciensano between the number of PCR tests and antigen tests and the CT scans taken in this context. Minister, you say that there is no clear picture of the number of antigen tests used...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u52	Mrs. Gijbels, you must decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u53	Yeah, but I'd like to come back to the antigen test. I find it unusual that there are no data on this. After all, this is a test that is refunded by the RIZIV and it must be very easy to find out how often it is used. The Community has a right to transparency in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u54	Mr President, Minister, Minister, I am very sorry, but I have not received any answers to my questions for the third week in a row. I agreed to refer to my written questions provided that they were answered, but none of them were answered. With regard to the hospital care staff and the concrete means available to relieve the pressure on our hospitals, the key used there, the attention you would pay to the care staff who cannot be quarantined, but that every day on the premises jumps into the breach for our health... all these questions have again not been answered. To the question when the care staff can expect the announced bonus on his account, no answer. To the question of home care, no answer either. They too may not be safe at home in quarantine, but have to go on the job every day to provide care. You foresaw something after a long time of pressing, but what that might be concrete was again not communicated. Also on our charge that this would only be forfeit for patients with COVID-19, no answer. Whatever you think of all the cost of home care...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u55	Mrs. Van Camp, you have to decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u56	You said in one sentence that there is protective material. I told you last week that your own COVID line confirmed that there is no such thing. There's no compensation and there's no material. This is really unacceptable. Our own care staff can't work safely. I decide. Three weeks, three simple questions that are crucial and you don't answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u57	Mrs. Van Camp, you really need to decide. You have been speaking for 30 seconds too long, which is not fair to colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u58	I have specifically referred in my replies to my written questions. Other colleagues have not done so. They have taken all our time and have not been collegial, so I'm taking all the time I need to complain that I've been asking the same questions here for three weeks and not getting an answer. I want to deal with this, that's my right as a Member of Parliament. My final point was the question of topicality and the case of Sweden, where the results of a study in Stockholm show that one third of people have already built up group immunity. You did not answer that question. This is really outrageous.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u59	Minister, Minister, I did not get an answer on the possibility of allowing a clinical examination prior to the issuance of a first telemedicine contraceptive. Ministers also did not respond to the risk of ruptures in the stocks of contraceptives, drugs and risk reduction equipment. The players in the sector are clearly in need of answers. Every day, they're in the field and they're worried. Their audience has decreased by 80 per cent. They are afraid of a risk of shortage which could either worsen the difficulty of access to certain medicines due to the increase in prices, or simply make a disruption in the supply, with the sanitary bomb that this may represent for the post-COVID. However, I have not received any answer and I am really embarrassed about this sector, which is asking us for answers. He wrote you a letter yesterday and we still have nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u60	I'm sorry, Mrs. Schlitz, you've run out of time. I know it's a difficult exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u61	I'll finish it, Mr. President. The answer on liberal midwives is not satisfactory either. It does not correspond at all to what comes back from the ground. On the other hand, I referred to my three main questions in writing, but the answers are not there at all. I think that our way of working is not going to work at all. This is inconclusive with respect to the specific and short questions that are sent in writing. I don't know how we'll do it next time, but now it's not okay!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u62	Mr President, I can only agree with what my colleague, Sarah Schlitz, has just said. We rest, week after week, very specific questions and we still do not have an answer. As a result, the level of anger is really beginning to be at its peak. I got a half-answer on psychiatric hospitals. I'm told they're getting equipment. I don't think they get any. It's really a dialogue of the deaf. If there is a report of the distribution of the masks that you establish bi-weekly, I am actually interested and I would like to receive it so that we can verify. Mrs De Block, you are also saying that all new psychiatric patients will be tested, but what about all those who are already in the hospital? Wouldn't it be necessary to test them? I don't understand the RMG strategy very well. Finally, in relation to the testing ability, Mr. De Backer, you consistently repeat that the selection criteria will evolve and that is what is blocking. No, it's not that that's blocking. The selection criteria are assessed on the basis of other blocking problems and these are the problems that we would like to know. Are there shortages, logistical problems, people's problems? It's these questions that we've been wanting answers for weeks. It's not complicated!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u63	There is no shortage of reagents. There is no shortage of tests. There is no shortage of staff. There is no shortage of laboratories.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u64	So, what's the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u65	The problem is at the level of the criteria, as I have indicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u66	But who gives the selection criteria?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u67	The answer is given.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u68	A deafening silence!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u69	We will continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u70	I asked a specific question about physiotherapists. You replied that the Union of Belgian Kinesitherapists had made recommendations. Minister, it would be good if you could make clear recommendations yourself. On the ground, what is expected is really clarity. About contraception, nothing new. You always tell us the same thing. However, it is not very complicated to make this proposal or to submit the question for consideration, and to allow women to report to the pharmacy and obtain access to contraception without the prescription, as long as this crisis lasts. It doesn't seem very complicated to me. Regarding the distribution of tests by Region, I still do not have figures. It's been x times since I asked you the question, and I still don't have any precise figures on this distribution. Regarding the enlargement of the criteria, you obviously refer to the Regions for the logistical aspects of screening and testing, but nevertheless, when I read the Sciensano site, we are still not expanding these criteria. Why don't the experts move on to this enlargement? Yet, Mr. De Backer, I believe you had made a very strong position, saying that you would take your responsibilities. It's almost two weeks later and nothing's still going on. If the ability to test is limited due to this screening, a mistake is made.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u71	Mrs. Tillieux, please finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u72	I really think we need to make it a priority. In this case, expand these criteria!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u73	Mr President, we will talk later about the method which, I think, does not work. We have again witnessed a parody of committees and, as far as I am concerned, I am disappointed. I had made the choice of brevity by referring directly to my written question; I had no answer except to hear Mr. From Backer say we're not short of anything. We realize that this government is not achieving worthy testing objectives. For weeks, 10,000 tests have been announced a day, and we haven't even got 7,500 tests a day yet. But we are not short of anything! Who makes up this famous consortium? This is the third time I have asked this question. I have the impression that this is a state secret and that no one wants to tell us. Who will be responsible for supplying the reagents? Again, I have no answer. What about the testing capacity at the consortium level? No answer either. I'm upset. We absolutely need to discuss the functioning of this committee for the coming weeks. We can't go on like this!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u74	Mr President, I can only agree with what my colleague has said. I had referred to the text of my questions, as was suggested earlier. But I wanted answers. What does it take to get real answers? I didn't get any answers on the masks. It is not for the municipalities to anticipate and take on any measures of general interest. All our fellow citizens expect certainties. I don't have more than they do, I'm sick of it! You have to take on the supply, quality control, distribution and burden, because it is the life of each and every one of our fellow citizens that is at stake. This therefore justifies a joint, responsible and uncompromising security measure. The Union of Cities and Municipalities called the government, told it that it was ready to help with the distribution, but it is the role of the federal government to distribute these masks and ensure responsibility for quality! I don't hear anything about it, or about caregivers, home helpers, family helpers, and unfortunately soldiers are sent to fight without a shield. We're sending saviors to help people without drugs, just with placebos. I'm really sick of it! With regard to commissions like today, I would like to make efforts to reduce my speaking time and do miracles, but I expect miracles from the government and frustration is at its peak! Mr President, I know that your work is difficult, but it is time to find a good way to work and that our ministers stop practicing the language of wood. It'll be better for everyone!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u75	Mr President, I could repeat what my colleagues have said, but I will not. I'll agree to what they said. As I said at the last meeting, we are not getting any answers to our questions. Madam Minister, in addition to your working groups or task forces on mouth masks and testing, perhaps you should also set up a task force to answer questions. Perhaps that would help our committee a little.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u76	Mr President, I apologise to the interpreters for not being able to speak at a normal pace. As far as the e-cigarettes and vapours are concerned, I've heard giggling here and there. I understand that. Are they of enormous importance? At first sight not at all, certainly not compared to other themes. The issue is aimed at ensuring as much continuity as possible in what can support public health. Some use this method to reduce tobacco consumption. We could also question the overconsumption of alcohol during confinement. All the long-term ricochet effects on public health have an interest, I will come back to it via a written question. From a more serious perspective, I wanted to ensure that the treatment of HIV patients can be assured, given that some drugs used in the VOCID-19 are overlapping. Minister, I will carefully read the answer that you will send me in writing in view of its technical nature.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u77	Madam Secretary, you were wondering what the problem was with the reimbursement of a psychologist. I outlined that problem last week. The psychologists ask for a new budget, because the current budget cannot be used. I also said last week that a number of thresholds should be evaluated. My question was whether you would do something about this, because there have already been surveys and open letters written by the association of psychologists and psychologists themselves. The thresholds must be removed before the budget can be used. There is a threshold for patients, in the sense that they should first visit a doctor and ask for a prescription. That's too high a threshold. [[Technical failure]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u78	We've lost you, Mrs. Van Hoof. We'll come back to you later. Mrs Merckx has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u79	Madam Secretary, you said that the fight against infectious diseases is a regional competence. That is, of course, in normal circumstances. We are now in the context of a pandemic. The 2014 Act states literally that the federal government is also responsible for the coordination and management of a crisis situation in relation to a pandemic. That is the case today. We are indeed experiencing a pandemic. A sensible person learns from his mistakes. What can we see today? As I told you, if we continue the tests in the rest homes at the same rate, they will not be completed until June 12th! You are telling me today that you will soon have an idea of the nursing homes where cases have been identified or not. Apparently, this issue does not seem to be very urgent when the deaths in nursing homes are worrying and the pandemic is not under control. [[This is a very serious situation.]] I also note that from nine to ten ministers of health. I feel that you spend a lot of time attending interdepartmental conferences. And it must be noted that not one of the ten ministers took his phone to know, for example, whether visits to rest homes could be allowed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u80	I invite you to conclude, Mrs Merckx.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u81	Minister, we are not immune from repetition. Rapid and effective crisis management is needed. That's what we expect from you, but that's not what we see on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u82	Mr President, I would nevertheless like to thank the ministers for the answers they have given, since they have answered questions for half an hour, and many questions have been answered. I note that some of my colleagues are particularly disappointed in the answer itself. However, it is not because as a Member of Parliament we do not get the desired answer, that no answer has been given. I am particularly pleased that a lot of initiatives have been taken. For example, for first-line care and support for the kinesis, which I raised in my question, there are solutions, which do not leave these people in the cold. A great deal of work has also been done on the supply of materials and such, which I believe are very good steps. I also understand that the population should not be concerned as the production of mouth masks is now taking place in our own country. This production can be started very quickly and, if necessary, can provide a solution for many inhabitants.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u83	Madam Minister, Minister, thank you for a number of answers; I have certainly received some concrete answers. I am beginning to be very concerned about the criteria for testing. If the criteria are not extended, then a tour of the force will have to be done. After all these weeks, I don't quite understand how this is still possible. In general, I miss an explanation of immune testing and exit strategy in the discourse on the tests. I will certainly come back to that next week. Madam Minister, I have not yet received an answer to my question about the Children in Difficulty platform. However, I am confident that I will receive that reply in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u84	Madam Secretary, silently and very modestly I was present when you gave your answers. Thank you for your answers, too. I assume that the question on antibiotic therapy will receive a written confirmation. Mr De Backer, the answer may still follow in writing, but we would like to have the terms of the agreement with the consortium, unless they are state secret. However, I suspect that this is not the case, because reimbursement modalities and future expectations are important for the other recognised clinical labs. So I hope that we can still get that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u85	Madam and Mr. Ministers, you have given some answers. I still hope that you will be able to complete them in writing with regard to the very specific questions that we have sent you. I would like to stress the importance of maximizing our testing capabilities both on the serology side, because every week it is waiting for validation as all the countries around us move forward, and on the PCR side. Indeed, when you look at the situation, it will be vital in the rest homes. We did 20,000 tests in a week. This means that it will take ten weeks to test the 210,000 people that have been scheduled to be tested. That's not possible. Until then, there's a lot of risk of death. Moreover, it will be vital for post-confinement. I would therefore like to make three proposals. 1. Expand testing guidelines which remain too restrictive. 2. Gather all actors able to perform these tests in institutions and communities. Today it is the consortium GSK, Janssen, UCB, Ulg, Biogazelle that has all these strengths. I do not understand the Sciensano directive which has been sent and which no longer allows this mass screening in the communities via the other laboratories, including, for example, the famous four platforms which have a convention with Sciensano and which are in operational capacity to do a lot of screenings. They're more closely related, so we don't have the logistics problem you mentioned. I quote in particular the four platforms set up from the University of Namur and this famous test. 3. With regard to the sampling equipment, the swabs, The Lancet has shown that they could also be carried out via a simple pipette. It would also allow us to multiply our capabilities. For the rest, Mr President, we will certainly return to this in the organization of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u86	Mr President, I share the frustration of my colleagues. This prevents us from carrying out our parliamentary oversight mission properly. It is important to get answers to our questions. As far as the rest home tests are concerned, I have heard nothing more than what was said in the press by Mr. De Backer, i.e. the difficulty of correctly transferring the samples between the nursing home and the laboratory. That is precisely why I wanted to hear from you about a possible generalisation of mobile teams that would be loaded and tests and their transport. As far as serological tests are concerned, I mean (...) that we must first check their reliability, hence the question of how to verify this reliability at a given time and by whom? I would also point out that you refer a great deal to the regions regarding the implementation of these tests, except that I would like to remind you that, of course, the regions are now competent for prevention, except in the event of an epidemic. Therefore, the federal government must be able to assume its share of responsibility. The same applies to fabric masks, and I'm done with them. Again, I did not get any answers. However, since the federal government recommends to the population the wearing of the mask, it is its responsibility that the population be able to dispose of it. I ask you for a real strategy in relation to this, not only with regard to manufacturing, which implies active collaboration with companies or even a purchasing centre role at the level of the municipalities, but also communication, both in terms of the use of these masks and in terms of their maintenance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u87	Mr President, I am also somewhat frustrated by the answers we have received. With regard to the small number of tests which have not yet reached the number of 10,000 as promised some ten days ago, I do not think that the fault between those responsible should be rejected. If there is a shortage of equipment, doctors, caregivers, we need to find solutions. We have no time to waste; we have to save lives. Then let us show common sense in our actions. Asymptomatic people with coronavirus cannot be asked to continue working. Nor can one, when someone is carrying the virus, refrain from taking an interest in others. For these people, the tests must be done first and foremost. How can we organize strictly quarantine to contain the pandemic? These are essential questions if we want to win the fight against it. There, too, we do not hear an answer. We can't always rely on working groups. Everyone has to change his shoulder rifle and take responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u88	Mr President, I have heard Mrs Schlitz's remarks twice about access to contraceptives. I found the same questions in the minutes of last week's meeting. I do not know what virus exists in this committee, but I see that there is no point in answering you, since you do not have time to read my answers. You can discuss the organisation of future meetings, but your attitude to us is not honest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic152x.u89	I obviously read last week's answer, which did not fully answer my question. This week I asked you again why you did not accept the land proposal to remove the prescription requirement only during the period of the VOCID-19. You continue to persist with an answer that does not correspond to a whole part of the women. On the other hand, on the three questions that I introduced and for which I had referred to the written question, I did not get an answer. Yes, that's problematic.
