ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-29-55-commissie-ic220x.u1	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, KB No. 33 is closely related to No. 20. I've got another meeting at C.B. No. 20 views. Madam Minister, you indicated at that time that the additional benefits in kind and fees would not be compensated within the partial budgetary objectives, but through the general means. It was said on 25 May that a budget of EUR 1 billion was foreseen. Then there was 200 million euros. What additional costs do you expect? Will this be enough or how much will be left? Could you also give a top five of the most cost-effective benefits in kind, i.e. the top five of what provides the most additional costs? Secondly, I would like to quote the sighs we heard in the media today. The general practitioners sent an open letter to politics, to you, to the government. They say above all that the fees in the triage centres are very low and unfair. They also say that doctors who work hard in triage centres earn 50 percent less today. You should know that they sometimes put aside their own practice to do the work in the triage centres. This is also provided for in Article 48 of Royal Decree No. 20. Madam Secretary, how do we proceed with this? Can this be changed? Will it be discussed with the sector and with the general practitioners to look into this? They also indicate that the start-up costs of the triage items have not yet been paid. That is stated in Article 46 of Royal Decree No. 20. They also say that the test procedures are very complex and that they are losing a lot of time. It also takes a lot of energy to explain this to the patients. We still need the general practitioners very much in the future, especially if there was to be another riot in the autumn. It is very important to take these sighs to heart. Madam Secretary, how will you respond to this? How will you consult with them and find a solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-29-55-commissie-ic220x.u2	Mr President, Madam Minister, the text we are looking at makes it possible to finance measures already adopted at the superkern on 9 May. This is the Royal Decree of 20 May which we examined on 25 May, the idea being to be able to meet the changing needs in the coming months. It is indeed a response to our request to finance the VOCID-19 expenditure from the state budget and not from the health care budget. We therefore support the request. Minister, could we have an idea of the current assessment of these costs based on the different positions? Can you already summarize the state of these financial resources?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-29-55-commissie-ic220x.u3	Mr President, Minister, I have heard the end of Mr Slegers' speech. She spoke about the comments of the general practitioners, which were made clear today in the open letter from the general practitioners. I'd like to get some clarity on that. This is nothing new: the general practitioners have been asking for specific allowances for the work they have done in the triage centres. I wonder what the situation is with this, how that compensation will be determined and when it will be paid. I have the impression that this may vary according to the family doctor's circle, but I would like to know which major agreements were made and how we can reassure the general practitioners that there will be effective compensation for the work they have done. As my colleague has already said, it is important that the general practitioners can and should continue to be motivated in the event of a new flare-up of the COVID-19 virus. I read that the medical expenditure resulting from the COOVID-19 crisis was initially estimated at EUR 157 million. That was, of course, a preliminary estimate. In the meantime, is there a better view of actual expenditure?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-29-55-commissie-ic220x.u4	Mr President, Minister, first of all, according to the sp.a Group, it is a good thing that a national allowance can be given to RIZIV to cover the additional costs. It is a good thing that this is happening before 2020, something that must certainly be done. The fact that it can happen before 2021 is good, because I don't think anyone is arguing for savings in health care anymore. We must provide for this additional expenditure through additional resources. Secondly, following on from what my fellow Members have said, it will of course be important what interpretation is given of additional expenditure which can be covered by this additional national allowance. Can you say something about that? If I am well informed, I am sure you are better informed. The RIZIV is currently preparing an estimate of the additional expenditure that has been or is still being incurred in relation to the COOVID-19 crisis, based on a collection of information from various sources. Is there any timing when the first draft on additional expenditure is due or should we wait for the new technical estimates, as it is called in the jargon, in September? However, that seems to me to be late. I understand that there are exercises in the process of getting a first, probably for the time being. Can you say something about that? Thirdly, following the open letter from many general practitioners and general practitioners this morning, can you clarify the fees of the triage centres and testing, but I also think that this is what it is about, if I have understood the letter correctly about the administrative framework and any arrangements already made with the sub-areas? After all, we must not forget that the triage centres sub-areas have a wide responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-29-55-commissie-ic220x.u5	Are there any colleagues who would like to ask a question? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-29-55-commissie-ic220x.u6	Mr President, Mrs Slegers has set the tone because she has asked more questions about CAB No. 20 then on the Royal Decree No. 33. However, since they are connected, this is not a problem. The question is whether the additional expenditure is on top of the budgetary objective. No, it was explained in detail last time that there will be a separate budget line for expenditure under COVID-19. This makes it easier to calculate the cost of the COVID-19 crisis afterwards. Mr Bertels, the RIZIV has carried out an investigation and is trying to draw up an inventory of all additional expenditure. We should have a first look at this by mid-July. This may still have to be supplemented, fine-tuned and monitored, but it is certainly intended to have a clear view of this against the September technical estimates, so that there is no misunderstanding between the ordinary technical estimates and everything COOVID-related. Mrs Tillieux, you asked what the cost estimate was. We have not yet received all the information on this subject. In any case, so far they amount to EUR 190 million. That said, I will not have to be told about this in two months' time, since the virus has not yet disappeared and it is not going to go on vacation. Mrs Slegers, Mrs Gijbels and Mr Bertels asked questions about the open letter, of which I am also surprised. Apparently, it's from this time of year to write an open letter. If four aren't directed at us every day, something's not right. What was in the open letter surprised me, the RIZIV and the employees of the FOD, because the idea of the triage centers had actually grown from a proposal by Domus Medica in a contact with our administration. That was a good proposal, by the way, because the triage centres allowed people to go to primary care and did not have to go to emergency care. Those involved meet three times a week, usually at the FOD and also several times at the RIZIV. It is true, as Mr Bertels says, that triage centres such as infrastructure, rent and electricity must be regulated by Flanders. The RIZIV shall pay for the care, in particular the fees of doctors and a coordinator for the centres, who shall assume the organisation and responsibility. I have to ask Mr De Cock, but I actually heard for the first time that these fees are too low. The doctors also receive less income in their own practice. Indeed, patients are still afraid, even if that is wrong, to go to a general practitioner's practice. The number of consultations in general practitioners has not yet reached their level. Today, the newspaper said that the general practitioners' consultations have fallen so much that for the first time in so many years antibiotic use has fallen significantly, which, according to pharmacists, is a consequence of the amount of antibiotics prescribed. All our actions in this area have not had as much impact as COOVID-19. That's because people go less to the GP. That's wrong, but that's a fact. People are afraid to go to the doctor, and that's not good. We have already taken action against this, but the scare remains in it. Now take the preparation of the second wave. In my municipality with a triage center and a general practitioners post serving eight municipalities, the triage center, unlike the centres in other municipalities, is maintained, but it has moved, because the sports hall, in which it was previously housed, is being re-sported. That is interesting for us, because we also have a watch station and so patients can go to one or the other. So the 100,000 inhabitants or a little more of the surrounding municipalities will be able to go there. Before that, the triage post was only there for my congregation of 16,000 inhabitants. In this way, we are also trying to work more cost-effectively. In this way, the capacity of the general practitioners is less affected. I thought doctors had to work four hours in a row. They could fill that in themselves in a rotation system. If there are more doctors involved, such as our guard station are more than 86 doctors, then the doctor should also less often man the triage centre and he or she can still be present in his or her own practice. So I think there are solutions. It is amazing that this association, as it passes through various administrations three times a week, where in all seriousness it is accepted, reveals a pamphlet in the form of an open letter. We shall have to take that into account. I assume that my colleague Wouter Beke, who has also done his best to fund a number of measures from Flanders, will share the same feelings. I'll ask him again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-29-55-commissie-ic220x.u7	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I must join you in your statement that the general practitioners are currently getting fewer people on the floor. 'Cause my neighbor's a GP. There's always a lot of passage here, but since the COVID epidemic, I've seen a lot less people pass by. It's true that people still have cold feet for a doctor's visit. I shall come back to my question about the start-up costs for triage posts, which were not yet paid today. Those costs were also quoted in the open letter. It's about costs that have to do with the triage posts themselves. How come those charges haven't been paid so far? Such things have created resentment on the doctors and have also encouraged them to write that letter. They also indicated that the test procedures are complex and that there is a need to sensitise the population in one way or another. People don't always know what's going on. It's not because people were tested that they can and can do anything again. Even after that, there is sometimes a need for a quarantine. The doctors need to put a lot of time and energy into that. Can we in any way support them in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-29-55-commissie-ic220x.u8	Madam Minister, you are assessing the expenditure currently committed at EUR 190 million. There'll be more. It's not over. As you say, this virus is not on vacation. We would like that to be the case and not to see him come back, but we will see him in the fall. Minister, I would like you to be able to detail the major items of expenditure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-29-55-commissie-ic220x.u9	Mrs. Tillieux, there is surveillance of patients with VOCID, intermediate structures. Triage centres also generate costs. This already explains why only part of the benefits was paid. There are duty stations, nursing, reimbursement of tests and other measures, such as cohort care for home nurses who organize different care routes for patients with VOCID or in recovery as a result of VOCID. There is also an increase in the reimbursement of psychological care and the increase of these benefits in nursing homes. It seems to me that it is also home nurses who have been in nursing homes to provide services. Finally, there is the oxygen provided to nursing homes and the reimbursement of serological tests. We have not yet reached EUR 190 million. It is an estimated cost that will depend on the evolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-29-55-commissie-ic220x.u10	Mr President, Minister, many doctors who have worked in the triage centres have apparently not yet been paid for the hours they have worked. Where exactly is the kink in the cable? After all, what they have done is very important. They have often set up centres on their own initiative, which have saved protective equipment, which has enabled them to make the best possible use of test material, thereby reducing the burden on hospitals for a large part, as you yourself indicated. It is therefore important to give certainty very quickly about the fees they can expect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-29-55-commissie-ic220x.u11	Mrs Slegers, a number of things have already been paid to the triage centres, but they are not all in the same circuit, because the powers are not all with the same person. We also need a second royal decision, which is now before the Council of State, to provide the basis for the payment of a number of matters. That's all new. We had to make everything new for those triage centers. With regard to nomenclature, I have to check, but I think that was the simplest thing. These are general practitioners who want to use a separate nomenclature number, but who are familiar with the RIZIV. As far as I know, they'll be paid out. That is not in the letter and I have not heard from the general practitioners who work in my house that there would be a problem. I will check with Mr De Cock whether there is a special procedure for this reimbursement, but I do not think so. I know, however, that a number of health insurance funds have had difficulties in adapting their software. This runs through the health insurance funds. The general practitioner gives his nomenclature number, which goes to the patient's health insurance fund and then to the RIZIV. Maybe that's where the problem is? Some sickness funds were delayed for two months because they had problems with the fact that this was new to the software. That could be where the knot is. However, I'm just going to continue here on what I know about how the cascade goes before making the payments. In any case, the third-payer scheme was used in the triage posts. I will check, but I am well aware that there has been a period in which the sickness funds have been able to forward less data to the RIZIV. Where's the knot?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-29-55-commissie-ic220x.u12	Colleagues, do you have any suggestions to untangle the knot?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-29-55-commissie-ic220x.u13	Madam Secretary, these are temporary measures. The first measure aims to regulate the posting of non-approved medicinal products in Belgium and to extend the validity of the residence permits. The Council of State's opinions state that the draft should be delivered to the European Commission on the basis of Directive 2015/1535. You said at that time that you were joining the Council of State's findings and you said that the draft would be notified to the European Commission. Has this happened in the meantime? Is the urgency of the adoption to justify the failure to comply with the prescribed waiting period also included in the draft, as it was then proposed by the Council of State? The opinions of the Council of State claim, on the basis of the European Directive 2001/83, that the draft now before us is not in all respects compatible with European law. Where the Council of State considers that the draft does seem to comply with Article 5 (1) of that Directive, it makes a very critical consideration of the compatibility of this draft with Article 5 (2) of that Directive. On page 7 of the opinion of the Council of State, it is said that they must 'place questions in the certainty with which you seem to reject the applicability of that provision'. They have compared the Dutch, French, English and German text versions and they say that the directive clearly states that the objective stated in it does not refer to the medicines themselves but to the granting of temporary authorisation for the distribution of non-approved medicines. The Council of State's decision, also in view of the apparent scarcity of the application of those two provisions of the directive and the resulting uncertainty as to whether it can be relied on in this particular case, was that it is advisable to re-examine the European Commission's options. That opinion of the Council of State seems very useful to me because similar initiatives have been taken in other Member States where this compatibility with European law is also questioned. Madam Secretary, what did you do with that advice from the Council of State? Have any steps been taken to bring this before the European Commission? If so, when? If not, why not? Thank you in advance for your enlightening answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-29-55-commissie-ic220x.u14	Mr President, as regards the extension of the validity of pharmacy authorisations, we believe that it is necessary in many cases. I have no comment on that. On the other hand, with regard to the other part of the Royal Order concerning unauthorized drugs, the global pandemic has had and continues to have a major impact on their availability. Yet they are necessary and essential. This is the complete failure of the drug market. Minister, we have asked you many times about the unavailability of drugs during the crisis. You have constantly told us that there is no shortage problem. However, the royal decree under consideration today proves the opposite. Minister, what types of drugs were unavailability during the crisis? Secondly, in terms of pharmacovigilance, what feedback has been made on the possible unauthorized medicinal products which, however, were used? Finally, what about today? Are we still in this situation? Do you or are you going to build strategic stocks for a potential rebound, which is not known whether or not it will occur? This time, we should be better prepared, in any case, for a resurgence of this virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-29-55-commissie-ic220x.u15	Mr President, Minister, I have three points. Firstly, the extension of the 'pharmacy permits' is a good thing. I don't think anyone has a problem with that. Secondly, the non-granted pharmaceutical alternatives that can be made available are a safety measure. Do you have any idea how many times the measure has been applied? It is not a question of the non-available medicines but of whether the measure for the non-authorised pharmaceutical alternative has already been applied in hospitals or in public pharmacies? Has the FAGG already had to apply this? Thirdly, I assume that a notification has indeed been made to Europe because the shortage of medicines on the world market was not only about the provision of medicines, but also about the medicine itself. Has the European Commission given an answer to this notification? According to my information, the urgency was invoked. The European Commission could have responded by then.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-29-55-commissie-ic220x.u16	Minister, it is always appropriate to make additional arrangements to treat patients with the virus as effectively as possible and thus to combat the spread of the epidemic. This order provides alternatives from the point of view of drug stocks when a drug usually prescribed and used for the treatment of the virus or as a supportive therapy for the treatment of the virus is not available. In this context, it was also necessary to provide for the conditions for the distribution of these drugs usually not authorized by the AFMPS. Following the reading of the Order, some questions remain. Minister, last April, the AFMPS ensured that drug stocks for the treatment of patients with VOCID-19 were already closely monitored at all levels. Could you then give us more details on the types of medicinal products specifically covered by this Royal Decree? Are there any plans for the delivery of these drugs in the event that the treatment of patients has started in the hospital? Has a communication been sent to the European Commission in order to warn it of the urgent need for the adoption of this royal decree of special powers? With regard to distributors (...), have you planned to include provisions on their liability? With regard to the maintenance of a register by pharmacists, has the question of a transitional regime been studied?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-29-55-commissie-ic220x.u17	Madam Minister, first of all I would like to thank the FAGG and its partners for their efforts, because I have a list of all the efforts that have been made to resolve or avoid the shortage of medicines, and I must say that we are working very hard on this. I have two technical questions about the KB that is now before me. Non-authorised medicines are delivered to both the hospital pharmacy and the official pharmacy, but Article 4 does not refer to the ordinary pharmacy, but only to the hospital pharmacy when it comes to delivering non-authorised medicines for which a doctor's prescription is required. Is that right? Maybe I don't see a certain difference between one and the other, because in all the other articles both pharmacies are treated in the same way? I do not know if it is a mistake, which is why I would like to draw attention to Article 4. Finally, my second question is the same as Mrs Tillieux's. What is the procedure for establishing a strategic stock of these unauthorized alternatives? Do we have any idea of the price charged for these medicines?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-29-55-commissie-ic220x.u18	Madam Minister, like my colleagues, I wonder whether the principle has already been applied and, if so, for which medicines, both for ordinary pharmacies and the hospital pharmacy. Like Mr Slegers, I was a little confused. Do all amenities apply both to the hospital pharmacy and to the ordinary pharmacy? Can the principle also apply to medications that could potentially provide a certain preventive added value? Should there be scientific evidence of this, will it be possible to apply to preventive medication, because this is not specified?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-29-55-commissie-ic220x.u19	Firstly, as in other countries, such a thing must be notified to the European Commission. The FAGG procedure must be followed and we work together with the BELNOTIF department of the FPS Economy. We cannot wait for the normal TRIS procedure because it takes three months. If we have to wait three months, it will hurt our patients. The European Commission has been informed of this and of the existence of the urgent legislative work that is needed. This has also happened in other Member States. The European Commission has replied that it accepts a subsequent notification. Secondly, we do not agree with the Council of State. After all, it is not a question of medication that is used specifically against COVID-19 alone. Let me give you an example. Curare and other anaesthetics are also normally used in coma patients and in surgery. They are therefore not covered by that scheme. Mrs Tillieux, the market for medicines has been very disrupted, as has the market for protective equipment. This virus was global and you know how markets are: it is not always in your country that you find what you need. The AFMPS must be credited with this: thanks to a task force, it has shown proactivity in the search for medicines. And as a result, no, we have not been in a shortage. However, it has sometimes been necessary to be inventive. The Agency has always sought to obtain sufficient drugs and to do the tests if requested. They've done a huge job. More than 6 million units were found and purchased – of which cost more than 20 million. There is a list of 25 drugs, used in abundance in this crisis because of the number of patients admitted to intensive care. For a long time, they were sedatives. These include sedatives, muscle relaxants, antibiotics, narcotics and analgesics, as well as antimalarials. Most come from other European countries and some from outside the European Union. Therefore, the FAGG purchased stocks at different doses, depending on where they were found. Now that we know what is needed for the treatment of COVID patients, the FAGG has already taken the initiative to establish a strategic stock of these medicines. Although there is always a quantity available, due to the number of patients on intensive care, consumption is now naturally increasing exponentially. They actually made a lot of purchases and they continue to buy, now that the market is starting to normalize a little for some drugs. Firms have also increased their production. Mrs Gijbels, this also applies to preventive medication, since both hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine were purchased by the FAGG. That's what medical studies have done. In this respect, the FAGG acted proactively. The medicines are indeed made for the public official, but they are hardly used there. For example, the public official will not use fentanil, a well-known substance for anaesthesia. They also used a huge amount of morphine. Since these are subject to certain rules, the pharmacist would frown the eyebrows if a patient came to collect large ampoules of them. In the public official state, such resources are only used exceptionally. Most medicines were needed for anaesthesia and for keeping patients asleep on intensive respiratory support care, especially for patients for which ECMO is used and who do not breathe themselves, for whom the oxygen is administered from outside the body. The FAGG must be given all the credit for that. It is also good that the FAGG has already created a stock for the coming months. Mr Bertels, the hospital pharmacists were, of course, in contact with the FAGG. After all, they had to report how many people were in intensive care to get the necessary doses for the next few weeks. That's where there was real surveillance. Not all hospitals had the same number of COVID patients. Some had very many, others had very few. There was a constant exchange of information. Mrs Taquin, you also asked what the responsibilities were. The Belgian State, through the AFMPS, is responsible for the quality of medicines. Next comes the prescribing doctor and the pharmacist. However, the latter are only accountable for their possible errors, but do not bear any responsibility for prescribing or issuing a medicine that is missing from the list of authorised products. The pharmacist or doctor is therefore not liable if he is using a non-compliant medicine, because the State must guarantee that the quality is good. Only if an incorrect indication or dose is prescribed or delivered will he remain responsible. So that's well-defined. Mrs Gijbels, chloroquine is one of those preventive medicines. Furthermore, there is not much conscience about preventive medicines against COVID-19, unfortunately. But what isn't can still come.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-29-55-commissie-ic220x.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I assume that we are discussing the Royal Decree No. 24 will not take back. Are there any specific questions regarding the extension?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-29-55-commissie-ic220x.u21	Mr President, of course we are extending this because the peak is over, but people have become ill or exhausted in the rest homes. These people really need to be able to take their holidays. It is a good thing that the support of the volunteers can go through there, even in the private rest homes that face the same difficulties as the other hospitals. This is being extended to allow these people to take their holidays even now, during the holiday months, with the permanent staff also having to be supported by the volunteers. That's why there's got to be enough volunteers. So we extend until the end of the summer to accommodate the holiday months and the recovery days.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-29-55-commissie-ic220x.u22	Are there any questions about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-29-55-commissie-ic220x.u23	Madam Minister, I think it is a good thing that it is being extended, but I wonder if it has been used as much on the ground as we would think or wish. I myself know a number of commercial care institutions and I know that at the outset there was absolutely no use of volunteers because they feared that contamination would be introduced in this way. In fact, you yourself gave the answer that with the leave periods ahead there is still a lot of helping hands needed in the care centres and that the risk of infection is a little less, so it is good that it is being extended. Are there any figures? I can ask that through a written question, but perhaps you yourself have an idea whether a lot of volunteers have been deployed or not. Secondly, this is of course a temporary measure, but in normal non-COVID-19 conditions commercial care institutions often use volunteers. They usually do that through a back door. Mr Lanjri has already asked you a question about this. We wonder how you see it in the medium and long term. Is it intended that after 31 August there will be a legal framework for the deployment of volunteers in commercial care institutions or not? After all, we heard that, if this were already done in non-COVID-19 periods, there were some irregularities about the use of volunteers, often because they are not insured. In this sense, we are interested in a medium- and long-term vision from September onwards. How do you see that structuralally?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-29-55-commissie-ic220x.u24	Madam Minister, we were able to welcome the two previous decisions, but with this decision we can do a little less. You mentioned it yourself: the peak is over, but there is still some need. Today we were able to read in the media that some places of rest are looking for volunteers, because of the "smooth visitor scheme" from 1 July. I'd like to give you a warning anyway. Of course, it can't be that in commercial residential care centres, staff will be put into notice in order to achieve lower occupancy, while volunteers will be recruited for a number of tasks that could also be carried out by job students, if additional manpower is needed. It is not possible to bring in volunteers on the one hand and cancel or fire staff on the other. We need to keep an eye on that. You are undoubtedly aware of Professor Pacolet's studies, which already indicate that commercial residential care centres have fewer staff than the other residential care centres. The staffing framework cannot go down there, the care there remains important. It is still a classic that the funds allocated for care are also used for this purpose and not for profit. Secondly, I do not know how far you stand with the legal framework that Mr Slegers referred to. We also need to be very thoughtful about this. After all, it is impossible for volunteers to take over tasks from structurally recruited care staff, when we are all convinced that we need more care staff in our residential care centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-29-55-commissie-ic220x.u25	Mr President, I would like to correct a misunderstanding right away, because we are not working on a legal framework. The voluntary organisations are not in favour of this, and so are we. This is an exceptional measure and volunteering can never replace permanent staff. Now permanent staff fell out because of illness or exhaustion, and that is why we have taken this temporary measure. So we are not thinking of developing a legal framework to extend this measure. Mr Bertels, Article 2 provides that organisations covered by the extension of the scope are excluded for the periods during which they can replace their workers who are temporarily unemployed with volunteers. That was certainly a good thing, because it was not possible to replace the temporary unemployed with volunteers. With regard to termination, I think that the time limit for extending is too short so that people in notice cannot be replaced by temporary volunteers in good time. There are also periods of notice to be respected in the healthcare sector, and the legal notice period must always be respected. I am not yet familiar with rest homes where there are many layoffs, as the rest homes have too few staff rather than too many. In the care and also in the rest homes there are a lot of vacancies open. Sometimes candidate staff are even taken away from each other. That's why, unless there are other reasons, I think there's not a lot of people getting their notice. Mrs Slegers, you ask how many volunteers have been deployed, which you may want to hear by submitting a question for figures. You don't have to do that, since I don't have the authority to do that. We are solely responsible for the status and protection of volunteers. It is not within my competence to get a look at the numbers of volunteers in the residential care centres. You can pass on your question to a colleague of your group at Flemish level, to submit a question with regard to Flemish Minister Beke. He is currently conducting a survey of a number of issues, and perhaps your question could be part of that. I can't give you the numbers just because I'm not aware of them. Bon, it is what it is. I think we should ask our inspection services to investigate that backdoor to deploy volunteers. That's definitely illegal. Otherwise, we shouldn't have drawn up this KB. It's forbidden. That will have to be investigated. We will deliver that to the inspection services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-29-55-commissie-ic220x.u26	Are there any questions about that? [[No.]] Then I will conclude this meeting and thank everyone for being here.
