ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u1	Colleagues, we are starting with the discussion of Royal Decree No. 6 on the postponement of the appointment of members of the Supreme Court of Justice. Are there any questions or concerns regarding this royal decision? Mr Boukili, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u2	Mr President, there has been a delay in translation. I would like to speak on the previous royal decree. I have a little question for the minister. The prolongation of these royal decrees has aroused many criticisms, when we discussed it last time, including the Supreme Council of Justice. We have also made criticisms in committee. Minister, have these criticisms been taken into account in extending these royal orders, or will they be extended in the same way?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u3	Sir, do you mention the criticisms that were put forward at our previous VOCID-19 session? At that time, did you ever criticise Royal Decree No. 6? Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u4	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u5	The written procedure in relation to the Supreme Council of Justice. In what sense? What exactly do you mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u6	I would like to know whether these orders will be extended as they were when we last discussed them, or whether they have been modified to reflect the criticisms that have been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u7	We are talking about the extension order that was published yesterday, as the last one arrested today, I believe.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u8	The extension of the royal decrees 2, 3 and 4 are on the agenda. We took the Royal Order concerning the Supreme Council. Do you have any questions about this royal decree?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u9	That was my initial incomprehension. I had not heard very well what arrest we were talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u10	We are finalizing the discussion on 6. We're going to 15. After that, we will refer to the extension of orders 2, 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u11	Do you have any questions about the 15th, Mr. Boukili?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u12	Mr President, I have two small questions. I would like clarification. The order is very good, but I wonder about the extension of payment deadlines. Are interest on late payments taken into account, as well as the penal clauses of the surcharges? Are the two maintained or are they suspended as well? Will interest on late payments be suspended or not? That was my question about this royal decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u13	Mr President, Minister, my question is not so much about the royal decision itself. This Royal Decree concerns suspensive measures for companies. Is there going to be a similar initiative with regard to individuals? I am thinking of protection against seizures during this period. Will there be suspensive measures aimed at individuals?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u14	Mr President, Minister, I have a number of questions concerning this royal decision. I would first like to make a number of general comments and then put a number of specific questions to each article. A first general remark concerns lateness. This royal decree is well overdue. You have needed 5 weeks to come to this text, whereas this royal decree will normally have a duration of 3 weeks. It will be valid from 25 April to normally 17 May. Agreed, you consulted the Order of Flemish Balies and the College of the Courts and Courts, then the Council of State, then the Interkabinets Working Group, but my first thought is whether all this should take so long. I come to a second general remark: the lack of a sense of reality. After all, several elements of this royal decree are absolutely not clear. I will come back to that later when it comes to legal remedies. However, there is also the intervention of the presidents of the company courts. A third general remark: does this royal decree not deal with unnecessary matters? There is already a procedure in place to deal with the problems that you wish to resolve temporarily, in particular the procedure of judicial reorganisation. I fear that this royal decision will be a short alternative to that already existing procedure. My fourth and final general remark: this royal decision is based mainly on a b2b approach, business-to-business. What happens to business-to-consumers, for example a consumer's claim against a company? I do not believe that this approach is sufficient. I have a number of specific questions for each article. I'll start with Article 1. When I read the report to the King, it appears that companies that can pay will be encouraged to do so and not to make use of that exception. However, in the royal decree itself, I do not see how such encouragement will be achieved. Will there be any further initiatives in this area? Can you give some clarification on that? Agreements concluded before the entry into force of this Royal Decree may not be temporarily dissolved. What happens to leasing and renting?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u15	Are these contracts also within the scope of application? Also, if the conditions are met, should a leaser not rely on the express termination clause? However, a judicial intervention is provided for, since the chairman of the company's court has the possibility to lift the suspension of the movable attachment where the undertaking does not fulfil the conditions of the Royal Decree, in other words where the continuity of the company is threatened by reasons other than COVID-19. Following the opinion of the Council of State, a counter-proceedings procedure was initiated in which the case must be brought by subpoenas. My fear is that the procedure you set out for this is unrealistic and itself problematic. I have a number of specific questions about this. The Royal Decree merely refers to the suspension of the seizure, but what about, for example, the continuation of a protective attachment already made before the entry into force of this Royal Decree? How will the company court assess all this? Based on what arguments? The report to the King provides for different parameters, but it is not clear to me how they should be interpreted and how the judge will have to apply them. For example, what does a significant reduction in turnover mean in concrete terms in the context of the application of this Royal Decree? I believe that almost all companies in this country could be covered, but there is a good chance that there are other reasons for this than COOVID-19. How can the court assess the underlying financial problems of the company? How should the judge investigate this, because the burden of proof for the creditor is particularly heavy here? It is not possible to confiscate the company's goods, but no explanation is given as to what can be considered goods. What kind of goods are we talking about? Is it possible to confiscate under third parties? Is this also considered goods? Is the procedure realistic and feasible, given the short period of time in which it applies? With regard to legal remedies, I wonder whether an appeal against the decision of the chairman of the company court is possible. The Board does not mention the possibility of any appeal against the decision of the chairman of the company court. Is that appeal out of the question or not? How do you account for this? With regard to this article, I have one final question, in particular on the cost of the procedure. Normally, the judgment or judgment has become res judicata, but the creditor can now subpoena if he considers that the debtor is in bad papers for reasons other than COVID-19. The creditor must prefinance the costs of that subpoena. That's soon 300 euros, or more. The unsuccessful party will then have to pay it final. What happens if, when assessing the case, the chairman of the company court considers that the suspension of the executing attachment is not reduced and that the continuity of the debtor is threatened by COVID-19? Who then has to pay the costs of the summons and the justice fee? The losing party must pay the flat-rate compensation for the costs and fees of the lawyers of the successful party, but the demand for the suspension of the suspension to the execution of the attachment is, in principle, a claim that is not worth money. Then there is the justice fee of EUR 1,440. What happens if the President considers that the suspension of the attachment cannot be lifted? Does the plaintiff have to pay both the summons and the justice fee? Normally, this sentence is immediately enforceable. This may result in the debtor being able to claim the justice fee from the creditor who cannot itself carry out the attachment. I would have liked to have been given more clarity and some responsibility. Article 2 temporarily suspends the obligation to make a declaration where a company is in bankruptcy and the cause of the bankruptcy is the result of the COOVID-19 epidemic. But the possibility of voluntarily laying down the books remains. I wonder how this will be controlled. What criteria will be considered to distinguish between the state of bankruptcy caused by the corona crisis and the state of bankruptcy due to other causes? Who's gonna evaluate this? After all, there is a risk of abuse. What about companies which are already de facto bankrupt, but which use the corono measures to conclude, for example, some lucrative contracts for them, and then fail to fulfil those obligations and subsequently be declared bankrupt? Evil loyalty here, I think, is a big risk. That is why my question is how this will be sanctioned afterwards. There is no provision for that. Finally, I would like to ask a few questions about Article 3. I do not think the text of that article is clear at all. The first paragraph makes sense: one may accept the payment of lapsed debts, even if there is a cessation of payment. However, the second paragraph of Article 3 is a provision for the protection of lenders: lenders cannot be held liable if their newly granted credit would not have allowed continuity. I do not understand why the granting of a credit could jeopardise the continuity of a company. I've had a lot of economics classes in my training as a commercial engineer in Leuven, but I really can't understand how lending could make a business go bankrupt. Of course, the opposite is possible. Are you saying that the normal scheme is temporarily suspended, the scheme whereby, if credit is still granted to a virtually bankrupt company, the lender can then be held liable because that credit artificially postpones the bankruptcy and it can become passive? I suspect you mean something like that, but it is not clear from the text. Can you clarify what in this text means "alone and alone"? I think you will certainly have to clarify this article.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u16	Mr President, of course we welcome all the measures envisaged to protect businesses, but in our view it would also be necessary for individuals to be able to benefit from protection measures in the same way. We are thinking specifically of a temporary restriction of seizure and execution against individuals, for example. We also find that, in this text, temporary suspension is envisaged only in favour of companies, while many individuals are also economically victims of this health crisis. In the long term, we would like to find a balance in the texts we are studying, between the protection of companies and the protection of individuals. Minister, what are the measures in preparation for individuals who would be affected by this crisis? I am not going to go into the legal details of the question, but how are the companies that are no longer paid going to pay their workers? How will they be paid? If there is no possible bankruptcy, the protection of contracts applies to all contracts in progress except employment contracts. Is this really an adequate measure, minister? Is this a good measure for the economic stability of our country? However, it is true that I see the text as a special procedure before the president of the company court who may decide to exclude certain undertakings from the scope of the text. I would also like to ask you about what is being done in neighbouring countries. We are not alone in dealing with this coronavirus crisis. Do you have any information on the actions taken by neighbouring countries to deal with these containment measures first but above all with the closure of undertakings? What about the economic consequences of these measures? Have they been analyzed? Some legal experts doubt the measures adopted. What about the protection of workers in these other countries? If one can understand the logic of allowing companies to get back into the water, is not the proposal to allow the prolongation of economic unemployment after the end of confinement and waiting for better days a good proposal both for the company and for the workers? Minister, thank you already for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u17	Mr President, Minister, in the short term the Royal Decree seems to strike a sufficient balance between the various interests of creditors and debtors. The deadline of 17 May laid down in the Royal Decree seems to be long enough to provide adequate protection for healthy companies, but not so long as unhealthy businesses are kept alive unnecessarily. It is a pity that the royal decree was only published in the Belgian Official Journal last week. At the start of the lockdown, there were rumours in the business community that the royal decision was coming, which caused a number of undesirable consequences, such as creditors who suddenly cut their debtors' throats or debtors who, despite sufficient reserves, stopped all their payments. The Royal Decree does not, logically, take account of the effects of the dismantling of the corona measures on the various sectors in relation to each other. One sector is not the other and one will return to cruising speed faster than the other. The Royal Decree does not provide comprehensive unique solutions to all those insolvency issues. That also makes sense, because that is not possible at the moment. The royal decree runs until 17 May, but is renewable. With a view to the coming period, we would like to call for a diversified approach, including a number of options, such as the easing of judicial reorganisation or the figure of a start-up after bankruptcy. Mr Minister, can you tell us if any other measures under corporate or insolvency law are being prepared for your cabinet to maximise survival during and after the exit phase for companies that are not structurally unhealthy? If so, can you give us what slopes are on the table? The date of 17 May is no longer that far away. The obligatory remark that we often make, but which we nevertheless consider important, is that this could have been done by means of a legislative proposal. In that sense, I would like to ask you what your intention is with regard to the period after 17 May.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u18	Mr President, Minister, the measure of the power of attorney decision No. 15 will protect companies in difficulty due to the corona crisis from bankruptcy and give them breathing space to bridge that period. We would therefore like to thank you for taking this decision. I have two technical questions. This is a temporary measure. Colleagues have already made an assessment of this. The Decision provides for the temporary suspension until 17 May. We wonder where the choice comes from before 17 May. The suspension may need to be extended. Is it your intention to extend that deadline without any difficulty? After all, the impact of this crisis is likely to continue for a few weeks or months. In addition, I have a technical question. Does the scheme also apply to non-profit organisations? We think so, but we would have liked to have heard it confirmed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u19	Mr President, under the present circumstances and for the coming months and years, there is no need for too much filtering. It is a matter of ensuring that we can continue to work with a little confidence so that companies can continue their activities. If one starts filtering and evaluating it, it can at most generate additional administrative costs that do not help much. It is therefore a good thing that your proposal is before us. I actually only have one question, which you know already. There's been a lot of discussion about debt collection agencies and bailiffs. Many of them are taking action. As far as the bailiffs are concerned, there are the guidelines of the National Chamber. We have had a whole discussion with you on this subject, saying that the directives are being applied globally. If it is important that there is as little loss as possible, why not protect purchasing power and the consumer? The directives, even if they are there, are never binding, so why not create a framework to protect the consumer and not just the company? Can we still do that? Mr Depraetere, for example, had proposed a temporary ban on preservation and execution. Why don't we? If the reasoning is that we are in an economic situation in which we are only beginning to realize what awaits us, and if we are trying to stop the failure by normal regulation, we are doing nothing more than doing so, then the question arises as to why we are not doing so on both sides, both on the business side and on the consumer side. I am convinced that if demand side, consumer side, were to be strengthened and taken into account in the economy as a whole, what has already been pointed out is the asymmetry between the sectors........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In short, why only companies and not consumers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as I am concerned, this decision is rather essential, in the sense that I am happy day and night that I am an 'ordinary wagemaker', if I may use that word. My bet goes on. I'm allowed to work telework. That's even recommended to me. And at worst, my employer puts me in technical unemployment, which I have been expecting for some time, in view of the proposals made by a number of colleagues. By this I mean the proposals that have been made to reduce the wagers of Members and Ministers. That's a joke. That's well-meant. You know all my jokes are always well-intentioned. We are dealing here with a part of the labour force which has been allowed some premiums by the various governments in recent months, but whose income is falling dramatically. Often it is even reduced to zero. I do not think that anyone who has never done such a job, someone who has never done a market or has never opened a small business, is always aware, even if he wants to realize, of how urgent it is for those who have to have a savings book to get through such a period. Their debtors no longer pay, nor can they pay to creditors. This is a problem that the government has already announced at the beginning of the crisis, because these measures were adopted later and transposed into implementing acts........................................................................................................................................................................................... We are doing the same with this decision. I hear some of you think this is late. I don't know what delivery periods most of you are counting on. I'm counting on very short delivery times. This Parliament is well aware of this. I have repeatedly been accused of taking too little time to mature a child. But the power of attorney law was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 30 March, and this royal decree was published on 24 April last Friday. I hear there's five weeks in between. Okay, I can't count that well, five weeks, that's for those who really have to give birth. Allow me to explain how such a power of attorney-KB is created. Imagine that I ordered an idea on 1 May, which could happen to a Christian Democrat, since that is an inspiring day. My idea of 1 May of course I want to have Rerum Novrum in the Belgian Official Journal, but then I must be lucky. After all, at the earliest on Saturday 9 May, my idea will be discussed in the convent of the nuclear cabinet with the ten party chairmen. Between 1 and 9 May the Royal Decree must therefore be fully discussed. This is first and foremost happening within the government, which is not always easy, although the government counts only three parties. Anyone who's ever been in a government as a minister or head of the cabinet realizes what I'm saying. At best, therefore, my royal decision will be adopted on 9 May in the meeting of the nuclear cabinet with the ten party chairmen. If I gave birth to that idea on 1 May, then I must have already written out the text on that weekend. On Monday 11 May, the text can be submitted to the Council of State, which will deliver its opinion by 18 May, a week later, which is a short consultation period. If everything is not bad within the government and the meeting of the nuclear cabinet with the party chairmen does not ask for the text to be discussed again the following Saturday, my royal decree will be published in the Belgian Official Journal of Friday 22 May. Occasionally we rape the Belgian Official Journal by asking for the publication of a second or even a third edition. Mrs Pas, with regard to the royal decree now before us, we have lost one week. After all, there was no unanimous enthusiasm for this royal decision. I have just explained why I think the enthusiasm should have been unanimous. I am a faithful believer in the free business market. But it is obvious that these people, for the time being, are in difficulty, in general, and that we must help them all azimuts. This royal decree does not help those who were already in difficulty. It is only those who have had difficulties due to the crisis of the coronavirus, who were not yet in default of payment on 18 March, who can enter into the account to benefit from the suspension that we are talking about. It is true that the baby came a week later that it could not have been delivered, but it must still be understood that every little difficulty in this mechanism creates problems. I know how much Parliament likes to be respected. To make the experiment a little bit, fifteen days ago, we put in our firm two teams in competition. One team worked with a royal decree of special powers, and another team worked with a bill. The bill was passed on Thursday, and the special powers order was issued on Friday. But if you had ever created a small problem during the discussion of our bill two weeks ago, because you would not have liked it, we would never have obtained that vote on Thursday, since we only discussed the proposal on Wednesday. Rapidity in a parliamentary democracy, even if it works through special powers, with a Council of State that hurryes to the maximum, still takes at least four weeks between the conception of an idea and its publication in the Belgian Moniteur. Have mercy on us! We do what we can. "Richly late?" That hurt for a moment, which is why I've faced you with my delivery term. Mr Boukili, ladies and gentlemen, there is a difference with regard to judicial reorganization. Indeed, the legal suspension – that is what I will call it from now on – also makes it possible to suspend a new debt, whereas the judicial reorganization applies only to debts that predate the date of the decision of the said reorganization. That is why this measure was necessary. At all costs, we wanted these entrepreneurs, these traders, these non-profit organisations to be able to continue their business and nevertheless to benefit from the temporary suspension. In the case of interest on delay, the penal clauses remain in force and are therefore not suspended because we wish to interrupt or intervene as little as possible in the operation of contractual freedom. Mrs Tillieux, I want you to know that the employment agreements are not suspended. I know there is technical unemployment, but in this case nothing is suspended or interrupted. Many of you have asked about the individuals. This is another bill, which is a little more difficult to get through the government's cenacles than the one we had approved last week by you. That bill will therefore also provide for the suspension for individuals, in similar terms. I do not yet say how, because when you enter the public domain with an initiative, you sometimes run the risk of not getting carried away with it. It is true that we have given a great role to the chairman of the company court. You are too young, Mrs Pas, to have been lectured by me as a commercial engineer in Leuven, otherwise I would say that you have had a good fucking professional lesson. You have asked questions which the Commune of Mortels is not thinking of at all. If that still dates from the time of your lectures, then you will no longer have to study law, but go straight to the Court of Cassation through the middle jury. The Council of State has said that I have no sense of reality. You blamed me for that, too. So you're on the right track. It must be done by subpoena, but if it has to be done by subpoena and it cannot be done by simple petition, then it takes more time. I am sorry that I have admitted to the Council of State's wise pressure, but that also means that the appeal procedure you are talking about is, of course, the normal appeal procedure. You've gone into the cost so much in detail that I've lost the north. It wasn't you. It was me. So I would ask you to give me that question later. We will then give a detailed answer to it with the best possible experts in no time. Mr President, I was slightly moved by the fact that I was only allowed to come in with my parliamentary representative. Last time you told me that I would be asked written questions. I would very much like to take an oral examination, as Parliament knows, but I have not received a single question except from Mr Pivin. I'll do the rest in a minute. That is not a problem, if my staff is brought in and allowed me to answer questions that are too difficult afterwards. The retention is still valid, Mrs. Pas. The turnover is not the only criterion for determining whether an undertaking might be in difficulty. Temporary unemployment is also part of this. You also asked an interesting question about the issue of the lender. As far as I know, the lender may be liable, at first because he refuses to give credit, but that is not the problem here. The lender may also be held liable for granting credit to an undertaking in difficulty, thereby keeping that undertaking alive artificially and with therapeutic persistence. In the paragraph to which you refer, we state that that liability of the lender is not excluded, but that its assessment is not only based on whether or not the undertaking concerned has been able to achieve its continuity. In other words, there's no ax. If, despite the credit granted after the legal suspension came into force, the company goes bankrupt, the lender is not only liable for this. There must also be other measures. In general, it is true that the lender must contribute to continuity and that the lender may be liable if he or she keeps an undertaking artificially alive. In the current provision, we are not too strict on the lender. The banks are now, of course, also living in a very difficult time. Mrs Tillieux, I think you have also asked the question about the countries around us. We have drawn inspiration, and we also want to obtain the documentation we have, from the German model. We have seen many examples of the fact that in Germany, eminent economists, at the beginning of the crisis, said that we should push the pauzeknop, as we say in Dutch. Seizures, bankruptcies, must be stopped in order to give oxygen to companies that were still in good health at the beginning of the crisis. If you ask for this information, we will give it to you. As far as the European Union is concerned, you know that with regard to state aid, our banking and credit guarantee laws have been approved. You all want to know why the date of 17 May was chosen. It is not so easy for the government at the moment to take the right measures with regard to duration, because we do not know how the situation will evolve. Why do we choose 17 May, Mrs Slegers? That's because it's 14 days later than May 3. Justice is at the moment on the rhythm 3 May, 17 May and so on. In April it was 14 days before May 3rd. Will the decision be extended? That's a very good question. I do not dare to give you an answer to that, because we are trying to achieve a responsible relaxation and we are trying to avoid measures that would give us the impression that we are staying in the context. That's my answer today. We couldn't let that go into effect retroactively. Colleagues, if I could have done that, I would certainly have done that. You understand. Of course, that is not possible, because companies will have been declared bankrupt in the meantime. We did a screening at company courts, and that was not so bad. In the last few months, the company courts have been particularly cautious in this regard. For the sake of clarity, it remains perfectly possible for a creditor or for the court to demand the bankruptcy of a company. It remains perfectly possible for a debtor to declare bankruptcy, only it is no longer mandatory and can no longer lead to liability. So much for the answer to the questions. If it is not complete, I would like to hear it, possibly in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to give the floor to Mrs Gilson, who had been held up in another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u22	I'm sorry I'm late. I was on the Economy Committee. We are pleased that the suspension of seizures and enforcement routes is proposed and implemented in this Order. Indeed, companies are not immune from certain actions that would be taken by their creditors. I am thinking in particular of the right of set-off that the FPS Finances could play on the cash flow that would still benefit companies. What has been the government's philosophy in determining what actions are frozen and what actions are still permitted? The Council of State considered that the moratorium should be extended to ex-spouses and ex-co-residents of the debtor to the extent that they are personally co-committed to the debtor's contractual debts and to the personal security rights of the enterprises. This can cause great difficulties. Apparently, the government did not follow this lead, believing that it was not in line with the simplicity sought. I do not understand, given the logic of the Royal Decree of Special Powers, that this remark has not been acted upon, especially in view of the duration of the order, which is finally quite short. The ARPS came into force on April 24. Have any actions already been brought before the company's court to exclude a debtor company from the scope of the ARPS? Do you already have data on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u23	A large part of your questions have already been asked by your colleagues and the minister has already answered in an open and transparent manner. You will certainly be able to read these answers in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u24	Minister, 17 May is a very short day and there is likely to be an extension. You usually work very quickly, you have already proved that, but I assume we should not expect a new framework by 17 May. Could you please give us a tip of the veil about the possible slopes after all? Not all sectors will face the same difficulties in relation to the exit strategy. Is it possible to say something about that anyway?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u25	Minister, I am inclined to give birth on 1 May at the most. That's brought a lot of joy. At the start there was more than a year difference between Labor Day and Rerum Novarum, now that's only a few weeks. All madness on a stick, sometimes one needs some time to get used to the circumstances. Well, here the circumstances are that because of the unpredictability it may be the first measure we can take. I can be very wrong, I haven't had the pleasure of taking lessons from you because I was studying at another university, but I think we're just getting started, which also means that we're going to have to have a completely different way of thinking about how we're going to solve things. It will be very easy to lose a lot, both on the demand side and on the side of the companies, but it will be very difficult to save them. So I have no problem with the measure. I will put to you the question of why we no longer provide structural protection for consumers through Parliament, on paper. I would like to make that very specific, because I believe that both sides are equally important.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u26	Mr President, last week we approved the urgency of the consumer credit bill. Many of the measures that apply here are also partly applicable there. Of course, the initiatives are not entirely parallel, but they are both rightly taken. (...) : (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u27	What you're saying is partly true. What you are saying is precisely in response to the plea to protect the demand side as well. However, we are now also in a certain rhetoric. The National Chamber of Court of Auditors has issued guidelines. I'm sure a lot of bailiffs work well, but not all of them. In addition, the collection agencies also exist. In addition to the aspects of the legislative proposal for which we have adopted the urgency, there are still no answers at present. Minister, you know what this is about, because it has been discussed with you many times. As far as the companies are concerned, I have just said that we are faced with the unknown, which means that we will also have to take measures which make us uncomfortable, precisely because it is an unknown situation. We shall also have to dare to do so in what is now going on. Arguing is not a good thing. I will therefore continue to press for a broader interpretation than the proposal for which urgency has been requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u28	Mr Minister, allow me not to interfere in a discussion about delivery deadlines. My two daughters have been waiting much longer than planned, so I am badly placed to talk about timeliness in that regard. My comment on the deadline was linked to my question for a possible extension, as the preparation took more time than the 3 weeks in which the royal decree will be valid. I should like to thank you for some of your clarifications, including those concerning the liability of the lender. Now I understand what that text means. That was not clear to me from the wording of that text. The questions relating to the calculation of costs will be referred back to you as a written question. I understand that there will be a separate proposal for individuals. It is certainly not an evil wish of mine not to give my specific questions in advance, but the discussion of the royal decree was only added to the agenda. Even though after my studies as a trade engineer as a working student I started studying law, the royal decrees require some study work to be able to ask substantive questions about it, since I do not wish to confine myself solely to a few generalities. As a result, I did not have the opportunity to put forward my specific questions in advance. I also understand that the committee wants to bring forward the royal decisions to be discussed as soon as possible, and I appreciate that we can play on the ball so soon, even though this method does not always allow us to put forward preliminary questions. Nevertheless, I would like to thank you for a number of clarifications. On what is still unclear, I will put in written questions, and I will follow that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a suggestion. You can also ask questions that have a link with the relevant royal decrees in advance and then they will be dealt with. All Cabinets and certainly that of the Minister of Justice are available to do so informally. You can direct the questions directly to the cabinets or you can do it indirectly, via the committee secretariat or through me. That can be done until a few hours before the committee meeting, especially for technical questions. In this way, it is possible to reply to this at the committee meeting, especially in the case of efficient Cabinets. I do believe, however, that a great many questions have been answered in great detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u30	Mr President, I would like to make three brief comments. Mrs Gilson, regarding the bail of the husband or wife, we preferred not to change the regime, because the best is the enemy of the good. Had we had to solve all these collateral problems, we would never have been able to complete our work. Indeed, each response creates a new demand. If and only if the guarantor is himself an entrepreneur, he enjoys the same suspension. Mr Donné, I cannot say much in reply to your question, but it goes without saying that we are mainly in the liquidity remedy at the moment. The measures taken so far by the government contribute to this. We shall also have to look at the solvency remediation. I do not know whether this will lead us as far as Mr Crombez fears, but it is obvious that we are not yet at the end of our economic misery. I'll forget about the health situation. I would also very much like to address the issue of consumers, although that is not my competence. Mr Muylle told me this morning that there is an agreement on the consumer credit bill in the Committee on Economic Affairs. So we are making progress in this area too. Your question was much wider, I understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, we can conclude the discussion of this royal decree. Mr Minister, I would like to take advantage of this chair to plead for an extension of the deadline, which will be appropriate. But you wouldn't surprise me if you extended.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u32	Mr President, as agreed, I am merely talking about the extension and no longer about the content of the royal decisions that have been sufficiently dealt with for us. Minister, on the issue of extension, I would like to hear your views on the possibility of easing the measures. Certain sectors such as businesses, shops and schools are slowly but surely reopening. The date of 11 May 2020 is one of the dates set. We are now discussing an extension of the royal decrees. It has been rather vaguely stated that an extension is possible as long as the crisis continues. However, a crisis has many facets. People may have to wear mouth masks on public transport for months, which is also a form of crisis. How do you see the consideration for a possible extension? What criteria will you observe to determine how long the extension of the measures in the royal decrees is still necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u33	Mr President, Minister, I should just like to point out that Royal Decree No. 2, before the Council of State's opinion was delivered, has been the subject of several criticisms, in particular of the Supreme Council of Justice, based on observations made by several university professors, bar associations and various professional associations. In particular, article 2 concerning written procedures has been criticized for establishing a trial in the trial, with regard to the judge's prior decision whether or not to deliberate a case through the written procedure. Our criticism, expressed in particular by the heads of bodies of the various courts and tribunals of the country, was that the written procedure, already possible under article 755 of the Judicial Code, was not left to the independent discretion of the parties, knowing that the judge retained the right to question them. The generalisation, or even automaticity of the written procedure, has also seemed potentially detrimental to the rights of the defence, and in particular to the weaker parties, being also incompatible with certain types of litigation. As far as Royal Decree No. 3 is concerned, we support it mainly in order to reduce the congestion of our prisons. That's all I had to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u34	Mr President, Minister, apart from the many questions that can be asked about the exceptional way of working, I would have suggested that it would be good to point out someone to study digitisation, automation and electronic procedures and to see whether there are any facets showing that certain elements of the functioning of justice can be improved, simplified or accelerated. At a time like this and out of necessity, we have to admit that things that have long been said to be impossible are now working very well. Minister, you may recall that I promised to repeat this point every time the extension of measures was discussed. Does anyone keep track of digitisation and other electronic procedures in order to present them to Parliament in better times? I really mean that. I think we will now see things that have been said for a long time that they could not or should not be and that they are helping now, both in terms of time limits and in terms of rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u35	Mr President, Minister, this Order No. 2 aims to allow the extension of limitation periods and other time limits for bringing an application to court, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to allow an extension of the generalised written procedure, until 17 June. But be careful, there's a trap. The latter lies in the fact that the said order does not affect the procedural time limits or the time limits for lodging an appeal. As a reminder, the time limits which expire during the period from 9 April, the date of publication of the order, until 3 May inclusive, shall be extended automatically by one month, after the end of the period. However, this period is not extended. So nothing changes. For any period of time for communication, conclusions and for any period of time for appeal (appeal, opposition, third opposition) which expires between 9 April and 3 May, the last effective day for lodging an appeal therefore remains 3 June 2020. This is certainly our reading. But I would like you, minister, to confirm that so that lawyers are not surprised by this exception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u36	Mr President, may I briefly interrupt you and put a supplementary question to Mr Soors' question on the possible extension of time limits? Let us assume for a moment that the power of attorney law will be exhausted, subject to extension after three months to six months, and Parliament will extend all power of attorney decisions. If the power of attorney extinguishes by the expiry of the term or by the non-expansion, and the decisions would have been ratified, we do have some time to do so, can one then, after the extinction of the powers of attorney at KB?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u37	The questions you ask are diverse and difficult. What is delicate in the world of the Minister of Justice is to pretend that he has consulted the sector. I'm not doing that. I didn't consult the area. That doesn't mean I haven't seen many people, but I'm not hiding behind anyone. It's my responsibility. Mrs Soors asked me how I came up with these actions. Of course I didn't go ice cream in one night. We are seeking a balance between what the judicial world could want in all its diversity, with lawyers, bailiffs, magistrates, the penalty and the civil world, and what politics might want. The Ministerial Decision contains an annex containing key sectors, including the judicial world. The measures therefore apply in full, which means that telework is used as far as possible and that, provided that the necessary precautions are taken, the rule which has been in force for a month and a half may be applied at less than one and a half metres. When considering the extension of those measures, that was an important point. After all, it is not so difficult to understand that the judicial world is an essential sector. The word "essential" is used in that ministerial decision with its annexes in many meanings and also in many different cases. It is difficult to imagine that the judicial world would not be essential. In general terms, I shall stick to these broad lines. After listening as closely as possible, which of course was not a global consultation, we have tried the following. Time limits for appeals, conclusions or prescriptions: all this can be decided as quickly as possible. There, the sector, in general, was rather requesting itself. In any case, we do not needlessly have the Royal Decree No. 2 or KB No. 3 extended. The data are slightly different here and there, but the intention was to go there as soon as possible. For the rest, we have tried to indicate by the dates that the judicial world as a whole, as far as possible, with all the sanitary precautions there are, is once again restoring its normal functioning as it had to be as normal as before as an essential sector, as from 17 May. You realize that the b2b starts today on 4 May and that a number of sectors in the broad b2b have been working on it for quite some time. To the extent necessary, these royal decrees try to say that on 17 May we will normalize the judicial world as far as possible, with all the sanitary precautions available. It is clear that the generic guide, drawn up for companies and after the G10 agreement, will serve as a source of inspiration here too. It contains the most comprehensive, practical precautions in the field of sanitary services. Justice and the Justice Department will contribute to this as far as possible. With regard to the preservation of what is useful, Mr Crombez, we must of course not put the cat too much into the milk. I'd like to play the role of cat. We have a growing list of measures that could be renewed by ordinary law after the power of attorney period, because they appear to have a lasting value. I warn you already that it will not be an easy discussion. The orality of the debates is sacrosanct in the legal and judicial world, as in Parliament. Virtual does not mean the same as oral. Let's be clear, it won't be easy. An attempt must be made to incorporate into a bill or a bill, when the time comes, what has been useful and what can be sustainable. We will then see what can pass the test of consultation of the judicial world in the broad sense and of parliamentary democracy. With regard to Mr Boukili's specific question, the criticism of the Supreme Council of Justice in relation to Royal Decree No. 2 and the written procedure was in fact formulated in relation to a preliminary draft royal decree of the special powers. A few weeks later, we still receive criticism of a preliminary draft. I do not mean to say that these criticisms were not issued in due course, but to show that we are consulting and that we are taking them into account. I answered your question in the parliamentary debate that we had two weeks ago. The written procedure which we had put much more emphasis on as a solution to our problems in the preliminary draft was made much more optional, as a measure which had to be agreed between the parties and the judge, in accordance with the rules of Article 755, in order to escape this criticism. In fact, the judiciary does what it wants with all the cases postponed, together with the lawyers. The legislator has been particularly modest in relation to all this, after having had well-coordinated consultations on the issue. As regards the criminal part, the written examination of certain appeals before the Board of Indictment will continue to take place in writing until 17 May 2020. The suspension of limitation periods in criminal matters shall also run until that date. For the processing of data relating to detection methods, the end date shall be 17 May 2020. At the penitentiary level, the measures of interruption, the exemption towards the end of the sentence and the suspension of certain modalities were also extended until 17 May 2020. As far as the penitentiary hatch is concerned, I would like to point out that an extension can certainly be considered there. After all, I want to do everything I can to prevent our prisons from being overcrowded. The health situation of our prisons has so far been relatively poor. You know that I now have a second hospital next to Sint-Jan in Bruges, the AZ Jan Portaels in Vilvoorde, and in the long run perhaps a third in Liège, so that I have enough beds, should the epidemic really break out in prisons. To those who have doubts about the medical staff of civilian hospitals who would be made available to prisoners, I say no. In Portaels, military doctors, nurses and military nurses will do the job. Penitentiary officers take supervision on their own and the federal police will monitor outside. I know that such decisions are always sensitive to the community and local government. We do everything we can to do this in a peaceful way, but it's never easy. I assure you, there are no prisoners or detainees in Vilvorde yet because we do not yet need those two wings that were empty. I had the opportunity to live there personally for 17 days 20 years ago. I can recommend it to everyone because I came out of it cured and in better condition. It was just a fracture, nothing substantial or serious. Mrs. Tillieux asked me to say the right. I'm afraid because if I do, it must be correct. If the President allows me, after having answered the question, I will ask my colleague Van Orshoven to answer it, so that there is no doubt about the correction of the answer. I had the impression that you wanted urbi and orbi to hear the right to declare what was the right. As far as the President's question is concerned, we are allowed to take structural measures in the Council of State's power of attorney which have been made necessary by the corona crisis and which last longer than the three-month period of proxies currently under discussion. This is explicitly stated in the opinion of the Council of State. So far I have not felt any need to think about it. I don't know if I'm gonna do that anymore. After all, I feel that the majority of the population and politicians believe that three months are three months in effect. I am always open to discussion, but anyone who doubts it can read the opinion of the Council of State under the law of 27 March 2020. You will see that it does not state that the powers of attorney must, by definition, end themselves three months after the law was published on 30 March 2020. Structural measures must, however, be necessary in order to ensure that the corona crisis results, its consequences, its long-term effects, its secondary effects or its consequences. The government has no religion about that at the moment. The government has no religion in relation to this at the moment, so don't make me say what I haven't said! I refer only to the opinion of the Council of State that this is not necessarily the end of the period of special powers. It would then be June 30 or September 30, but I can be wrong, or June 18 or September 18, because it is retroactive, which would necessarily be the end of the operation of these rules. That won't necessarily be the end. I repeat and stress that I have no intention of concealing definitive measures in the special power orders. A Minister of Justice could not afford this because the sector would be very sensitive to the sustainability of interim measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u38	You have the floor, Professor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u39	Mr President, I answer Mrs Tillieux's question. Subject to clarification, I understand that you see a contradiction in limiting the extension of Royal Decree No. 2. It's pretty technical. As you've noticed, the extension is limited... I'm not talking about section 2. It's deliberate without pleading. But Article 1 was the extension of all kinds of deadlines. First, limitation periods and other time limits for bringing an application to court. These are the deadlines that expire before a trial. Secondly, it was § 2 of the time limits during a trial: the procedural time limits and also the time limits for exercising remedies. These are not remedies like the Council of State, because that would be the introduction to the Council of State. The remedies are appeal, opposition, appeal to the Court of Cassation, etc. I believe that if we put this question of law to the Court of Cassation, it would answer you that the question is in fact missing and, therefore, in law. However, the Royal Decree of 28 April extending certain measures taken by the Royal Decree must be read. He makes a distinction. What is prolonged is the period described in Article 1, § 1 of Royal Decree No. 2. It is extended for 15 days, as the Minister has just explained, but only with regard to the application of paragraph 1. A contrario, not for the application of paragraph 2. Paragraph 2 of Article 1 of Royal Decree No. 2 loses its object from 4 May. It's not prolonged. No extension of the procedural period and no extension of the appeal period (appeal, opposition, etc.).). As § 2 falls, § 1 remains alone. There is no contradiction. That is why we put "exclusively as regards the application of § 1". It's the whole application. A reference in § 2 should not be combined with Article 1, because § 2 will no longer exist from 4 May. I believe that this is a misunderstanding and that the concern is also lacking in law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u40	Are there any comments yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u41	Minister, I would certainly never put a minister in the milk.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u42	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u43	I can consider that, but I keep coming back to this because I am very aware that it will always be difficult, whatever it will be. The fair list that you are making is quite daring to bring out: that will already be an important step. That's why I always come back to it. We're changing our metric system in a short time. We have always lived, like our ancestors, with a distance of one metre. Now one and a half meters has become the standard. Except under extreme circumstances, I'm kind of in favour of three months staying for three months. We shouldn't throw all our standards at a pile.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answers. I may not have understood everything, but some criticisms have been taken into consideration, others not, including the accessibility of justice for the weakest and the lack of staff for the written procedure. This requires staff. I may have missed something, but I don't see how we moved forward on the last time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u45	Thank you for your explanation, Minister. I would just like to make it clear that I have never spoken of a contradiction. I just pointed out that there was not the same regime for the first or the second, and that it had to be clearly expressed, which you did. I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic166x.u46	Thanks to the written procedures, Mr Boukili, the magistrates and clerks concerned, who are actually stuck at a meeting all morning, are given time to do any other business, whatever they may do. In my youth years, the minister and his cabinet assistant were young assistants. Minister, some are too young to have had lessons from you, I am too old to have had lessons from you. There was a great deal of talk at the time about the Mechelen Court, where the written procedure was almost the rule rather than the exception. Unfortunately, that good example has not been followed. It is my absolute conviction, however, and now I am going to comment on what Mr Crombez said about the fact that the desks will get to know the advantages of written procedures. In this sense, benefits will come from these exceptional circumstances, which will bring greater efficiency to the justice system. That was a personal announcement, for which I took advantage of this chair. Colleagues, I would like to conclude on this point. Thank you, Minister and staff.
