ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic120x.u1	Minister, Belgium is about to open a new 225 km2 area in the North Sea. Currently, wind turbines are planned for the equivalent of 1.7 GW, i.e. 7.5 MW/km2. Our first 285 km2 offshore wind farm produces 2.3 GW, or 8 MW/km2. Thus, the production capacity of our two offshore parks combined will provide 4 GW. However, since space is scarce in the North Sea, as we saw during our last visit to Zeebruges, it would not be possible to make this space more profitable, especially since Elia has planned a network connection of up to 2.2 GW for this MOG II (Modular Offshore Grid). Therefore, we have the opportunity to increase the power of this second wind farm by 0.5 GW. Minister, why does the specifications for this second area not make the most of this space available to produce optimal power? Couldn't wind turbine density be increased in this new park?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic120x.u2	Dear colleague, by the law of May 12, 2019, we have aimed at as efficient and as high a return as possible, but also at a minimum cost. Today, with the capacity already installed in the first zone, the density is 10 MW/km2, which is extremely high. However, in studies in other countries that develop wind farms, the recommended density ranges from 4.5 to 5 MW/km2. We are currently looking at how best to work to achieve maximum energy efficiency at a minimum cost. For the time being, we consider that a density of between 6 and 7.5 MW/km2 would be optimal. Indeed, an increase in the number of wind farms would lead to an increase in wake effects (i.e. turbulences that have a lower energy value for turbines) and an increase in the updated cost (the famous LCOE, improved cost of energy). It is therefore up to us to find the optimal balance in this respect. In the context of the above-mentioned law, we still need to make important decisions. These decisions depend on modalities which are determined by a royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers. We will have to wait until we have the results of all the preliminary studies to launch the call for tenders and define certain criteria. According to my estimates, we will be able to do so by 2021 or 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic120x.u3	Minister, thank you. I'm an engineer and I'm often involved in wind projects. I note that the technological evolution, between the moment you start a project and the moment you install it, means that the available machines are much more efficient than we had imagined at the outset. I really invite the government to be ambitious about the density of this new wind farm.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic120x.u4	Colleagues, it is special to ask this question about our beautiful North Sea in the Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate. I come from Koksijde and there is a strong discussion about the closure of a swimming area and the installation of a water sports zone. On Monday 17 February 2020 the city council decided that a swimming area would be closed and a water sports zone opened. That is a nice plan in itself, if it is not that there are some questions about security. In this respect, it is particularly important to note that not only can a municipality decide on this issue, but also that the federal government and the Maritime Services Agency and Coast of the Flemish Region provide advice and consent. A parliamentary question was also tabled at Flemish level. I would like to go into that a little more in depth with you, Minister. I understand that the municipality's question has not yet been formally submitted. In my view, it is important to clarify some of the principles here. First of all, a municipality can't make a decision on this alone. Your services must also give their advice and approval. It's so legal. Secondly, safety must be the most important element in the design of our beach and our sea. That allows us all to enjoy it even more. There are some questions about that. For example, when a swimming zone is closed, will people be effectively convinced not to swim in that zone if that swimming zone is situated in a residential area? It is not just about safety on the beach, but also about safety at sea. At one club more boats leave with high masts, at the other club kitesurfers keep their long lines in the air. The water sports enthusiasts themselves report that this may be dangerous if one becomes entangled with the other. Today, it is arranged by your services in such a way that conflicting water sports are separated. It would be good to get confirmation from you that that principle is maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic120x.u5	Mr Loones, I will briefly explain the procedure so that it is clear. It is indeed up to the municipality of Koksijde to draw up a proposal for a settlement zone, to approve it at the city council and to submit it to both the Flemish and the federal competent authorities. These services will check whether there is a security problem. That's the specific domain that's being looked at. The regulations stipulate that a settlement zone on a beach and in front of the low-water line, which is a competence of the Flemish and municipal authorities, should be linked to what happens beyond the low-water line, after which it becomes a federal jurisdiction. This cooperation between the services is going very smoothly. There is also a cooperation agreement, which still needs to be activated in the framework of a royal decision on pleasure boating. That decision is on its way and will soon be officially activated. The research is therefore based mainly on the safety aspect. It shall verify that the safety of persons and vessels in the insertion zone is not compromised. Where it is preferable from a safety perspective to separate conflicting types of branding sports, recommendations may be made and, again from a safety point of view, a buffer zone will always be provided between a bathing area and a surfing zone. Once past the insertion zone and the safety zones behind the swimming zone, up to two nautical miles in the sea, all surf sports may be carried out interchangeably. This is also stated in the Royal Decree of 28 June 2019. There is therefore no problem in that regard. We are now waiting for the municipality's proposal, after which we will look at what can and cannot be done on the basis of the safety parameters.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic120x.u6	Minister, I am very pleased that you have dropped the word security more often than I have. Safety must be the real essence. In order to enjoy, we need to know that we can make safe use of our North Sea. We will continue to follow closely the dossier and see if the slope you mention, which is the possible introduction of a buffer zone, can be combined with a swimming zone, which could remain. That would be a nice compromise, which would satisfy everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic120x.u7	Minister, there is talk here of the beautiful North Sea. It may be beautiful, but of course there is also a problem: there is quite a lot of plastic in the North Sea. Following a legislative proposal on the fight against single-use plastics, which we discussed here yesterday, I wondered what is happening in relation to the actions against plastics in our North Sea. I have seen that you have already done a number of things, Minister. I have found an action plan, which I welcome, but that action plan is now two years old. You and your team had put forward seven actions as a priority. I'd like to go over it with you, then ask what the current state of affairs is. First of all, has the Marine litter working group already been set up? Secondly, research would be carried out on the replacement of synthetic fishing nets with alternatives. Is that what happened? Have any results been achieved? Thirdly, has research been carried out on the possibilities of landing the filtered or fished waste in dredging or sand mining? If so, what is the outcome? Fourthly, has the subject of marine waste been added to vocational training? Fifth, is there going to be an evaluation of the Marine Environment Act? In your action plan, you wrote that you would check whether adjustments were necessary. Sixthly, I've established that a lot of blue deals have been made. How are you looking at that today? How are things going? Are there a lot of blue flags out there yet? I'd like you to give me a first mid-term evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic120x.u8	Mr Verduyckt, I begin by noting that Belgium has been working hard on European legislation on single-use plastics, because I have always been convinced that we need to tackle this at European level. We can ban certain things in our own country, but if it is agreed at European level, it will, of course, have an impact on 500 million people, which is much better. The study and the action plan were prepared in collaboration with a number of scientists to provide scientific support. You are therefore absolutely right to ask about the impact of this. I'll go over the different elements one by one. The working group with the regional and federal institutions and the province was established in 2017 and meets twice a year. There is, of course, a lot of consultation via e-mail and the members are in permanent contact with each other about ongoing actions and research. Once a year, there is also a policy-informing note, which actually updates all major marine litter studies, but also scientific studies and the like are reported and conclusions are drawn from them. As far as your second question is concerned, we have tried to follow up on several investigations in the context of my first point, but so far we have not been able to find full alternatives to fishing nets. In the meantime, we have also put the dossier back on the European agenda, both at the European Commission and at the inter-regional level through OSPAR. Belgium is, of course, always an active participant in all kinds of actions, workshops and novelties that can happen in order to get them into our country as soon as possible. A pilot project is also under way in Belgium to investigate the processing possibilities of end-of-life fishing nets. Several companies are involved to see what can happen to these fishing nets, such as making socks, working clothes, carpets, etc. A number of options are therefore being considered in this area and a number of test projects are already under way today. The dredgers and sand-digners are effectively landing the waste today. We continue to analyse these waste fractions to see if we can make further recommendations, to organise the disposal of this waste differently, for example to have microplastics removed more quickly from the dredging soil, but also to recover and become part of the circular economy. At the end of 2018 for the first time, a training course was given to fishermen via the system train the trainers we use. People are trained so that they can train other people very quickly. This training will be structurally embedded in the training programme. During this year an extension of the continuing training for professional fishermen and the Maritime School will be launched. The assessment of the Marine Environment Act was indeed one of the policy action points. In the meantime, this evaluation was awarded to external performers, in particular to the University of Ghent, in cooperation with ECO partners, through a public call for tenders. Stakeholders are also involved. A first stakeholder consultation took place in February 2020. We expect the results of this before the summer. Then the next government can work with that to update that law. There are indeed several blue deals around waste-free beaches closed with Wind & Watersport Flanders and with the beach and surf clubs. We have also organised several workshops at different organisations and have supported the Clean Beach Club. We also supported the Blue Flag label for rolling out actions at beaches and marinas. The owners of recreational craft are also sensitized to bring waste to land. The possibility of concluding blue deals with the fisheries sector this year is being examined, and a pathway has been set up to further expand the actions of Fishing for Litter as well as the aquaculture sector. That deal will be worked out when aquaculture activities start under the new marine spatial plan. So you can see that we have tried to implement as many of the action lines as possible in the action plan. I think we have succeeded quite well.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic120x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your overview. I have little to add to that. It is indeed good, good work is being done. We will, of course, continue to follow that up, but at first sight it looks fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic120x.u10	Madam President, Minister, you are only Minister of our'sea', and my question is about the silent ocean... [[Hilarity]] It's a small provocation. It's about deep-sea mining and our North Sea isn't that deep.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic120x.u11	I once proposed to call my jurisdiction "North Sea-Westerschelde."..
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic120x.u12	Deep sea mining is a dangerous, emerging industry that eliminates minerals from the deep sea bottom. Authorisations for exploration for deep-sea mining in international waters should be requested from the International Seabed Authority (ISA). A company cannot apply directly, but must be sponsored by a State. The Belgian government sponsors Global Sea Mineral Resources (GSR), a subsidiary of the well-known Dredging Group DEME for deep-sea mining activities in the Pacific Ocean. Belgium has its own deep-sea mining legislation, although we do not have a deep-sea in our territorial waters. This is necessary so that the Belgian State can sponsor a company when applying for the ISA. How did Belgian legislation on deep-sea mining come about? Is there any link between those who have drafted the legislation on deep-sea mining and those who are involved in those activities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic120x.u13	Thank you for this question. National legislation on deep-sea mining dates back to 2013. It was drafted by the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs. In fact, it has only been since the last few years that I have tried with my authority to give an impetus not only to the economic aspects of it but also to the environmental aspects. There has been intensive cooperation between the various services, with more emphasis on the environmental aspect. As a result, an evaluation of the Belgian legislation on deep-sea mining was launched by the FPS Economy in September 2019. All relevant stakeholders will be consulted. The aim is to present a note to the Minister responsible in the short term so that the necessary legislative initiatives can be launched for an update. In the current evaluation process, however, I would like to say that all relevant parties are involved from their own expertise. First of all, we are talking about the public services themselves, which are responsible for the marine environment, science policy and foreign affairs. NGOs and Global Sea Mineral Resources are also involved. They all have their own expertise. The companies also have this expertise and in this way they also provide input. In this way, we are trying to renew the legislation and ensure the crucial balance between nature conservation and economic development. We also play a very important role internationally, in transferring this knowledge at international level and in reaching international agreements in order to frame everything as well as possible. Whoever was involved in the creation of the law in 2013, I honestly cannot tell you. You will have to address that question to the Minister responsible, the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic120x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. My question was informative. I note that several stakeholders have been consulted, such as Global Sea Mineral Resources, NGOs, etc., but that they have not made any decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic120x.u15	Madam President, Minister, this question comes from the same register as my previous question. Deep sea mining is a dangerous, emerging industry that eliminates minerals from the bottom of the deep sea, as I said. Authorisations for deep-sea mining exploration in international waters should be requested from the International Seabed Authority (ISA). Licences are not yet regulated for exploitation. There are no mining operations yet. Discussions are ongoing within the ISA on this subject. The ISA organises several international meetings each year, such as a council meeting, general assembly and working groups. This week, from 17 to 21 February 2020, the council meeting of the ISA will take place in Kingston, Jamaica. Greenpeace revealed in July 2019 that the former Chief Executive Officer of DEME officially took the floor on behalf of the Belgian Government at a previous meeting of the International Seabed Authority in February 2019. If that information is correct, it is certainly unacceptable to us that a multinational should speak on behalf of the Belgian government at an international meeting. Minister, what is the Belgian position at the council meeting at the International Seabed Authority? How was that position determined? Which actors are involved in the establishment of the Belgian position? What is the impact of business on the Belgian position? Is it true that the former CEO of DEME spoke at that international meeting in February 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic120x.u16	Thank you for this question. We have always played a leading role at international level. We have always said that deep-sea mining should be possible, and that innovative and new technologies should be used to develop, inter alia, in Belgium. At the same time, deep-sea mining must be linked to the very strict environmental conditions that we want all companies, globally, to comply with. An absolutely minimum environmental disturbance is part of the framework for agreements. Belgium has always tried to feed the debate with as much information as possible at international level. We have also always advocated a balanced balance between the different interests. First of all, we are trying to avoid irreversible damage to the environment. The precautionary principle has always been the guiding principle. We are indeed taking part in the discussions in Kingston on the Regulations on Exploitation of Mineral Resources in the Area. We shall reiterate the position that the Belgian authorities have always maintained. This concerns, among other things, the drawing up of valuable regional environmental management plans which will have to be tested in the future. This is also about drawing up a strict operating regulation, whereby a sponsor State which cannot or cannot assume responsibility can be called upon to comply with all the obligations associated with it. Companies that become active are also held as liable as possible. This goes on to carry out prior, independent and qualitative environmental assessments for each application for exploitation of the seabed and to identify marine biologists or environmental scientists as members of the Legal and Technical Commission, which today consists mainly of geologists and lawyers. This body should evolve in the future and play an important role in the granting of operating licences, so that everyone again has all the knowledge at the table. This Belgian position has been there for a long time. It was confirmed by a CoorMulti meeting on 5 February 2020, organised by the FPS Foreign Affairs, in which the public administrations responsible for Economics, Marine Environment and Science Policy actively participated. It is those who define and determine Belgium's position.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic120x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. We naturally welcome a number of things you have mentioned here, such as the precautionary principle and the reduction of environmental damage. However, you did not answer my question about the impact of business on the Belgian position and the fact that someone from DEME would have spoken at that summit on behalf of the Belgian government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic120x.u18	So much for the oral questions. I would like to thank the North Sea Minister. These questions are addressed in this committee because we are also the Committee on the Environment, Mr Loones.
