ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u1	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will keep my question brief, because I am particularly looking forward to the answer the Minister will give. We all know that on 21 September the European Commission announced that it would carry out an in-depth investigation into the Belgian CRM. The Belgian State was able to formulate a reply by 22 October, which would be drawn up in consultation with the follow-up committee. On 16 October, the consultation period for the market participants also started. The Commission will provide the Minister with their answers. Madam Minister, what answer did you give to the European Commission? In the meantime, have you received answers from the market players to the European Commission? If so, have you prepared an answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u2	Mr President, Minister, I said last week that we are coming to a very classical position in this committee and I am right. I see that the Minister has communicated in the press and that De Tijd, a respectable publication, has been able to look at fifteen pages, or the full answer. To my surprise, Mr President, you will also ask for the study in your question. You obviously didn't get it either, or you might be faking it, I'll leave that in the middle. On the substance of the case, we have heard Mrs Dierick's introduction. We know what the Competition DG had problems with. I would like to summarize this: the demonstration and quantification of future problems with the adequacy of resources; the openness of the mechanism, in particular for renewable capacity and foreign capacity; and the allocation of revenue from congestion. In view of the limited scope even in the topical debate, I would like to confine myself to the concerns of DG Competition about the HiLo scenario. You have also always said that the Base Case scenario, the other scenario, raises certain difficulties in terms of security of supply. You thought you could convince the Competition DG. With regard to the capacity volume and the reference scenario, the expected report with Elia's recommendations by 15 November 2020 is of course also important. The CREG will then make a proposal by 1 February 2021. I have read with attention the presentation in De Tijd, but there is not a lot of surprising data in it. Apparently, you also spoke with your colleague responsible for Energy, Mrs Simson. It is, of course, a good thing that you are speaking to everyone and doing the necessary lobbying work to convince certain people. Since we do not have the exhaustive answer, I can only ask some cliché questions. Madam Minister, can you explain your answer to the European Commission's comments and questions? Can you give some explanation of the answers of market players that you might already have in your possession? What policy steps will you take in the next few weeks and months in the CRM dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u3	Mr President, Minister, the European Commission's decision was quite critical, very critical indeed. We also had a committee meeting on this, which did not really clarify what your answer would be, but that you consulted a lot of people. Today we would like to comment on what you have said in concrete terms. We read in De Tijd that you replied and that this answer had 15 pages, but what exactly you gave to the critical questions of the European Commission is much less clear. Since Time could receive that letter from you, can Parliament receive this letter? I suppose you can easily forward it from your laptop to the members of the committee. Can you comment on the answer to the different parts? We know that the European Commission was very critical of a number of aspects. Think of the HiLo scenario, in which, according to the European Commission, there is far too much capacity. Think of the intermediate price limit. Think of the derating formula. I would like you to reply in detail to what you have said to the European Commission. Do you also have a look at the further timing today? How exactly will this procedure proceed? What is the state of play with regard to the procedures relating to the royal decisions to be taken? We know that a lot of preliminary drafts have already been made in this area. Can you tell me when these final royal decisions will be there, including when it comes to the reference scenario and so on? Or are these royal decisions not taken for the time being because of the European Commission's in-depth investigation into whether all this is right?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u4	I would like to begin by saying to Mr Ravyts that I never pretend. My final question is indeed important, Madam Secretary. I'm asking if it's possible to deliver the letter to the committee. I will not repeat what has already been said. We know where the Commission has been critical and where clarifications have been requested. You sent over the answer. I have the following additional questions for you, Madam Secretary. What bodies have you all consulted in order to reach that answer to the Commission? What additional information have you provided to the Commission to demonstrate the necessity, appropriateness and proportionality of the mechanism? Those were very precise questions. I assume that you have taken up all these points. Has Belgium announced changes to the design of the mechanism? If that's the case, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u5	Mr President, I note that there was no Integrated Report on the exchange of views on the CRM with the Minister who took place last week. I regret that. Madam Minister, I am surprised that you said last week that you would also deliver the answer you had to give to the European Commission by 22 October 2020. In today's Latest News, I read, I quote: 'To show the necessary transparency, the Minister has sent the Belgian response to both Members of Parliament and stakeholders'. Because I thought I missed something, I contacted the secretariat, but that has not yet received anything and we have less. This is unacceptable. I assumed that you carried Parliament in your favour. Which stakeholders do you mean and have they received your reply? I'm gonna focus on the press article. You say that the CRM is necessary not only for security of supply but also for the base case. I haven't heard of a base case. I know the base load and the base case scenario. I'd like to hear from you what you mean by base case. You also say that the CRM will be needed in all scenarios. You fully support Elijah's position, which does not surprise us. In doing so, you firmly and completely reject the CREG's vision and criticism. Why don't you take that into account? Furthermore, you also say that the CRM is necessary, even with the extension of the opening of two nuclear power plants, and you still believe that there is a need for additional gas or battery storage projects. That surprises me somewhat because your party's view was that the CRM should just serve to make the core exit possible. Your position seems to me to be contradictory. Does this mean that we will pay both for the CRM and for the extension of the nuclear power stations that you obviously do not exclude? Finally, in the press article, you state that the CRM is not a subsidy cannon and not just a gas power station. You always said the CRM was technology-neutral. Now you're saying it's not just about gas plants. Are you saying there will already be gas plants? These are questions, Madam Secretary, following what I was able to read in the press today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u6	In the context of the topical debate, additional speakers may also ask to speak before or after the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u7	Mr President, I would like to make use of this. Madam Minister, a few months ago we worked together on a resolution to resolve this issue. In particular, we wanted to determine the conditions for the CRM. At the same time, our group has also expressed its concern about the functioning of the market and the threat of oversubsidisation. That concern is shared by Europe today. Madam Minister, I would have liked to have heard the arguments you used in reply to indicate that we do not have to worry about oversubsidisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u8	I thank Members for the questions. Mr Ravyts, I have an answer to your question on the reference scenario. I don't know if that question will be answered later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u9	I had that question converted into a written question, Madam Secretary. I reported that to the secretariat. Last week you replied to that in your speech, and I did not wish to raise any objections to the committee agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u10	I am pleased to note that what I am saying in committee is well listened to. As far as the questions on CRM are concerned, I have an answer to all the points raised here. With regard to the process and the bodies consulted, I have worked together with my administration, the CREG and Elijah on the preparation of the Belgian State's reply. That makes sense, because they form the Succession Committee, and as you know, they assist in the implementation of the CRM. On 21 October, the government parties held an IKW to discuss our response, which is an important response for the Belgian Government. That is why we have chosen to test it at a political level, at IKW level. Then we have it neatly within the deadline to the Competition DG on 22 October. I have not given so much new information in my reply, but I have mainly provided clarifications and expressed answers to the concerns and doubts of the European Commission. In addition, as I had already done in my conversation with Mrs Vestager, I confirmed the commitment of the Belgian State to work together with the Commission on solutions to technical issues as soon as possible. With regard to the substantive points, there was first of all a question about the need for a CRM. Here we have stressed that there are different studies and scenarios which all come to similar results. We stress that the base case scenario also identifies a gap that justifies the introduction of the CRM. In this context, we also refer to the recent study carried out within the Pentalateral Energy Forum (PLEF). Secondly, in relation to the volume determination in the CRM, with regard to the concerns surrounding the HiLo scenario, in relation to the first volume calculation for the CRM, we point out that the scenario used is no longer a HiLo scenario. The CREG has drawn up a proposal for a reference scenario, on which the AD Energy of the FPS Economy has drawn up an opinion. Neither the proposal nor the opinion is based on a HiLo scenario. The AD Energy proposes to charge a sensitivity based on the unavailability of the French nuclear park, in line with the input from the French grid operator RTE itself. We believe that we are making use of a realistic and plausible starting point. Thirdly, the European Commission also had questions about a number of technical elements. On this point, I can generally say that changes to the design, Mr President, you should not have been rushed into a question about it, but should have been carefully evaluated and thought out. In addition, it is also useful to wait for feedback from other interested parties. Having said that, I have already communicated a commitment to the European Commission to reflect together on possible solutions to technical issues as soon as possible. I also asked the Follow-up Committee to examine the issue of intermediate price limits raised, also cited by the European Commission in its opening decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u11	Then I come to the questions relating to the gederated and installed capacity. With regard to the use of gederated capacity instead of installed capacity to evaluate the contract duration, we say in our reply that this would lead to capacities that contribute less to security of supply achieving the investment thresholds for longer contracts more easily than capacities that contribute more to security of supply. We will, of course, continue to examine the Commission's concerns on this point, namely that this choice, combined with the intermediate price limit, could discourage capacity with a high depreciation of its actual costs. The Commission's doubts about the openness of the mechanism for the participation of foreign and existing capacity are a specific point, in particular the application of the intermediate price limit to these capacities. In relation to this limit, we have undertaken to analyse the problem and to consider the derogation procedure proposed by the Commission. A first meeting of the Follow-up Committee has already taken place on this subject. There's another meeting scheduled for this week. I asked the follow-up committee to find solutions on this point so that we, together with the European Commission, can find a solution to these technical issues as soon as possible. Finally, we have provided additional explanations for congestion revenues, as requested by the European Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, I gave the answer to the chairman of this committee yesterday evening, so that you can all take note of it. Maybe some people ask themselves the question: why so late? I have consulted with Mrs Vestager's cabinet what is customary in this. Mrs Vestager has confirmed to me that there is no obstacle to the transmission of that letter. Last time, I referred to the different time schedules of the different interviews that run simultaneously. That is where I come in, with the timeline for the further development of the mechanism. There is currently a public investigation for interested parties, from 16 October to 17 November. Mrs Dierick and Mr Ravyts, I have not yet received comments from interested parties from DG Competition. I was told it's actually the habit of this coming by the end of the deadline. At the end of this period, the Belgian State will be able to respond to these reactions by the end of the year. If the reactions were considered confidential, we must, of course, treat them confidentially. After the reaction of the Belgian State, for which it has another month, the analysis and consultation between the Belgian State and the Commission will continue, in order to clarify as soon as possible and to develop solutions to any problems. A formal decision by the European Commission by 31 March 2021 would be ideal, but is not strictly necessary. We expect that at that time we will be able to assess the position of the Competition DG and that a formal decision would be available well before the first auction. As you know, that first auction is scheduled for October 2021 for delivery year 2025-2026. The instruction shall be given on 31 March 2021. As far as parliamentary work on CRM is concerned, I will shortly submit a draft law to Parliament, which will make the amendments to the CRM Act. We have talked about this many times here. This will also allow the underlying law to enter into force. In response to Mr Wollants' specific question on this matter, I can say that the draft KBs as notified to the European Commission can be adapted in the light of the legislative amendment. Its treatment is not on hold, however, pending the indepth investigation of the European Commission. Finally, I will of course return to Parliament with more information on the progress of the work in preparation for the 2021 auction and on the follow-up to resolution 1220/007, which is the famous CRM resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u12	Madam Secretary, you did indeed deliver the letter to me last night and inform me that you were going to explain it to him today. You did not ask about its dissemination and about the agreements you had made with the European Commission on this matter. From your reply, I now deduce that the letter can simply be communicated to all the members of the committee, which I will now do with one click. I now give the floor to the Members for the replies, with Mrs Dierick first in the order.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u13	Madam Minister, we all knew that the European Commission would carry out an in-depth investigation. However, I was somewhat disappointed this morning when I had to read the news in the newspapers because I had hoped that we would get that information sooner. It's cleared up now, the e-mail was forwarded and it was about miscommunication. I hope that we will be able to avoid this in the future. If we had received the answer in advance, we would certainly have had a much more in-depth and spiced debate on the content. After all, we are getting the broad lines, but we cannot ask detailed questions. We must learn from that for the future. We have noted that you have not yet received any reactions from market players. By when do they have to be inside at the latest? How can we see this since confidentiality rules apply? I have also noted that you are committed to continuing to work in all transparency. You will come forward with a draft law in time to adjust its design if necessary. Do you have any idea how long we can expect this in Parliament? In any case, I look forward to receiving the e-mail we are about to receive. If we go through it thoroughly, there will undoubtedly still be many questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u14	Mr President, it is a bit funny that you received the reply yesterday, but you explained that and I am not the kind of politician who is going to drag on about it. Madam Minister, I understand that further research is under way into issues such as the intermediate price limit and the rating. Furthermore, I have heard, not surprisingly, that the scenario used is no longer a high-low scenario. You have highlighted the sensitivity to whether or not the French nuclear park is available, and you have implicitly spoiled the schedule for the coming weeks and months. We will continue to follow the file with great interest. I also understand that European research is not blocking the RBs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u15	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. A number of things will of course depend on the way in which they are formulated in that letter, but we will be reading them in a moment. Then we can continue to do so. I believe that changes in design should not be rushed. In our resolution, which Parliament approved, we have put forward a number of design changes. We have done so very well, and I expect these things to be done. It is not possible for a new survey to be announced, after which you might undermine it, because then we will be in trouble again. I have noticed that Parliament not only listens to your answers, but that you also occasionally listen to what we are saying, for example, about the depreciation, where one of my concerns was that capacity that contributes very little at times would be favoured over capacity that contributes much more. They must be treated equally, that is important. Then we have to see how the game is played and what volumes it is about. I believe that steps will have to be taken. The draft law will perhaps be able to give a hint, but I believe that there are also a number of things in the law that we do not really want to call on anymore. Your predecessor had devised an arrangement whereby she would have herself built power stations through the Federal Participation Company. I believe that this idea is so out of date that it is better to delete those passages.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u16	Madam Secretary, the timing is extremely tight. Further investigations may take months, while the instruction to the first auctions should take place early next year, in March 2021. That's a tight timing. I am convinced that I and the other committee members will often come back to the matter. Madam Secretary, I'll deliver your accompanying letters to the committee. You gave me an answer last night at 10.45 p.m. and you said that you would explain it in the topical and urgent debate tomorrow. I could no longer judge yesterday evening about the lifting of any confidentiality clause that would have been agreed with the committee. That is why I have been waiting for your answer to forward the writing, which has happened in the meantime. Forwarding that writing will again provide additional questions. I'm sure of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u17	Mrs van der Straeten, you did not answer the questions I asked you half an hour ago. Your statement that all studies point in the same direction surprises me. I hope, quite frankly, for you that the European Commission will believe that. It is, of course, all the studies carried out prior to the VUB's climate study, which were commissioned by the CREG and from which the CREG concludes that no CRM is necessary. You also did not answer my question to what extent you take that conclusion into account or not. So we will not be able to agree. We still do not need CRM. It is a subsidy cannon for the big players in the energy market. We will, of course, continue to follow the dossier closely and are looking forward to seeing how it will end with the European Commission. I hope she's not too gullible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u18	Madam Secretary, it is and remains an important dossier. I understand from the President's testimony that it even means night work. In any case, today you have once again given some pieces of puzzles about the timing, about which I, like everyone else, including the chairman of our committee, am concerned. I'm looking forward to the letter, too. I don't have any additional questions today. If they get there, I'll definitely come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u19	Madam Minister, with this question we are once again in the shadow of the CRM. At first glance, this question seems a little superfluous, but still. Last month there was a kind of perfect storm where there were warmer temperatures with barely wind and days that got a lot shorter. In France, many nuclear power plants were shut down due to delayed maintenance due to the corona problem. As a result, the prices on the wholesale market shot down and we are becoming one large auction zone to levels that normally occur only in acute situations in winter. Immediately there is the problem of the intermittentity of renewable electricity production and we are also dealing with the problem of growing interconnection. Allegro was put in place last month and the Belgian and German grids will be effectively connected next month, which will, of course, benefit energy security. Elia confirmed that spare capacity had to be started to supply the French electricity market. Through the largest player ENGIE-Electrabel a wide range of additional production has been started: the hydropower plant of Coo, some emergency generators and so on. It is important to have some explanation of the European system of a kind of pot as a reserve. A reserve capacity which is held back and which can be used in the event of shortages. I'd like a little more explanation on these procedures? Could you also explain the supposedly predicted nature of this rather exceptional situation? How many days did Elia have to use the spare capacity?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u20	Mr Ravyts, a pot of spare capacity that is being held up is, of course, something that does not exist. However, I can explain to you the general mechanism for reserve capacities and the procedure applied on Monday 14 September. Each transmission system operator shall be responsible for contracting the necessary spare capacity within its (..) zone. That is a provision of the European regulation laying down the guidelines for electricity balancing, in which you can also read more about this mechanism. When determining the size of a country's reserve capacity, account may also be taken of the capacities available in a neighbouring country with a direct interconnection. In order to make this possible, a bilateral agreement is concluded between the two transmission system operators which provides for the possibility, in exceptional circumstances, of calling in the assistance of the fellow transmission system operator, for example, when its own reserves are exhausted. However, these contracts do not guarantee availability. When the system operator needs these reserves for its own use, they become unavailable to neighbouring countries. If there is a problem in Belgium during a delivery, this delivery can also be stopped at any time. Elia has currently concluded such agreements with the network operators of France, the Netherlands and the UK. These agreements make a positive contribution to the determination of the necessary volumes for the reserve capacity with an advantageous effect for the Belgian consumer. For this reason, in the near future after (...) Allegro a similar agreement will be concluded with Germany. Allegro is the first interconnection between Germany and Belgium to go online soon. On Monday 14 September, the French transmission system operator RTE called on the agreement between France and Belgium between 8 p.m. and 9 p.m. The normal spare capacity contracted by Elijah was used and energy was supplied to France via the Belgian-French interconnection. As provided for in the contract, the costs are paid by the applicant, i.e. RTE in this case. All system operators have developed procedures to predict and avoid situations where there would be too little energy in the system. Specifically in this case, the elements mentioned in the article to which you refer have come together and led to this situation, in particular the limited availability of the production plants in France where the planned maintenance was postponed by COVID, the exceptionally hot weather for the time of the year, exceptionally little wind and on top of that a higher load than expected due to the use of air conditioning. Elia only started spare capacity for one hour on Monday under this agreement with RTE.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. I'm still learning. I don't feel too bad about admitting that. I will take a serious look at this European regulation setting out this mechanism. Thank you for explaining these bilateral agreements and the relevant procedures to the system operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u22	Madam Minister, in December I confronted Mrs Marghem, your predecessor, with nuclear fusion, the ITER project. This is progressing steadily. At the end of July 2020, the assembly of the tokamak, a reactor part of the ITER fusion plant, was officially launched in France. By 2025, the first fusion reactions could take place. Apparently, researchers from the KMS were given the green light for an ambitious research project under the Energy Transition Fund, which was set up by the Belgian Government a few years ago. These researchers will build a new type of heating system for a European nuclear fusion reactor. This is an important step towards a carbon-free energy sector. The research of the KMS focuses on the heating of hydrogen plasmas through radio waves. In December, I asked an oral question to which the Minister said that the SCK is among other things a member of the trilateral Euregion cluster, which coordinates research into nuclear fusion between Belgium, the Netherlands and North Rhine-Westphalia. The new heating method of the KMS will apparently be applied for the first time to the European stellarator W7-X, in addition to ITER, the main European experiment that is part of the European roadmap towards fusion electricity. According to my data, the federal government would currently contribute EUR 1.5 million to nuclear fusion research and development. I wonder what the current federal government is like. Can you explain to me more about the KMS project and its federal funding in the light of the Energy Transition Fund? Can you explain more about the role of the KMS and the SCK in this research and in the construction of components for the ITER project? What role do Belgian members play globally in the trilateral Euregion cluster? And to what extent should a legislative framework be developed on nuclear fusion by this government or by subsequent governments?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u23	Mr Ravyts, as you yourself said, the subject has already been the subject of a written question addressed to the previous government. That is why I have an answer, but the elements of the answer are the same. Belgium has been contributing to the research on fusion since 1969. Since 2014, the Royal Military School, the ULB and the SCK, together with Ghent University, the KULeuven and the UCL, have been carrying out research programmes on ITER for 50 years. The Plasma Physics Laboratory of the Royal Military School, founded in the 1960s, focused on the interaction of the electromagnetic waves and their plasma. That expertise was used in the search for thermonuclear fusion to heat the plasma to the very high temperatures needed to initiate the fusion reactions. The KMS specializes in the conception, construction, technology and operation of full ion cyclotron heating systems, which include the antenna, the high power radio frequency generator and the interface between the two. In the 1980s, the KMS chose to work with the Institut für Plasmaphysik of the Forschungszentrum Jülich on the Textor Tokamak, to be able to work on a machine that is much closer to the future reactor and to enjoy the synergy with the German group of Jülich. This cooperation has led to the creation of the TEC, the Trilateral Euregio Cluster, which is a collaboration between the LPP-ERM/KMS, the IPPFCET (?) and the Laboratory of Plasma Physics of the Netherlands. The KMS and the SCK are now the Belgian members of the Trilateral Euregio Cluster, which coordinates the research on nuclear fusion between Belgium, the Netherlands and the German state of North Rhine-Westphalia. In this context, since 2015, the KMS has been developing a plasma heating system for the German research infrastructure Wendelstein 7-X, which is operated in the north of Germany in Greifswald. This German prototype nuclear fusion reactor, known as a stellarator, will not produce electricity, but it will allow the scientific community to lead to additional tests for ITER, in order to achieve a better design for a future fusion power plant. The aim of the project supported by the Energy Transition Fund is to support this innovative work of the KMS, to test Belgian fusion know-how in an advanced research facility and to work with Germany on the development of fusion energy on a bilateral basis. With regard to the legislative framework, the nuclear exit law concerns only the end of electricity generation through nuclear fission. There is therefore no need to create a specific legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u24	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I had put this question to Mrs Marghem orally and she had announced a written reply to me, but I never got it. For this reason, I have put this rather technical question orally once again, although, according to the President, it may belong earlier under the written questions. Thank you, however, for your answer. I will read it with great attention and perhaps I will ask you further questions about the fusion project over the next few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u25	Mr Ravyts, as Minister for the Interior, I was still responsible for the FANC. You have no idea of the degree of technicality of the answers I sometimes had to give in committee. But this whole thing aside.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u26	Mr President, Minister, much has been said about corona in recent months. With regard to energy, one thing was clear: energy prices have fallen as a result of this crisis. This is in itself a positive effect of the health crisis. We have seen that many companies specializing in helping businesses and consumers to transfer their contracts were much more prominent in the advertising landscape. That's a statement I made myself. Here's what I can't determine. To what extent has this coverage, perhaps with the active role of these companies, had an effect on the transfer of contracts and have consumers taken advantage of the situation as it is today? That's something I don't know. Madam Secretary, do you have any idea of these effects? If that is not the case, will you in one way or another take the initiative to get a closer look at it, because that would, of course, be interesting? After all, we all know that our market is a free market, but we also know that it is an unclear market. We are working here in Parliament to improve this. It would be interesting for us to get more information on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u27	Mr President, Mr Verduyckt, all new and current energy contracts, both for electricity and for gas, with a variable energy component, automatically benefit from the overall low price level. These contracts are directly linked to the evolution of wholesale markets. Products with a fixed price for the energy component also have low prices during this period. Longer-term contracts, e.g. 3 years, concluded in the past will benefit today from comparing their price with the current offer on the market. They are likely to be able to make great savings. The consumer can do this by using the CREG Scan which compares all existing contracts with the current offer. In this way, any energy consumer can determine how the contract he currently has relates to the other contracts offered. In other words, he can see whether his contract is cheaper or more expensive than what is available on the market today. Of course, it is up to the consumer himself to choose a fixed or variable product to conclude the most advantageous contract within the chosen type. In this context, it cannot be repeated enough that families and professionals can change their energy contract at any time, without costs or cancellation fees but with a cancellation period of 1 month. People who have signed a three-year contract can change their contract without any problems and without any cost.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u28	Madam Secretary, from your answer, I conclude that we do not have the real figures. However, it would be interesting to have a look at it, so that we know how many people have switched over with a fixed contract. That would be interesting to know whether we still need to make improvements in the price comparison sites or the legal framework. I myself tabled a bill concerning the dormant energy contracts. The difference between these contracts and the fixed ones has, of course, become even greater today because of falling prices. This afternoon there are legislative proposals on the agenda and we will look at the comments of the CREG on this bill. So that is one aspect that we will certainly be able to address in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u29	Madam Minister, I have also tabled this question a while ago; it was even addressed to the previous minister, but in the meantime there is a government agreement, in which there is a lot to read. In that sense, my question is somewhat out of date. The theme remains very topical, namely how do we combine economic revival with a smart sustainable policy. How do you view this, Madam Secretary? What do you think should happen in the coming weeks and months to take steps forward?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u30	Mr Verduyckt, the question you are asking is a little different from the one you have put forward, but that gives me the opportunity to answer your question in a more concrete way. You originally asked about the percentage of already renovated government buildings and the number that is climate-neutral. For this, I would refer you to Mr Michel, who is responsible for the Directorate of Buildings, even though, of course, we have shared powers in this area. I would like to address your oral question on how we stand on the combination of economic revival and smart sustainable policies. That is, of course, the government's starting point. It will also be an important issue in our policy paper, which will soon be discussed here and on which we will have another debate. It is the common thread through the coalition agreement and will be incorporated not only by myself, but also by colleagues Khattabi, Dermine and Michel, of course under the auspices of the Prime Minister, who, as a team leader, will ensure the coherence of the whole. In this connection, I spoke with Commissioner Kadri Simson yesterday. She, like you, has put emphasis on the aspect of renovations in the context of relance. Energy renovation is, of course, a competence of the Regions, but I am convinced that the federal and regional authorities can jointly pursue a smart policy. If we place the climate at the heart of the relance, we will avoid being late for the climate too for years to come. So I'm asking for a little patience. The policy paper is coming up soon and we can have a more concrete debate in that context. At that time, the government will also have taken a number of initiatives in the area of recovery and resilience at the request of the European Commission, but also on the Green Deal may have already taken steps. At that time, we will be able to have a more fundamental, structured debate on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u31	That was an unprepared answer to a different question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u32	Mr President, I do not like to read my questions. I like to keep it a bit exciting; my questions were perfectly in line with my questions. I don't have much patience either. That is why I had already submitted the question to your predecessor, because I felt that there were few initiatives. Madam Minister, I have no doubt that you will find in us a partner on the subject. There are indeed a number of moves in the coalition agreement. I look forward to the policy paper in order to have a good debate on this. I hope it will be one of the important red threads, not only from you, but also from your colleagues. After all, it is a huge and very important task and challenge that requires teamwork.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u33	Everyone loves spicy debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u34	Madam Minister, in the context of the Constitutional Court's ruling on Objective 1 and Objective 2, the Council of Ministers has issued a public contract for the implementation of the environmental impact report. In April, your predecessor indicated that the federal government should carry out at least the part of the environmental impact report related to the federal powers. In the past, you yourself have indicated that changes in the legal framework are also needed in order to achieve a number of things. On the other hand, when you were a Member of Parliament, you indicated that Objectives 1 and 2 can be closed for you, which brings me to a number of questions. What are you going to do? What exactly did the federal government order through the government contract in June? What is the exact timeline for the EIA study, broken down for the operator and for the federal government? What elements should the federal government do and what should the operator do? What aspects of such an environmental impact report can only be carried out by the federal government? What legislative work is needed to complete this procedure? I refer, of course, to your other statements in different committees. Will you continue with this mission or do you intend not to bring an extension law to Parliament for Objectives 1 and 2? My question is quite clear: is it your intention to close Objectives 1 and 2 by 2025 or in accordance with the extension approved by one of the previous governments?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u35	Madam Minister, on 30 June 2020, I asked your predecessor to explain the launch of a public contract on the decision of the Federal Council of Ministers of 19 June to carry out the necessary environmental assessments following the judgment of the Constitutional Court. At the same time, in recent months, a number of parties, including your party, have argued that the current legal basis for the EIA creates problems. You said, in your capacity as a Member of Parliament, that you did not see how an EIA could be launched without a proper legal basis, since the adoption of the Law of 6 December 2018 did not take into account the possibility that the life extension would be covered by the EIA Directive and even explicitly intended to keep the lifetime extension outside the scope. According to your predecessor, a national and cross-border public consultation would take place next year. A legislative initiative should then be voted on in 2022. Has the public contract already been awarded? What steps has the coordinating administration, the Energy DG, taken in this dossier since 30 June? What is your view today on the problem under the law of December 6, 2018? A few months ago, a Royal Decree on the Federal Environmental Impact Assessments needed for Class I facilities with ionising radiation was issued around that law. Can you explain more about the EIA, about the responsibilities of the operator and the federal government? Do you intend to come to Parliament with an extension law? What about Target 1 and 2 for 2025?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u36	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Doel 1 and Doel 2 nuclear reactors were extended until 2025 by the Michel government. However, the Constitutional Court annulled the extension law. If no restorative law is passed by 31.12.2022, Doel 1 and Doel 2 will have to close by that date. However, in June 2019, Elia, the power system operator, had identified a capacity shortfall of 1,000 MW for the winter of 2022-2023. In addition, Electrabel could theoretically claim compensation from the Belgian State if Doel 1 and Doel 2 were to close before 2025, since the early closure would be the result of a Belgian court, in this case the decision of the Constitutional Court. Given the risk of lack of capacity and financial risk, do you intend to draft a law to allow Doel 1 and Doel 2 reactors to operate until 2025? If not, what will be the strategy to fill the estimated shortfall?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say that there is no lack of clarity. Clarity lies in the coalition agreement, which clearly states that the law on the core exit is confirmed and that the calendar set out in it is respected. You all know very well what that calendar is. This means that Objective 1 and Objective 2 will close in 2025. I'm here to implement the coalition agreement. I have therefore prepared for you a comprehensive answer as to how we will fix the law of Objective 1 and Objective 2. As you know, on 5 March 2020, the Constitutional Court annulled the Law of 28 June 2015 and maintained its legal effects until 31 December 2022. You also know that prior to legislative work and before we can vote on a law in this House, an EIA must be carried out, cross-border public consultation must be carried out and the Habitats Directive must also be respected. That is, of course, the reason for your questions and we will come back to them a number of times. In the absence of any transposition at Belgian federal level of the EIA (Environmental and Habitat Impact Assessment) directives applicable to these cases, we will directly implement the decision of the Constitutional Court and directly implement the directives in question in the formal process of adopting this law before 31 December 2022. Let me translate what is said here, for those who need more clarity. In the parliamentary preparation or in our work to come up with a repair law, we are in favour of strict application of the European directives in this area. We do not have time in this dossier either. I sometimes wonder if I have files for which I do have time, but there is no time in this dossier either. This means that, for reasons of legal certainty, we simply take the directives as the starting point and apply them in the most strict way, so that we do not waste any time having to amend other laws. With a very strict application, we are sure that this will provide a sufficient legal basis. The date of December 31, 2022 is the ultimate reference date in this file. By then, a new bill will have to be discussed and voted on in Parliament after having organized a public consultation and a proper cross-border consultation. Not all of these steps are under my direct control and it seems to me difficult to commit to a precise schedule to date. My administration and our councils are working together to provide maximum legal certainty at each stage of this project, which can be divided into three main stages: carrying out environmental impact studies on compliance with the deactivation of Doel 1 and 2 power plants, as requested by the court, by the end of 2020; carrying out a national and cross-border public consultation in 2021; and the parliamentary journey of the new bill in 2022. So, in summary: in 2021 consultation and cross-border consultation, in 2022 legislative work. The Federal Government is responsible for the security of supply component of the 2015 decision. An update of the impact re-evaluations and an appropriate assessment of the strict legal principle set out in the Framework Decision of the Act of 28 June 2015 on the postponement of the deactivation of the two plants must be carried out. The analysis of the environmental impact of postponing deactivation of nuclear power plants should be distinguished from the operator's analysis of the related work. I would also stress that under no circumstances will the State assume any responsibility for the work carried out or to be carried out by the operator or in the course of their execution. The previous Government made the choice of using service providers duly authorized to do so in order to give maximum legal certainty to this case. The claimant was required to have a licence to carry out the nuclear environmental effects assessments, as provided for in the AFCN Act. It must also have or be able to have an approval enabling it to carry out the assessments of non-nuclear environmental effects, as provided for by the Decree of the Flemish Region of 5 April 1995 laying down general provisions on environmental policy. The Council of Ministers on 19 June approved the award to SCK CEN of the corresponding public contract through a negotiated procedure without prior publication. The work of the SCK CEN and its experts is under way and is independent of my administration. Everyone's part! Everyone's role ! My administration has started working on the preparation of the national and cross-border public consultation, which will take place in 2021. To this end, it asked the Environment DG to inform all countries within a radius of 1,000 km around Doel 1 and Doel 2 of Belgium's intention to organise such a consultation. To date, the following countries have shown interest: Sweden, Germany, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Austria, Poland, Denmark and Ireland. A notification of the authorities concerned in Belgium is also planned in the coming weeks. I will not fail to return to you, once the timetable for all these consultations has been set. Mr Bombled, I explained to you that I will do everything in my power to maintain a legislative path in 2022. As far as your second question is concerned, it becomes superfluous since we will be in the affirmative.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u38	Mr President, Madam Minister, first of all, you will not blame me for not being so clear. When you respect the legal calendar and that legal calendar turns out to have no legal effect from 2022, I didn't know what you would do. This clearly explains what the intention is. Secondly, I understand that the Ecolo-Groenkabinets have meanwhile been strengthened with someone who was closely involved in the procedure before the Constitutional Court, although not on the policy side but on the other hand. However, we all know what is said about poachers and forest rangers. Thirdly, we are, of course, looking forward to the steps that will be taken in this area. It seems to me very useful that you know how to implement the procedure as strictly as possible and as quickly as possible, given that the same procedure may be useful from November 2021. From your reply, it seems clear to me that you have a whole range of powers with the federal government to do this, which means that the Prime Minister's answer in the European Parliament, namely that this must be done but by the operator himself, must be taken with a fine grain of salt. In any case, I take note of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u39	Mr President, Minister, on that last point, I naturally agree with Mr Wollants. Madam Minister, it is of course a good thing that you have implemented the passage from the coalition agreement on respect for the calendar already established almost 20 years ago. As far as the three phases are concerned, I understand that this is an update for the environmental impact study. A great deal of historical work has already been done in this area. I look forward with interest to the cross-border referendum in 2021. We also take with us your commitment to the strict application of the European directive for reasons of legal certainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u40	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers and the timetable you have outlined. What is reassuring is that your administration is already working to organize this great public consultation. That's very positive. I will conclude by saying that Belgium wants to give itself the means to get out of nuclear power in 2025 and to respect what was planned. This is very important, because no one wants an economic desert, no one wants citizens' energy bills to increase and no one wants a supply deficit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u41	Madam Minister, the government has indicated that it wants to invest in solar panels and windmills throughout the country. We found that surprising, especially given that you are not formally competent to do so. The solar panels that should be coming from Aarlen to Ostend, in my opinion, do not belong to you, unless you refer to the federal government buildings and areas. There is still a lot of space and there are still many possibilities. In fact, former Minister Jambon has already done a lot of preparatory work on this. In fact, he mapped out residual land eligible for photovoltaic projects and worked on a wind register with a view to wind energy projects, even though that was hidden by then Minister Geens and nothing else happened to it. Anyway, there is some potential for initiatives. Will this be done, or are you, as the Minister for Energy, not responsible for this matter and under the responsibility of the Minister responsible for the Buildings? Do you have ambition to roll out an investment path with investments in windmills and solar panels in areas owned by the federal government? Can you put a figure on that ambition? What power do you want to install there and at what time? How much capital will be realised by the end of the legislature? Will you be allowed to play a role in this as Minister of Energy, or is that the sole responsibility of Secretary of State Michel? That would make it clear where the limits of your jurisdiction lie and those of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u42	I welcome the fact that an answer has already been given, because my question has a different perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u43	Mr Wollants, the Vivaldi Government has joined forces to respond to the major challenges facing our country in the next year, in the coming years, until 2030: managing a health crisis, tackling an economic and social crisis and within the framework of the climate challenge. Our team is convinced that this is best done by working together. I will answer your last question first. We don't sit with the government on islets or in silos. On the contrary, we are a team, working together and beating our hands together. Of course, we have different people and different powers, all of which are a bit connected. We shall also work together on these points. So it's not like everyone's doing their thing. We carry out the coalition agreement together, and we work together to do so. Secretary of State Michel, who is responsible for the Directorate of Buildings, and I myself, responsible for Energy, will of course work together. We have an excellent instrument, the National Energy and Climate Plan, on which there are also questions and with which a number of projects are also addressed. The government's ambition in the government agreement is linked to this: we also want to work on energy efficiency and energy renovation as part of a national investment plan. You had a question about the division of powers. Each federal and regional entity has separate powers. We will roll out a policy with respect for everyone's powers. Of course, we respect the division of competence of our country and, at the same time, the power of every identity to roll out that competence. It is my absolute ambition to work well with my colleagues in the Regions. I've been in touch with all three of them. I have noticed that all three have the same questions, concerns and ambitions. Finally, I welcome all the preparatory work that is available. We have no time to waste in this area either. This is not the legislature to make plans, but the legislature to implement the plans. I do not have a super-concrete answer in itself, because unfortunately I have only been Minister for 23 days. We certainly intend to implement this in the light of the European relaunch plan, the national investment plan, the Green Deal and the National Climate and Energy Plan. If we work together with the Regions and in the federal government, as a country, we can live up to the ambition of installing solar panels and windmills from Arlen to Ostend.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u44	Madam Minister, I have no doubt that you want to work together, but the experience in this house teaches me that sometimes when it comes to competences shared between different ministers, this leads to problems. It has happened more than once that these ministers kept pointing at each other until the end of the legislature. I remember the situation when the North Sea Minister said that there was no second zone, while the Minister for Energy announced a second zone in the North Sea. That's the kind of thing I want to avoid. I also understand that you do not have a specific answer at this stage, but I would like to say that it is an essential point. This has not been the main focus of the Buildings Regie. Let's be honest. I would hate for you to say that if I asked the question at the end of the legislature, you would have wanted to know earlier. Today, 23 days in your ministry, I am instructing you to convince your colleague in charge of the Buildings Control to take initiatives in this area. There are government buildings from Aarlen to Ostend; these are a lot of roofs that you can work with. I suggest that you and the rest of the government focus on that, so that we can see movement there. There's preparatory work, use it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u45	Mr President, Madam Minister, in October the European Commission delivered its assessment of the completed National Energy-Climate Plans. As far as our country is concerned, it clearly points to a lack of ambition. Indeed, the target set in this document for 2030 is 17.53 % of the share of energy produced from renewable sources, where the European executive recommended reaching 25 %. A few months ago, I asked your predecessor about the risk that the Commission might fail to meet this objective. I was also concerned about the interim deadline of 2020, which should have seen the proportion of renewables reach 13%. The Commission confirms that this will probably not be the case. The latest figures, dating back to 2018, stagnated at 9.4%. Belgium is one of the three nations, with France and Poland, which is in default at this level. In addition, it believes that our country has an ambition that it calls "low" in terms of improving energy efficiency. I know, Madam Minister, that the government agreement provides for a strong commitment to renewable energy, just as it plans to adapt the National Plan to achieve a 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. Minister, have you been able to see the Commission's assessment? I guess that's the case. What answers do you intend to give in order to remedy this poor image and these unambitious goals? What courses of adaptation have you identified?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u46	Madam Secretary, I will be brief. After all, a number of elements to which I expected an answer have already been dealt with in part in your reply to Mr Wollants. The evaluation published by the European Commission on 14 October was a document which was not particularly happy. The problem there, and I would like to focus on this, is that we are being paid as a country, not only in terms of this objective, but also in terms of the budget. It is the federal government that is usually called to account by the European authorities, but the result that is presented is indeed a result that is presented as a country and that is not only the federal government, but also the Länder and even the other governments. The important thing is to work effectively together. Perhaps in the past this has been a problem, which is why I am asking the question at the beginning of this legislature. It's also about your authority. I have just been informed that some of this matter falls within the competence of your colleague, Mr Khattabi. The government is one and indivisible, so I have addressed the questions to you, but some of them can and must also be answered by Mr Khattabi. What is your position on this very critical evaluation, from your point of view? This is, of course, a struggle which must be fought in its own government, taking into account each of its powers, but what will you do in concrete terms with regard to your fellow ministers responsible for this matter in the regional governments? In what way can and do you want to respond to these different comments from your own powers? It's about ambition, investment and financing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u47	Mr President, Madam Minister, as already mentioned in other questions by my colleagues, our country is one of those who have the ambition to adopt a strategy to achieve the European carbon-neutral targets by 2050. However, in mid-October, the European Commission published its evaluation of Belgium's National Energy-Climate Plan (PNEC). This assessment highlights the difficulties of the non-coordination of the four plans - that of the federal and that of the federated entities - as well as a complicated analysis because the Belgian contribution does not follow the model of the European Regulation on the Governance of the Energy Union and Climate Action. Indeed, some of the key competences for a strong climate policy are part of areas of so-called mixed competence, i.e. shared between the federal state and the regions. This is particularly the case for the environment, energy and transport. The federal and regional levels have therefore drawn up separate plans and, in the end, the plan submitted by Belgium is considered a draft and resulting from the uncoordinated stacking of the various plans. Although Belgium is committed to reducing emissions from non-industrial sectors by 35% in 2030, the Commission considers our plan to be unambitious. Another point concerns renewable energy. In this area, the final version of the plan submitted by our country targets 17.5% of final consumption in 2030. This target is considered "not ambitious enough" by the European Commission, which had calculated an indicative target of 25%. Minister, what is your analysis of the European Commission's evaluation? What elements could be reviewed? With regard to renewable energy, what are the possible ways forward to reach the indicative target calculated by the Commission? What are the major obstacles to the development of renewable energy in our country? Are there any consultations with federated entities on this subject? How do you envisage the organisation of work with your colleague in charge of Climate and Green Deal, with regard to the implementation of the PNEC? What method of work will be put in place? Thank you for the answers you would like to give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u48	Mr President, I fully share the views and concerns of the questioners. Climate and energy policies must be as integrated and coherent as possible, with a joint plan. You put it that way, Mr President, and that is the real challenge over the next few years. I have taken note of this assessment by the European Commission, but I must analyse it in more detail, in consultation with my administration and with Minister Khattabi, responsible for Climate and Green Deal - as you rightly recall - before submitting a concrete and substantiated text. With regard to the renewable energy objective, it is premature to draw conclusions or develop proposals, because I need to look at the issue in more detail, with my administration and with my regional and federal colleagues. In any case, we will have to discuss it with all the parties concerned with a view to a possible revision and updating of the PNEC by 2023, as requested by the European Commission. In addition, we will have to act in accordance with the commitment of the Government Agreement to review the federal component of the NECFN. For the time being, the evaluation of the European Commission is, first and foremost, being studied within the CONCERE-CNC-PNEC Steering Committee and will then be discussed politically. As regards the federal share of the renewable energy target of 17.5%, it is important to observe the rate obtained from offshore wind energy and biofuel respectively. As indicated in the PNEC, Belgium has committed to increase wind energy production in the North Sea to 4 GW by 2030. This objective will require a tendering mechanism that is expected to be deployed by 2023. We are also looking at whether the current capacity can still be expanded through cooperation with other countries neighbouring the North Sea, via the North Sea Energy Cooperation. Yesterday I was able to discuss several points with Mrs Kadri Simson, European Commissioner for Energy. With regard to the future methodology, I have to repeat myself, since I will have to discuss it with my colleague Khattabi, in collaboration with our respective administrations and by relying more on the working method that has been established within the CONCERE-CNC. At present, the European Commission's assessment is, first and foremost, examined by this steering group, before further discussion at the political level. In addition to your questions, Mr President, I can say the following. The National Energy and Climate Plan refers on several occasions to the federal government as regards regional powers in this area. It has included a number of competences in the government agreement - which can help and support the regions in order to achieve the objectives as a country. As a federal government, it has always been my intention to be the 'companier' with the Regions to work on an integrated and coherent plan with a common vision in this way and step by step. Of course, this must be done with the full respect for the powers of each of the entities. They're moving on together. If we put our hands together, we can certainly move forward in the next few years. I myself have decided not to lock myself in my jurisdiction. On the contrary, I want to take an open and constructive attitude towards the regions. I would like to continue to consult with my three colleagues in order to know their concerns and sensitivities. It's not the time for further bidding, it's the time for cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u49	Minister, the ambition of the government agreement is important. It's happy! We can be happy about that. Now, the whole stake will be to bring this ambition into line with concrete actions. You answered, in the context of Mr Wollants' question, that you had coordinated the Regions and that ambition was shared. The challenge is precisely to be able to engage all entities, in addition to the federal state, in achieving this objective. In this regard, I fear that strong divergences or, in any case, significant variations in the ambitions of each other will be an obstacle. Indeed, I do not need to remind you that, on 14 October 2020, the Minister of Energy in Flanders bought over EUR 22 million of renewable energy in Denmark and used it to denounce unrealistic climate objectives in the past. However, we are raising those objectives. How then do you intend to commit this country, all its entities and institutions, to this ambitious goal that you claim to defend and which we want to defend with you. That will be at stake in the coming years, and we will have to work on it very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u50	Madam Minister, it is of course the competence of everyone within their range of instruments to make the choices they want to make. The different states can do that, and the federal entity can do that. I would stress once again that the package to be presented to the European bodies must be a coherent whole in terms of climate and energy. It should not be a ratatouille of stacked pages, where one takes everything, where a bow is put around and with which one has to do it. How will we be able to work better together in this country with respect for everyone's competence, pending perhaps someday a reform of the institutions that could lead to more homogeneous sets of powers? For the time being, we have to deal with the powers we have. I believe that within those powers that we have, there should be a great deal of opportunity for greater cooperation. I'd like to make that plea again today. One should not argue for a convinced one, one always says. You, I believe, agree with me on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u51	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear you share our concerns. It's already a good thing. You plan to work on an update of the NECP very early. In order to improve the contribution of renewable energies, the European Commission proposes to explore mechanisms for cooperation also between Member States, and a European funding mechanism in order to achieve the objectives and speed up the implementation of measures. This can be in the field of transport and mobility, with support for sustainable mobility, particularly in the field of rail and electric vehicles, hydrogen vehicles and charging stations. These measures may also include the renovation of public buildings. This is a dialogue that really needs to be conducted with your colleagues. But it can also be, and you mentioned it, through the use of clean energy, while gradually disinvesting fossil fuels. You are also well aware that it is important to have a consultation with the federated entities, given the gap between the objectives set by the Regions. My colleagues have also mentioned this. It is important to have an integrated vision and an integrated plan of the objectives of the federal and federated entities, rather than a juxtaposition of plans, which ultimately gives a very negative image of our country to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u52	Mr President, I would like to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u53	You can keep it to an ordinary remark.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u54	Mr President, I have just expressed my concern about the division of responsibilities between ministers Van der Straeten and Khattabi. I notice that Mr Verduyckt is also asking a question about the input relating to the European Green Deal. In short, of two things one. The question now put to Minister Van der Straeten may be asked, because I am in favour of maximum freedom for Members of Parliament and the Minister's reply may be useful for next month. However, I have just asked the same question to her colleague, Mr Khattabi, on the assumption that Mrs Khattabi, as Minister for Climate and Green Deal, is even more closely involved in European plans and in national energy and climate plans. I call for a working method to be established in this committee in which we have a little bit of an insight into the substantive competence of the two ministers, otherwise it will be a little difficult for the individual Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u55	Mr President, I would like to endorse this. I think it would not be a bad thing for our committee to ask both Minister Van der Straeten's cabinet, Minister Khattabi and Minister Van Quickenborne, where the limits of their powers lie precisely, so that we can ask specific questions. After all, when we put questions to the wrong minister, those questions must be referred. That all takes time and really doesn't make much sense. The sooner we know who is responsible for what, the more focused we can get to work with these three ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u56	In this group of questions you yourself started asking a question about this. I also believe that it is still a good principle that a government, which is one and indivisible, should itself agree internally on who is responsible for what part of it. Those appointments need to be made. Of course, it is not productive to address all the questions to the various ministers. I believe that the Minister should, where appropriate, consult with her fellow ministers, Khattabi and Van Quickenborne. However, the answer given in committee, or even in plenary, wherever it often happens, is an answer on behalf of the government and an answer also binds the whole government. If we had to experience problems on a regular basis or if it is so unclear that questions are being dealt with, then I will take that up with the members of the government. For the time being, however, I do not think it is wrong that this point should also be addressed in the policy paper of Minister Khattabi, who in turn will not deny that Minister Van der Straeten is competent for a part of the exercise. They therefore each have a part of the competence, as the regions also have their powers. In it one can go a little further or a little less far.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u57	Special laws apply to the powers of the Regions. Now we are talking about the division between the ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u58	And that particular law has never given rise to problems of interpretation in practice? Oh, come on. Let us look at it with a cheerful note. Mr Ben Achour, we are not going to make an institutional reform here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u59	Mr President, absolutely not! I'm changing the subject. Are we going to exhaust the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u60	We'll try.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u61	I would like to turn my question No 5555010085C into a written question because I have a meeting in nine minutes and another with the OSCE in 39 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u62	Question No 5555010085C by Mr. Ben Achour is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u63	Madam Minister, the Combined Grid Solution project of network operator Elia has attracted my attention. Elijah scored 50 Hertz through her German daughter, a world first recently, by connecting a group of wind farms at sea with two countries. In the Baltic Sea, the world's first international wind farm hub was inaugurated. An international cluster of three parks that can supply electricity in two directions has thus been designed. Not only can the green current be controlled in two directions, but the connection can also be used as an export cable in case of low wind production to exchange power. Through Combined Grid Solution you can avoid underutilisation of the cables and increase the utilisation rate. This also reduces social costs. The European Commission sees a lot of potential in these maritime hubs. She had the analysis firm Roland Berger examine various possibilities in the North Sea and the Baltic Sea. For a selection of five projects, the researchers concluded that a combination of an export cable and a wind farm connection could cost 10 percent or 2.5 billion euros over 25 years. Madam Minister, could you explain the possible future possibilities in the Belgian context of pooling cables for different parks? Elia herself expects opportunities for Belgium as well, because in the future there will be farshore projects as a result of the desired development of European offshore wind energy. I am referring to a link with windy areas in the Netherlands, Denmark, Norway and so on. Can you explain more about the news that for the future second wind zone off the Belgian coast, the Princess Elisabeth zone, a direct connection to England would not be optimal and more expensive than a normal connection to Belgium and a second separate interconnection cable, Nautilus in research by Elia I thought, between Belgium and England?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u64	Mr President, I note that a different question was asked than was announced.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u65	I've announced the right question. Since I grant a great deal of freedom to Members of Parliament, I am not going to improve them in their way of questioning, but you have made a mistake, Mr Ravyts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u66	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u67	Mr President, Mrs Dierick had also tabled questions on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u68	I shall now give the floor to Mrs Dierick.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u69	Madam Minister, Mr Ravyts has outlined the situation well. The new federal government agreement states the following positive note: "We are investigating whether additional capacity can be achieved from offshore winds in the Belgian North Sea, as well as beyond territorial waters, in cooperation with other countries located on the North Sea. We do this by taking an active role within the North Seas Energy Cooperation. Following the news of Elijah, the scoop and the new coalition agreement, I have a number of questions. What is the state of research to achieve additional offshore capacity outside territorial waters and in cooperation with other countries? What countries are open to cooperating with our country in the long term? Have any contacts been made with other countries? What's possible? How's the North Seas Energy Cooperation meeting going? What do you think of the combined Grid Solution system, which was implemented by Elia? Would it also be interesting for Belgium now or in the future to make connections with other wind farms in the Netherlands, Norway, Denmark or Scotland, for example? If so, will you take steps yourself? If not, why isn't it interesting?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u70	Colleagues, Mrs Dierick, you rightly refer to the declaration of government. It is indeed being examined how additional capacity can be found. We are of course looking at this first with our immediate neighbours France and the Netherlands, which are developing windmill areas next to the Belgian zones. We are not only looking at how to optimize and interconnect the use of the zones, but also how to connect the connectors to the wind farms. For this we first look at the United Kingdom, which will develop several parks. We're looking at how we can connect it to the second, yet to be built, submarine cable. That's the Nautilus project. At a later stage, further connections are certainly possible. On 3 December 2010, a memorandum of understanding was signed by ten countries and the European Energy Commissioner. Those ten countries are Belgium, Denmark, Germany, France, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, United Kingdom and Sweden. They have committed themselves to developing offshore networks in the North Sea that will contribute to the security of supply of electricity in the future and the necessary onshore connections. They share the common objective of achieving a low carbon economy while maintaining energy security at the lowest possible cost for consumers. I would remind you that the North Seas Energy Cooperation was founded at the initiative of Belgium, by the then Energy Minister, Mr Magnette. Next year, in 2021, we will be ten years further. Belgium will then again be President of the North Seas Energy Cooperation, together with the European Commissioner for Energy, Mrs Simson. At present, four work areas have been defined in the framework of The North Seas Energy Cooperation: hybrid and joint projects, maritime spatial planning, support mechanism and funding and delivery of the Objectives for 2050. There is also an ad hoc working group on standards and technical rules in the offshore wind sector. Those working groups are led jointly by representatives of the countries and the European Commission. Belgium is co-chair of the Working Party with the Netherlands on the delivery of the Objectives for 2050. We will chair the whole initiative in 2021, following Germany. In the specific case of the Princess Elisabeth Zone, I would like to point out that the distance between the zone and the connection point to the Belgian transmission network means that the most cost-effective solution is an AC solution. The proposed connection option is therefore the best option for this project. It makes it possible to achieve an optimum between the investment costs of the network infrastructure, maintenance costs, redundancy and availability and the impact on the environment. It also makes it possible to minimise the total infrastructure costs for the community, parks and networks. I am certainly in favour of this, even though Combined Grid Solutions is not possible everywhere, but it is thanks to our highly innovative TSO Elia that such solutions are possible. It is also Elia's intention to continue with this. She will definitely have a minister with me who will continue to support this policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u71	Mr President, first of all I should like to apologise to Mrs Dierick for the jump in the agenda. I do have another question about the Smart Sector Integration. For a moment, I was confused by all that English. Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. So you are in favour of this innovative thing, which Elijah is begging. I would also like to thank you for the technical explanation of the possibilities surrounding the Princess Elisabeth Zone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u72	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Ravyts for taking a leap in the agenda, so that my question could be dealt with more quickly. I'm sure you can still do that. Madam Secretary, I note that you are in favour of this. I share your view that we need to look at where this can be applied most efficiently and that it is not a good solution everywhere. I would also like to thank you for the technical explanation. The fact that Belgium will be able to hold the Presidency again next year is something to look forward to. I hope that we can discuss this regularly. That is a nice challenge and an opportunity for our country to put itself even more into the picture.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u73	Madam Secretary, I will try to be brief. You are aware of Carbon Capture Utilisation & Storage (CCUS), which can play an important role in decarbonisation. In the meantime, the Antwerp@C consortium can count on EUR 9 million of European grants to make a detailed calculation of the cost of the basic infrastructure needed to enable the collection, storage and long-term reuse of CO2. A final investment decision might follow in 2022. This concerns the construction of a new pipeline network, a connection with Rotterdam and the construction of an installation to make CO2 liquid and thus ship. Your predecessor, through the AD Energy, asked for an opinion on a number of legal-technical aspects relating to the distribution of competences in the field of hydrogen and renewable gas, which we are ultimately discussing. Your predecessor stated on 30 June that any federal support to the consortium could only be given after the results of the analysis of the opinion by the AD Energy would be known. In the light of the Green Deal, the scope of the European gas decarbonisation package has now been extended to include a broader initiative on Smart Sector Integration. For example, the optimal interaction between different energy carriers, such as electricity, gas, heat and hydrogen, and between various policy areas, in particular Energy, Transport, Industrial Policy and Agriculture, will be considered. What is the Belgian position on the European Smart Sector Integration? What possibilities does this Smart Sector Integration offer for Belgium? Could you explain the opinion on the legal and technical aspects of the division of competences on hydrogen and renewable gas? Does the Federal Government consider that support for this is exclusively a regional competence? That is the crux of the matter. You know that the Flemish Government is very committed to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u74	Mr Ravyts, on 8 July the European Commission published its EU strategy for energy system integration, developing a holistic vision of the future energy system with a view to achieving the increased level of ambition it advocates. The Belgian position, prepared together with the regions, supports this more integrated approach. There are three major axes: energy efficiency first, decarbonising all energy sectors and working in a cost-efficient way. Energy efficiency is not only about reducing energy demand but also about making the most efficient use of scarce renewable energy sources. The comparative advantages of each sector are weighed against each other, avoiding as far as possible conversions, which are always accompanied by losses. As far as decarbonisation is concerned, different technologies are used. It is a priority for which the CCUS mentioned by you is certainly an interesting slope that we are looking at. The development of renewable electricity production continues to be the main policy objective, given the strong commitment to electrification. Decarbonisation of gases and liquids, such as methane or green hydrogen, is also gaining in importance. Cost efficiency is particularly important because investments in additional infrastructure should be avoided as far as possible. Efforts are being made to re-use existing infrastructure as far as possible. At the end of this year and next year, legislative initiatives from the European Commission are expected to give concrete substance to these widely supported principles. The division of competences between hydrogen, renewable gases and CO2 is complex. An exploratory study of this division of powers was launched by my administration, the AD Energy. This research has produced a number of first insights, but also a number of new questions. Further analysis and elaboration are needed and are currently under way. For these gases there are points of reference for both federal and regional powers. They are also not easy to fit in with the special law of 1980, which implies cooperation between the federal government and the regional authorities. In any case, this will be necessary in order to develop a coherent policy so that these gases can play their role in the energy transition and to provide peace and security for the sector, which is planning projects in respect of these gases.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u75	Mr President, Minister, with regard to decarbonisation through various technologies, it is particularly difficult to incorporate this into the special law of 1980. It has already been mentioned that it is very difficult to achieve a division in this area. I am curious to see how the dossier will develop in the coming years. We follow it closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u76	Mr President, Madam Minister, the negotiation process for the modernisation of the Energy Charter Treaty was launched in Brussels last December. Since then, two rounds of negotiations have already taken place. In my view, it is imperative that this treaty be reformed for at least three reasons. Firstly, it represents an obstacle to the energy transition and it is contrary to the climate objectives that the European Union has established itself. Secondly, it limits the possibility for governments to carry out reforms in the field of energy transition. Thirdly, it represents a sword of Damocles above our heads and, in particular, above the heads of governments, since lawsuits against states that decide, for example, to abandon coal or nuclear power, may be initiated by investors. Minister, what are the results of the last two rounds of negotiations? What position will Belgium take in the third round of negotiations to be held in November? Will it be different from the one adopted in the previous two rounds? What does Belgium put on the table to hope to achieve more ambitious climate targets under this Energy Charter Treaty? I would also like to ask you a question about the famous sunset clause. Even if it were decided to withdraw from the Treaty, its effects could be maintained for 20 years. How could this sunset clause be reformed, at least in terms of its effects? Finally, how can we prevent the ISDS mechanism from being triggered towards the states of the European Union in order to maintain the primacy of our climate objectives?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u77	Madam President, the process of modernising the Energy Charter Treaty is indeed under way. The aim is to improve the system of investment protection in a procedural manner and to integrate contemporary investment protection standards with clear definitions and safeguards for the State's right to regulate, adapt and, where appropriate, strengthen, inter alia, economic definitions in the energy sector. Between 6 and 9 July 2020 a first real round of negotiations took place and between 8 and 11 September 2020 there was a second round via videoconference. In the EU's Modernisation and Coordination Group, Belgium has supported the importance of paying more attention to the sustainability aspect and the scope of the Charter. Belgium wants to adapt the Charter accordingly and to bring it more closely into line with the COP agreements. However, the Belgian Government has not so far recommended that the scope of the Charter be completely changed towards phasing-out of fossil fuels and thus only focus on energy efficiency and sustainable investment. For the majority of contracting parties, a ban on fossil fuels does not seem realistic or feasible. In addition, the principle of non-discrimination would prevent this. Your predecessor stressed that Belgium is in favour of extending investment protection to renewable energy sources. She actually wanted to keep the two roads open. Can you give an overview of the current state of play in the second round of negotiations and what is the Belgian position for the next, third round, which will take place at the beginning of November? Are you continuing your predecessor's policy that all energy sources should be treated on an equal footing in the context of the Energy Charter and that the issue of investment protection is therefore an en-en-story?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u78	Mr President, Cogolati and Ravyts, the summary of the main results and topics discussed in the second round of negotiations, as well as the whole process that led to this, can be found on the Energy Charter Treaty website. The following issues were addressed on energy-related issues: transit, definition and access to infrastructure, including refusal of access and available capacity. In addition, a very important topic for Belgium was addressed, namely sustainable development and corporate social responsibility. The other positions and statements adopted by Belgium were limited to technical points of view as regards transit. For the issue of sustainable development and corporate social responsibility, the existing Belgian position, as defined by DGE, was defended, in particular in line with the EU position. In this context, Belgium, in support of other EU Member States, has specifically called for the reference to the Paris climate agreement to be included as a common thread and a breaking point. An important remaining issue that has not yet been discussed concerns the discussion on the definition of economic activity in the energy sector. This discussion was initially planned to be discussed during the first round of negotiations, but has still not been discussed, as there is no proposal on the table because of the European Commission, which is necessary for the EU to have a position as a basis for the discussions. The main focus here is that this definition needs to be adapted to the current international energy and climate context. Internal consultation is still ongoing between DG Energy and DG Competition, which seek consensus on this before submitting it to EU Member States. At technical level, like the German Presidency during the EU coordination meeting and technical working groups, we have repeatedly called for this to be discussed at EU level as soon as possible, as this is at the heart of the modernisation talks. Until today, there is no proposal on the table, which means that it will no longer be possible to discuss it during the third round of negotiations scheduled for the beginning of November. It will therefore only be possible to discuss it within the ECT in 2021 at the earliest, which is regrettable. The most important thing, however, is that this definition should be adapted in accordance with the current context of green transition. Belgium will therefore be in favour of the inclusion of the protection of renewable energy sources. In-house Belgian consultations should be discussed with all interested parties, namely the federal level, the Regions, the Government of the Buildings and the Trade Commissioner, as soon as the text proposal of the European Commission is available. Further consultations are also needed within the federal government and the competent federated entities. At the moment, there is no proposal on the table. This means that it will no longer be possible to discuss it in the third round of negotiations scheduled for early November. It will therefore not be possible to discuss this within the ECT until 2021 at the earliest, which is regrettable. But the most important thing is that this definition will in all cases be adjusted according to the current context of the green transition. Belgium will advocate the inclusion of renewable energy. The intra-Belgian consultation on this subject must be discussed at appropriate times, that is, as soon as the European Commission's proposal for a text is available, with all the parties concerned. Like my predecessor, I will certainly ensure that a good balance is struck between security of supply, on the one hand, and the stimulation of the green transition, on the other. The sunset clause (sunset clause), to which Mr Cogolati referred, is not part of the agreed list of topics for modernization, approved by the conference in November 2018 and accessible to the public on the ECT website. After withdrawal of the Agreement, this sunset clause ensures that the provisions of the Agreement remain applicable for 20 years. The Achmea judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union gave rise to divergences within the Council due to a divergence of interpretation as to its scope and consequences on the use of the arbitration clauses of the Energy Charter Treaty within the European Union. Belgium has decided to submit a request for an opinion to the Court of Justice of the European Union to provide legal clarity on the question of the intra-European application of the arbitral provisions of the Energy Charter Treaty, modernised with the Treaties of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u79	Minister, thank you for that answer. I do believe that it is essential to modernise this treaty and to be able to make it simply more coherent with the other international agreements that we have signed, in particular the Paris Agreement. We simply need to be able to meet our climate objectives, which, I would remind you, require us to respect climate neutrality, carbon neutrality by 2050. Minister, I obviously support your efforts. I also support the request for an opinion to the Court of Justice of the European Union because it is important to provide legal clarity that, yes, there is a primacy of European law and climate objectives in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u80	Madam Secretary, thank you for that state of affairs. There is apparently still internal consultation between the various European DGs about the heart of the matter. There is no Commission proposal yet, and that will not be the subject of debate until early November 2021. We'll follow up on that file.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u81	Mr Cogolati, on a proposal from the Committee on Nuclear Supplies, the Government has committed itself to strengthening the legal framework in this area in order to ensure the existence, sufficiency and availability of provisions. To this end, I will write to the Commission inviting it to submit such a proposal, so that we can implement what is contained in the government agreement. The Act of 11 April 2003 on provisions for the dismantling of nuclear power plants and for the management of irradiated fissile material in such plants provides that it is Synatom which defines its investment policy, while it is the responsibility of the Commission for Nuclear Supplies to ensure that it complies with the requirements of the Act. The new technical reference scenario of ONDRAF, which serves as the basis for the establishment of nuclear supplies, delays the start of geological storage by 30 years. The ONDRAF type 3 recommendations cannot be precisely quantified at the moment, but must be followed up by the Commission because they can have an impact on the adequacy of the provisions. The AFCN recalled, among other things, the importance of complying with Belgium's nuclear safeguards obligations in compliance with the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. With regard to your question about the discount rate and benchmark used, the annual report tells us that an analysis has been carried out using the skills of its members, based on the usual interest rate on the financial markets, expected economic growth, Fisher's risk equation, inflation, the credit risk of the ENGIE group, the automatic format rate, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority and the guaranteed return of Belgian group insurance. For the rest, as you know, the work and deliberations of the Committee are confidential. The Commission has adopted a discount rate of 3.25% for provisions for the management of irradiated fissile material, following the nuclear operator's proposal to progressively repay by the end of 2025 – at the latest – loans granted on the basis of provisions for the management of irradiated fissile material and no longer to contract new loans for this component. The Commission has adopted a discount rate of 2.5% for the provisions set aside for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants. As part of the next three-year review in 2022, a further assessment of discount rates will take place. While significant developments have taken place in the meantime, both in financial markets and/or in the field of medium-term macroeconomic forecasts, it has been decided that the Commission reserves the right to revise its opinion in advance as to the discount rate to be used. If significant developments in the financial markets and/or in the field of medium-term macroeconomic forecasts occurred before the next three-year review in 2022, the Commission reserved the right to revise its opinion in advance as to the discount rate to be used. The calculation of nuclear provisions is not limited to the rate of discounting nuclear provisions. It is also important that the technical scenario be feasible in terms of the long-term management of medium- and high-level radioactive waste and the reprocessing of spent fuel from our nuclear power plants. The technical scenario presented by Synatom provides for the reprocessing of part of its spent fuel, including leaking pencils. This scenario is also the most conservative in terms of provisioning. It is therefore important that Synatom finalize its trade negotiations as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u82	Madam Minister, thank you, and I am pleased that this issue can finally move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u83	Minister, the electrification of the Belgian fleet is likely to intensify in the coming years. In fact, among the objectives set by the government are the renewal of company cars with a thermal motor, be it petrol or diesel, by vehicles running by electric means. Recent studies in Germany and France suggest that the switch to electricity should lead to the loss of several thousand jobs in Europe, particularly in the field of after-sales. Electric motors are less complex than combustion engines and require less maintenance. In addition, since electrical and electronic components are massively produced in China, there is a risk of a decrease in the workforce in Europe. My questions are as follows. Firstly, has a study already been carried out in Belgium analysing the employment consequences of the development of electric vehicles? If so, what are the conclusions? If not, will such a study be carried out in the near future? Is it in the government's intentions to order it? Secondly, if electrification of vehicles to the detriment of thermal-powered vehicles could lead to the disappearance of certain occupations, it could also lead to an increase in the need for new occupations specific to the production of this type of vehicle. What could these new jobs be? Have they been identified yet? Would it not be appropriate, now, to analyse the needs with your colleague, the Federal Minister for Employment, but also to cooperate and discuss with the Community federated entities in order to reflect on the organisation of course programmes that will enable future labour needs to be met?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u84	Dear colleague, thank you for your question. I am sorry, but in fact this is a matter for Mr Gilkinet, the Minister for Mobility, and Mr Dermagne, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour. I'm sorry to tell you that I could have answered this problem in a more proactive way, but I'm finding out...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u85	It would have been better to note this before Mr. Bombled developed his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u86	I'm so sorry. I'll do better next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u87	I forgive you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u88	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u89	I think we're all gonna have to look it up a little bit. But that question will then be delivered to Minister Gilkinet, and that will be done by you, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u90	Mr President, I am going to transfer it to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u91	I insist that Mr Bombled receive an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u92	Mr President, Madam Minister, on this new issue, I am sure that you have jurisdiction in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u93	Mr President, Mr Cogolati, you can be sure of my competence in this matter. As regards security of supply, on 18 March 2020, the supplier of Electrabel's nuclear fuel for the Doel 1 and Doel 2 power plants obtained an export licence from the competent federal authority in Germany without any difficulty. A German citizen started legal proceedings against this licence in April 2020. This procedure is still under way and I cannot rule on the substance of it. On the grounds of urgency, this supplier filed an application with the competent administrative court to be able to carry out this export within the contractual time limits agreed with Electrabel. This was refused on 16 October 2020. This supplier appealed this decision. A new decision is expected in this case by the beginning of 2021 at the latest. The technical specificities of the fuels for Doel 1 and Doel 2 plants make it difficult for Electrabel to find another supplier within a reasonable time. The situation is therefore serious. My services were informed of this by Electrabel last Friday. We analyze it and evaluate its consequences with my administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u94	Minister, thank you for your full response.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u95	Madam Minister, the Royal Decree of 20 December 2000 has always been based on the complete disposal of installations linked to offshore windmills. To this end, the necessary arrangements were made at the time to ensure that operators would assume responsibility for this. In the meantime, it is known that the possibilities for offshore windmills in the North Sea remain limited. The new government is committed to realizing the same capacity as the Michael administration advanced at the time. Of course, then, the question arises as to what will happen in the long term with the oldest wind farms, given that we in Europe still have limited experience of dismantling offshore wind turbines. In 2018 there was for the first time a repo of an offshore wind farm in Sweden. Is this also a real option for us, which can be cost-effective, if, for example, some of the installations can be maintained? Of course, this requires a clear strategy. When the mentioned KB was issued, it was not yet discussed, because all windmills had yet to be realized. Do you stick only to the options in the Royal Decree or are you willing to look at them in a broader way? Do you intend to make the necessary preparations in order to examine the option of repo protection of the oldest wind farms and to establish an appropriate regulatory framework for this? How can the high voltage system operator respond to this potential? I quote this because the high-voltage grid in Sweden could not handle full repossession on a higher capacity and the solution was to proceed to partial repossession. Are you planning initiatives with the high voltage system operator at that point? Finally, at the moment there is a project called Decom Tools to make the dismantling of windmills easier, cheaper and more sustainable. The port of Ostend is involved. Is the federal government itself involved in this? Does she want to be involved? In what way would that be possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u96	Mr Wollants, it seems that the Royal Decree in question of 20 December 2000 provides for appropriate rules, in particular by reading Articles 3 and 24 together. Article 3 deals with the criteria for granting domain concessions. Article 24 deals with the measures to be taken in the event of the expiry or withdrawal of a project as a result of a revocation or renunciation. As the final deadline for the first offshore parks approaches, we will have to take that further. According to the above mentioned KB of 20 December 2000, the total duration of a domain concession cannot in principle exceed 30 years. Since 3 June 2019 and pursuant to Article 6, third paragraph, of the Electricity Act, the construction and operation of an installation for the production of electricity from renewable energy sources in the maritime areas under the jurisdiction of Belgium can only be authorised after the organisation of a competitive tendering procedure. Such prospects can be expected to be anticipated in the network operator's federal development plan. Interreg projects are managed regionally. In this case, there is no federal involvement, as it reflects the industrial development and role of ports. However, there is a new task in the international energy agency with regard to commissioning, for which a federal participation is envisaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u97	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The possible disposal of mills is effectively registered in the KB, there is no doubt about that. However, if one is considering re-using a portion in the context of a repurchase agreement, it seems very difficult for me to maintain that maximum concession period unless one would allow another player to continue working with the existing installations and thus not be completely removed. There is a certain field of tension, and I would advise you to go further into this matter. After all, we must avoid going into a situation where C-Power takes everything away and then we must point out someone to start from scratch, which could involve a waste of raw materials and waste of time. After all, there may be some time between the cessation of the concession and the start of the production of the new mills, while we actually only have room for 4 GW. That was the thrust of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u98	Mr President, Madam Minister, some reports have already been written internationally on the use of the residual cold released by the regasification of LNG with a view to its injection into the natural gas transport network. All kinds of technical elements are investigated for this, including the transport of that cold via other media. Liquid air and liquid nitrogen are sometimes mentioned in this context. A number of specialists have pointed out to me the opportunities in this area. Through Fluxys, the federal government is also involved, although indirectly, in the energy demand of the LNG terminal at Zeebrugge. In this respect, it is possible to build a bridge between the LNG terminal and the West Flemish frozen cluster in order to determine whether a project is conceivable that can save very much energy from these companies and thus make a significant contribution in terms of energy efficiency. You said earlier that you want to support the regions in their efforts. Maybe this can fit in there? I would like to ask the following questions. Have studies already been carried out in this area in order to use this residual cold in a useful way? Do you think it is useful to continue or start this exercise? Are you prepared to take the necessary initiatives in so far as this is covered by your powers? Do you think it would be useful to discuss these possibilities with your Flemish colleague?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u99	Mr President, Mr Wollants, energy efficiency remains the guiding principle in the energy transition. In order to create synergies in this area, I am, of course, always prepared to consult with the regions. More specifically with your question about the use of residual cold released from LNG regassing, I can tell you that Fluxys has already analysed the possibility of reusing the frigories of the LNG terminal at Zeebrugge. The analysis showed that such a project is not feasible for the following reasons: the geographical location of the terminal compared to potentially interested cold customers; the varying nature of the cold production, since the use of the regasification of the LNG is determined by customers according to market needs; the high investment costs for the installation adjustment and also for the cryogenic transport of the cold. In order to increase energy efficiency, Fluxys has carried out various energy studies and investments for the LNG terminal at Zeebrugge, among others. A concrete example of such an investment is the installation of an open rack vaporizer, using the heat of the seawater to bring the cold LNG, minus 163 degrees Celcius, into gas form, so that gas can then be injected into the Fluxys gas transport network. The studies and plans drawn up under the Flemish Energy Decree show that the LNG terminal at Zeebrugge is one of the world's top energy efficiency targets compared to other LNG terminals in Europe and in the rest of the world. The most recent energy study of the LNG terminal shows that the additional deployment of the open rack vaporizers is the best solution to further increase energy efficiency. A study is currently under way to further install an open rack vaporizer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u100	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I will look further into this issue to see what is possible. The opportunity is there to deal with this as efficiently as possible. The fact that we now belong to the world's top does not mean that we should rest on our laurels. If we push the limits of the world summit, I think we are moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u101	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns European competition rules. Mrs Vestager, the Executive Vice-President of the European Commission, said that it would be interesting to combine competition policy with the European Green Deal. On 13 October, it made an appeal aimed not only at the minister or other policy makers, but also at industry, environmental organisations and so on. Madam Secretary has already had coffee with Mrs Vestager. I wonder, therefore, whether she has talked about this and whether she will do so herself. How does it intend to encourage the industry sector or others involved in the field to respond to this call by Mrs Vestager?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u102	Thank you for your question, Mr Verduyckt. In corona times it is difficult to drink coffee when there is still a physical consultation. So we didn't do that when I was with Mrs. Vestager. My meeting with her also took place before the launch of her call. She had already made a statement on this subject on 20 September, but it was not the subject of our discussion. Nor have we strayed to this subject. Will my administration start working on the approach of this call? You yourself said that she is a asking party for a broad input as policy support for her own work. In this sense, the first to be addressed are mainly interested parties. Mr Van Peteghem said on the radio this morning about the tax instruments that he wants to work in the same way and he also asks for input to the field of work. On this point, my administration will have to be mainly facilitating or not being the first to respond. It has to be the full force of the various stakeholders, which you list yourself, to provide that input. Shall I call on the energy sector to consider this? I can only hope that the energy sector will take this to heart. They are ideally placed to provide input, given that energy investments are so crucial in the context of the Green Deal, also in the context of our recovery plans and the transmission we have to go through. An efficient regulatory framework for State aid is therefore essential for them. I know the sector a little bit and I know that they are following very closely what is happening, both nationally and internationally. I am assuming that I will not have to give too much encouragement to this, but that they will be sufficiently proactive themselves. All this proves that I am not getting rid of it by saying that this is also the responsibility of Mrs Khattabi, but that the government is one and indivisible and that, in the light of the coalition agreement, we can give answers to the questions we are being asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u103	I have great faith in Mrs Vestager, as you know. Do you have a reply, Mr Verduyck?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic288x.u104	The answer of the one and indivisible government is sufficient, Mr President.
