ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic293x.u1	Mr President, allow me to put together my first two questions, because the first question has already been partly addressed in plenary. Mr Secretary of State, on 21 July the news was published in the media that the Belgian company Devside can build the corona app. "The Belgian technology company Devside from Brussels is commissioned to develop an app by September to warn people if they may have been in contact with a corona patient," headlined De Tijd at the time. This was also confirmed by the spokesman for the committee, Carmen De Rudder. So it turned out to be a small obscure company that was commissioned to build the app. However, there are several disturbing indicators. The company turns out to be a brainchild of Brusselsian Jean-Paul de Ville de Goyet. That in itself is not disturbing, he is the man behind the electric section Troty, but also behind the company Pumbby. With that company he had already come into dispute because of the non-compliance of a competitive clause. In addition, after barely two years, that company was already in a state of crisis. Developer Devside mentioned a number of customer references on the website that turned out not to be a customer with the company. On request, however, those unfairly mentioned customer references were deleted. Of course, this is not conducive to confidence in the developer of the app and therefore the app itself. Are you aware of these practices of Devside? What is your opinion on the various negative reports that appeared at the time with regard to this firm? Are you behind the choice for the company Devside to develop that contact tracing app? Or do you think it would have been better to have recourse to another firm? On what basis was this company selected and why was this company just selected? On June 2nd, a message appeared in the media that the cooperative Xenia, an app developed for contact tracing in the hospitality industry. Customers need to scan a specific QR code with their smartphone when visiting hospitality stores. Afterwards, they will receive a digital registration form on their smartphone asking them to fill in some personal data. The visitor to a hospitality store therefore transmits his personal data to a third party processor, which will, of course, be stored in some database. This raises a number of concerns about privacy and data protection. My questions are as follows. Are you aware that Xenia offers such a private contact tracking app to the catering business? What is your position on this app in terms of guaranteeing citizens' privacy and data protection? Do you consider it necessary to take steps against the roll-out of contact tracking apps by such third-party private companies? I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic293x.u2	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I too have a question about the contact tracing app. Since early October 2020 our citizens can install the Coronalert app. The app maps close contacts so that someone can easily be notified via the app when they have been in close contact with an infected person. Like any other technological app, the user also encounters some technical problems with that app. After the latest update of the app, some users would still have received error messages and could not even install or use the app. Since Sciensano is the developer of the app or is behind its development, users would have contacted Sciensano to inform them that they could no longer use the app. Unfortunately, however, no answer has been given to this report. That is why I have the following questions for you. Do you know of any major technical problems with the app? Is there a central point where users can report technical problems with the app? If yes, how many reports have already been received? If the answer is no, will you still consider setting up such a central hotline? Finally, how many emails has Sciensano already received with the notification that the Coronalert app no longer works with the user in question?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic293x.u3	Mr President, I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for their questions. First of all, allow me to point out that the Coronalert app may be regarded as a success. Since its launch, the app has been downloaded 1,600 million times, corresponding to more than 20 % of smartphone users. Last week, for example, 21,700 results were charged in the app, including 4,400 positive results. We can and will all have to do even better. With regard to the functioning of the Coronalert app, I will confine myself to the questions that belong to my domain of competence, in particular the protection of the privacy of users. For the other questions I have to refer to the competent authorities. You are undoubtedly aware that the legislative framework of the contact investigation application states that the Länder are the providers of the app and that the Minister of Health has custody of Sciensano. In general, I would like to stress that the Coronalert app has been developed in full compliance with the applicable privacy rules. In fact, a recent Council of Europe report puts Belgium forward as an example for the development of such apps, in particular in the areas of transparency, privacy, impact assessments, consultation of a data protection authority and the introduction of specific legislation. First of all, I would like to emphasise that the Coronalert app is completely anonymous and voluntary. Nevertheless, the app plays an important role in the strategy to combat the coronavirus and encouragements to download the Coronalert app can only be welcomed. The app only uses Bluetooth Low Energy to exchange anonymous codes between smartphones close to each other. On some devices, when bluetooth is activated, a notification that refers to the possible use of location data appears, but the app does not use it. The only personal data that is automatically shared by the user is his IP address. However, Coronalert does not save the IP address. It is deleted whenever the connection of the smartphone to the app's system is disconnected. Since the app only uses anonymous data, it can never be deduced who is at what location. Monitoring of users is therefore not possible. In order for the app to run technically, the services of some companies and government organisations are used, but only anonymous information from users is processed. As far as the app's source code is concerned, it is open source and can be analyzed by anyone. By the way, there is a link to the source code on the app's website. Of course, the necessary measures were also taken to ensure the information security of the app. Therefore, unnoticed updates of the app cannot be done by unauthorized persons. If important technical adjustments to the app are made, an additional information security audit may be carried out. The GBA has been consulted on several occasions, both on the legislative framework and on the functioning of the app. These comments were therefore taken into account. An audit was also carried out by an independent specialised firm. All this information is available on the app's website. I was also confirmed that public procurement legislation was closely monitored when the developer of the app was appointed. As far as I know, the cooperation with Devside is proceeding in a correct manner. The recent malfunctions in the operation of the app were at the level of the frontend of the app. This is the responsibility of the Länder. They are responsible for the maintenance of the front end of the app. Scienscano is the national contact point for Apple and Google, but only because they allow only a national health administration as an app provider within their app stores. However, Sciensano confines itself to questions about privacy and security for the backend of the app. For the rest, the Länder have set up a central hotline, which is managed by the competent health administrations of the Länder. The Coronalert app will remain available until the federal government decides that the coronapandemic is over. From that point of view, the app will no longer be able to be downloaded via the app stores and users will be encouraged to delete the app and their data. The Coronalert app is the only official contact search app in Belgium. This does not preclude other apps being developed through private initiatives, for example in the catering sector, to register the presence of customers, as imposed by the government when reducing the summer measures. Such initiatives can therefore work further for the Coronalert app, but one must in any case strictly comply with the privacy laws. It's the GBA's job to see to that. I would like to conclude by stressing once again the importance of this app. The more people use it, the more the app will be able to contribute effectively to reducing the spread of this virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic293x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the answer, but you have not answered my questions. You have just given the same answer that was also given in plenary. I had specific questions about the company Devside and the situation surrounding it. This gives little confidence in the app and raises mistrust about privacy and privacy protection. It is clear that the previous government has messed up, with enough blunders to write a book about it. As far as we are concerned, awarding the app to the company Devside is quite a blunder. At least they should have obtained more information about the credentials of this company. We are talking about an app that is intended to be used by millions of people. In our view, a better control of this was necessary. Xenia's app, for us, does not require private companies to record all kinds of data about people visiting hospitality stores, even sensitive information about potential health risks. A registration on contact tracing should be handled within the catering business itself, not by third parties. In the meantime, these data appear to be a measure of nothing: where they were recorded, they were hardly requested by the government. I hope that as a new Secretary of State, you will closely monitor this and take the necessary initiatives to ensure the privacy of our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic293x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your explanation. I understand you're calling everyone to download the app. I understand that the President of the previous speaker has no confidence in the app, which I regret. Can you say today that you are fully behind the app, that you installed it yourself and that it is installed on your smartphone? Thank you for answering that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic293x.u6	Yeah, the app's on my phone. That has also proved useful, because, as you may know, I was infected with the corona virus myself. So it was very important. I think it's up to every citizen to download the corona app.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic293x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, we have come to the conclusion that many of the brands belonging to local discount chains such as Trafic or clothing stores such as Zeb and parapharmacies such as Medi-Market ask their customers for their identity card in order to use it as a customer card via an electronic card reader. However, you are aware that Recommendation No. 03/2011 of 25 May 2011 on the taking of copies of identity cards and their use and electronic reading by the Privacy Commission states that "the identification of a person can be made by means of an identity card" and that "the identification of a person can only be made if it is necessary for the completion of the processing of the data". Finally, the recommendation explicitly stresses that "in the development of the loyalty card, identification is sufficiently achieved by means of the presentation of a proof of identity document such as the identity card. Once the loyalty card has been established, it is no longer relevant or necessary to ask the person concerned to present his/her identity card at each visit." However, Mr Secretary of State, it must be noted that the system of assimilation of the identity card to the customer card or to the loyalty card used by the signs I have just mentioned involves asking for the identity card not only when registering the customer's loyalty card, but also on the occasion of each of his subsequent purchases. Mr. Secretary of State, can we have you back on this issue? Do we know the nature of the data processed during the use of identity cards as customer cards by the mentioned signs? Are initiatives to address this issue being considered? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic293x.u8	Mr President, thank you for your question. At the outset, I would like to point out to you an important element, as you mentioned, concerning the use of identity cards for the use of loyalty cards by commercial channels. In its opinion No 03/2011, the Privacy Commission, which was replaced by the Data Protection Authority, confirmed that the identity card could indeed serve as a basis for the establishment of a loyalty system. This opinion is also available on their website. In fact, identity cards not only play a crucial role in the relationship between citizens and public administration, particularly in the digitalisation of public services, but can also present an opportunity in the private sector, with a view to simplifying the lives of our citizens. Only data strictly relevant for the purpose of intended use - i.e. the practical and operational reasons for the collection of such data - can be read on the identity card. If an electronic reading of the identity card is carried out, it is imperative to comply with the principle of minimization of data and the obligation to protect data from design as well as by default. To this end, any computer application necessary for filtering only relevant, necessary and adequate data in the context of the intended purpose should be put in place. There are currently no technical restrictions related to the electronic identity card or the software used to read the identity card made available by the government, other than the application of the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) to any person. This map-reading software called "eID Viewer" is a GNU General Public Licensed software, and the eID software is designed on the basis of free software. I do not have any information on the data processed by the groups mentioned. However, one can imagine that what interests the trader is the possibility of simplifying the exchange of basic data such as the name or address of the customer, but also the possibility of using the identity card as a unique identifier in the context of a commercial relationship. Here too, therefore, there is a question of a form of simplification. Of course, it is up to the customer to adhere to such a digital loyalty offer on the basis of a consent that must always be free, specific and informed. The GDPR is also very clear on this subject: "The provision of a service cannot be conditional on consent to the transmission of personal data". In conclusion, I believe that data protection regulations allow us to explore the potential of identity cards outside the strictly public sphere, but I think we will come back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic293x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. First of all, given the answers you have just given, we can only support the simplification of data exchange in the context of use in the private sector. However, I would like to draw your attention to the principle of minimization and data protection, which you have also stressed. This is already the subject of much debate in the federal Parliament. It is a fact that must be taken into account. There is always this concern, however, about the transmission of personal data. I feel that you are receptive and that you are going to follow this file, and we will, as you said, have an opportunity to return to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic293x.u10	Mr Dermine, first of all I would like to welcome you to our committee. I assume you'll come to our committee regularly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic293x.u11	Minister, despite the second corona wave we are now experiencing, our economy is getting up slowly or moving in that direction. However, without a concrete re-launch plan, it will be really difficult to get our country back on track. A government has finally been formed. Concrete plans should not be delayed much longer. The EU Restoration Fund provides 5.15 billion to support our economy. We will definitely need this support and it will definitely have to be invested in the right way. The Member States must, of course, play a major role in this, as the regions have a great deal of re-launching powers. Is there any concrete work to be done on a consolidated relaunch plan? Who's in charge of the plan? Will the government consult the states for this? How will the federal government distribute the funds from the EU Restoration Fund? What's the deadline for distribution? Will part of the fund also be used federally or will everything be distributed among the Länder? How will the follow-up of the use of the fund be ensured?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic293x.u12	The federal government has made the recovery one of its top priorities. The coalition agreement provides for the rapid establishment of an inter-federal recovery and investment plan that must give our economy a boost and make it more resilient. The European Union expects Belgium to submit a single and consolidated plan for the whole country by 30 April 2021. I and my team will lead the development of that plan in cooperation with our partners in the federal government and with the Länder and the governments of the Länder. Not only will the Länder be consulted, but they will also be involved in the process. Indeed, the success of the interfederal recovery plan depends on existing initiatives and levers at the level of the Länder to stimulate our economy. We will therefore build on the regional recovery plan. The European Union has allocated a budget of €5.2 billion of grants to Belgium under the plan called Recovery and Resilience Facility, RRF. The available envelope will not be sufficient to cover all our country's investment needs. Nevertheless, it is a significant source of funding, which will have to be complemented by other regional sources, such as FPIM investment funds. The projects that can be included in the plan should, firstly, be consistent with European economic priorities, in particular greening and digitisation of our economy, secondly, be rapidly implemented in accordance with the Commission's timing, by 2026 and 70% by 2023, and, thirdly, have the highest structural impact on our economy. Finally, the RRF is not the only possible source of European financial output. There are still European Structural Funds and other programmes, such as the InvestEU Guarantee Fund, which will also contribute to efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic293x.u13	Thank you for your answer. Flanders accounts for over 58% of our GDP. So it would also be a logical step if this were taken into account and the money would be distributed in the same way. Most of the relance powers are also in the Länder. It would then also be logical for the largest budget to be allocated to that level. If it is discussed at federal level how the relaunch plan should take shape, it may also be normal and useful to consult Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic293x.u14	Be aware that we are well aware of regional interests. We will pay particular attention to the Länder as regional partners in the process.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic293x.u15	I saw the Minister nodding enthusiastically when I pointed out that Flanders accounts for 58% of our GDP. I am therefore pleased to hear that the Länder will be taken fully into account.
