ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u1	Colleagues, I've done some smart calculations. On Wednesday, it was decided to give some speaking time per group – including the CDH, Challenge and the independents, since Mr.Kir also introduced questions. If we refer to the time required, we arrive at eight minutes per actual member – subdivided into six minutes of question and two minutes of reply. Therefore, time will be measured by group according to the usual order. For your information, none-two questions have been tabled. Therefore, it would have been impossible to treat them one by one. Everyone has been warned of this. Each group is free to transfer the word from one author to another – as it will be given to those who have introduced at least one question. I gave the minister 20 minutes for her answers. As a reminder, I have received an explicit request from the Speaker to ensure that all replies can be heard. I suggest you start with the N-VA, which is entitled to three times six minutes – that is, if I calculate correctly, eighteen minutes. On the other hand, I would remind you that we do not have to exhaust all our time. We can also speak for less time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u2	Mr. President, please excuse me! You sent me an e-mail about that. No introduction, I agree: it is a mini-debate. I have also taken note of the internal regulation and I would appreciate it if time would be respected. I do, however, have a comment in relation to your press release that I would not be available to the Health Committee. I have three major departments, I have at least one core every day, I have a super core, last week three Inter-Ministerial Conferences and this week one, then consultation committees, European Councils, Councils of Ministers and the National Security Council. I am not going to go into any of that, but at 10 meetings I received 305 questions, one of which was merged. There were 126 questions in plenary. I have already given written answers to 263 questions in this session until 14 April. If you conclude from that that I do not provide Parliament with enough information, I do not think it is proper. It is hard to read that I would be the minister who is not present enough in the Chamber. There aren't many people who can present this story. I'm not taking any more time for this, but I want to say this anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u3	I'll give you a quick answer. I propose not to debate this now, perhaps for another time. When I sent the press release, I also thought I spoke on behalf of the other committee members. On Tuesday and Wednesday, they have also made it clear that they wish to receive you once a week to answer the questions. We're in the middle of a crisis. I know you have a busy agenda, which was also in the press release. However, as a Parliament, we believe that the Minister should be able to answer the questions here once a week in full time of crisis. Otherwise, of course, I do not manage the agenda of the core and such. So perhaps you should tell the Prime Minister that there must also be time for Parliament. That was the message.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u4	Mr President, there is a hierarchy. I respect yours in your capacity as chairman of the committee. There is also a hierarchy in the government. It's the Prime Minister who sets up the meetings. In Europe, it is Europe that sets the agenda. I have to settle. I'm not at the top of the pyramid. I must therefore take part in the meetings for which I am invited. I immediately proposed to hold the committee meeting on Friday. That wasn't possible at first. I'm glad it's possible now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u5	Mrs. De Block, I understand. However, you must also send my press release to the Prime Minister. After all, there is also a hierarchy in the Constitution. It states that the government must answer to Parliament. That's also a hierarchy. There is nothing you can do about that, but Mrs Wilmès must take that into account. I suggest we close the incident. I'm the representative of the committee. I felt it was my duty to do so, since on Easter Monday at 12 p.m. or 1 p.m. we received a cancellation which was sent to the secretariat the day before, and 7 days in advance it was decided to do that round of questions. When we receive the cancellation in the afternoon on Easter Monday, that is not correct. I wanted to express that. We can talk about it later. However, perhaps we should make good use of our precious time now. We take note that you are available. You've also come to the committee a lot. That's right. However, it is important that you come to the committee every week. We wanted to give that signal. We do not want to be cancelled at the last minute. I forgot to mention that you are not allowed to use the chat, because I do not see it, and the secretariat should keep an eye on many other technical matters. The chat may only be used to report technical issues, not to ask for the floor. To ask for the floor, it is the easiest thing to do when you raise your hand. Then we'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u6	I propose that we leave the floor to the N-VA.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u7	Mr President, Minister, I shall begin with the most important questions. One of them was submitted on 21 March, but I never got a good answer. It is about supporting the various healthcare institutions, including the rest homes, but also the institutions for people with disabilities. I submitted that question in March because I received signals, especially from the rest homes, that there was no support. They were asked to provide care institutions with a manual, which would provide an overview of materials, trousses, medications and the like, which they would be best able to take care of positive COVID-19 patients, who could no longer or wanted to be moved to a hospital. They also asked for support regarding the procedures with which they were not familiar. I am thinking, for example, of the correct use of personal protective equipment. I also asked if there was a plan to send doctors or healthcare staff from other institutions or agencies to these health care institutions. I did not receive an answer to that, even when I asked you to do so in plenary last week. You said there were possibilities, but you did not explain a concrete plan. I would now like to ask you whether there is a roadmap for the procedures, materials and medication provided to the health care institutions. If so, when? Has the government set up a collaboration between hospitals and rest homes? If so, since when? Is the exchange of care staff and doctors coordinated and carried out? If so, since when? Another important question is whether the distribution of the mouth masks in the beginning also immediately thought about the rest homes and care institutions or whether the whole stock went straight to the hospitals. Another question with which the care staff are in the institutions is whether they are insured for the medical and paramedical treatments that they now perform exceptionally in the healthcare institutions? I asked you this question last week in plenary, but you probably forgot to answer it. That's why I'm redoing them. There is also much to do about the count of the deaths by COVID-19 in the rest homes. It is not clear whether or not these people died of COVID-19. Last month I also proposed in plenary that sampling should be carried out in the event of any suspicious death, so that this sample can be analysed afterwards. If there is not enough test material available at the time, this can still be carried out afterwards. What do you think of this? Can this be carried out now? There is also uncertainty about the test criteria. According to Sciensano, only an outpatient person can still be tested if COVID-19 is suspected if hospitalisation is required. Your colleague, Minister De Backer, said on Tuesday that a doctor can decide for himself whether sampling is justified. I would like to hear from you whether this means that the test criteria have indeed been extended to any suspicious case. I also have a thought about the contact insulation. This is not being applied in the facts. A person living with the COVID-19 positive patient does not need to take special measures. He can just get out of the house and go to work. A care provider may also work, provided that he wears a surgical mask. Those care providers should also not be tested. In the context of limiting the spread of the virus and because people can be contagious without symptoms, I wonder if you think it might be useful to isolate roommates or ask them to wear a surgical mask as soon as they leave the house? In hospitals and outpatient practices, all non-essential concerns are also postponed in order to prevent the spread of the virus, but also to make the best use of its capacity. Is it being followed in this context to ensure that everyone abides by the rules? For treatment within the nomenclature, this will probably be easier than for treatment outside the nomenclature, but is this also taken into account? Is intervention also taking place when it appears that certain care providers do not comply with these rules? Does this also have consequences when it appears that certain care providers do not carry out non-essential interventions or consultations during this period? What are the consequences?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u8	Mrs Van Camp, there are 13 minutes left for the N-VA group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u9	Mr President, I certainly do not need the full speaking time allocated to me. Last week I devoted my speaking time entirely to the care sector, and I am doing so again today. Madam Secretary, thank you very much for coming to this meeting. Mr President, I would also like to thank you for the organisation of this sitting today. Madam Minister, in the Committee on the Interior, you have given very clear answers to my questions on asylum and migration. Even if I do not always agree with your answers, clear answers are needed to carry out our role as supervisory body. On the other hand, I felt that you did not provide all the answers last week in the Committee on Health. You didn't have that much time last week either. Perhaps today we will have more time to get answers to the pertinent questions we all have. As representatives of the people, we deserve answers, as we are paid to control the government, but of course the answers also benefit the people where these questions live. Madam Minister, I would therefore like to return to the working conditions of the white sector. These working conditions are substandard, which is all the more striking because of the corona crisis and is all the more poignant. You have certainly met some of the demand for rapid relief in this area. There's a bright spot on the property. For example, you said that EUR 1 billion was made available to healthcare institutions. Although I understand that these are provisional advances within the existing budget, no structural additional resources. Hopefully you will buy time with these advances, so that you can free up structural funds, but you have already allocated these advances. You also suspended the mandatory reading of the e-ID for home care. You also arranged for a full recognition of corona as an occupational disease, which you explained last week. You also announced a bonus for the care staff in the institutions and an increase in the fees for home care, which is really appreciated on the ground. Madam Minister, today I expect an answer to my questions to more details that I asked last week. You have made EUR 1 billion available to healthcare institutions. How do you ensure locks, so that an important part of them flows to the caregivers themselves? What distribution key is used for health care institutions? Is the bonus provided for healthcare providers included in the EUR 1 billion in advances or is an additional budget foreseen for this? How much is it exactly and who exactly is it intended for? Same for the fees of home care. Is it about nomenclature numbers or about a flat rate, as I have heard on the ground? Are these one-off matters, valid during the current corona period, or are there also structural improvements in the working conditions of our care staff? Finally, the material remains a pain point. Unfortunately, I still receive daily reports, and I believe many colleagues with me, that there is not enough protection material on the ground. Just yesterday, an important home nurse organisation informed me that she directly heard from the COVID line that the protective equipment has not yet arrived and that only surgical masks were previously provided. Too little in quantity, but as we all know, it is not enough to protect our health professionals in the front line. We are talking about our health care staff, which guarantees our health. I'm sorry, but I kind of feel like we sent them in the trenches with a toy rifle. That's really unheard of. In summary, when will the promised material be provided, and when will the promised funds be allocated? The quarantine has been in force for a month now. Our caregivers always give, but now all the more, the very best of themselves. To the people who are tired of sitting at home: remember that those people, the care workers, do not have that safe luxury. They are in front of us in the front line. They deserve not only our respect, but also concrete resources, support, protection equipment and concrete support measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u10	Madam Secretary, I have some questions for you about the medication. The Tropical Institute has started a study on the early use of chloroquine. I have referred to this a number of times in committee. One is investigating whether patients with symptoms early on with chloroquine may have a faster cure, on the one hand, but also a smaller spread of the virus, on the other hand. Should this study be evaluated positively, will you consider having chloroquine used by health care providers as a preventive measure? Then there is also the compassionate use program for remdesivir. How many patients are we talking about? How many patients is it available for? The same question applies to the study of leukine, which is tested by the UZ Gent. How many patients are involved? We also know that the virus works via the ACE2 receptors. In the Netherlands there is a study on this. Is that something that is also planned in our country? Finally, there is ivermectin, also a molecule being investigated abroad. Is it being investigated in our country, too? We have also referred to the studies on plasma from recovered patients, a type of auto-vaccination. How many patients are we talking about there? Are our universities involved in a study that runs into the genome of the virus, in other words how it is that this variant is now there and how that mutation originated? It is very important that we get an independent picture of how the virus works, so that we can treat it better. In veterinary medicine, auto-vaccination is used to reduce epidemics and reduce symptoms. I put a question to Minister De Backer for this, but his written reply showed that his adviser is not really aware of this. Autovaccination is used for both viruses and bacteria. There is also actually quite a lot of experience with coronaviruses and autovaccination. The only problem is that there is no legal basis for a humane application, but it can be created. Are you willing to start a study on this? You're working with the pharmaceutical sector for the PCR tests. Have you discussed in a consultation how vaccination tests could be carried out? The whole world is waiting for a vaccine, tests start in September. Will our country be given a differential role in this? There was also a bit of uncertainty in the discussion with Minister De Backer this week about the guidelines for the general practitioners. Can you tell us if the GP in patients he believes is relevant for testing them, can have these tests carried out at the patient's own expense at one of the labs that are no longer being used, but which have been validated? Can the doctor recommend the test himself? As far as the exit strategy is concerned, we will have to test for immunity. The demand for this will also be great for the citizens themselves. Will you issue guidelines for immunity tests or may citizens, if they so wish, have those tests carried out? Will you turn on the first line, the GP and the house pharmacist? That seems to me to be a very accessible circuit. Will you agree to that? I have another question that has been asked a few times. How come the government does validate the antigen test and hasn't validated or even banned the antibody test? Some reagents have even been seized. What is the reason for that? Then I have one more question about the patients. I understand from the hospitals that a lot of people who die are not in the intensive care department. Is that because of the DNR code? Is it true that in patients who are being admitted for COVID-19, there is a fairly large switch in the DNR code? There must, of course, always be consultation between the scientific team and the patient. Do you see that there are great differences, which ultimately means that these patients do not end up in IZ beds but rather receive comfort treatment? One more word about mental health. I also asked a question about this last time, but I did not get a real concrete answer at the time. What concrete steps have you taken? Are known patients with depression, for example, traced and monitored? There has been an extension for online psychological care. Is that used? There has also been an appeal to psychologists to participate even more in first-line psychology. Is that used? Are there any other psychologists writing into that system? Are you going to let more caregivers into the psychological aid? How are you going to deal with the potential huge burden on healthcare providers? Chronic patients should also be monitored. I asked you about that last week. Did you take concrete steps there? We know that the doctors are absolutely asking for the chronic patients to be able to go back to the general practitioner and be followed up. That is absolutely necessary for their health. How are you going to deal with this in concrete terms? I also have the same question with regard to preventive medicine. Certain specialists have called off patients, in accordance with the guidelines you have given that non-urgent medical duties should be postponed. However, I am now confronted with specialists who say it is very difficult to find a lab for a swab or to reserve a scanner for a preventive examination. How are you going to handle the medical exit?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u11	That's it for the N-VA? You have two minutes left. I hope the other speakers will follow your example.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u12	Mr President, Madam Minister, I will not be long. I will focus more on women and health issues, while my health colleagues will have a more holistic approach to the situation. From the very beginning of the confinement, I have expressed to you a first concern: to guarantee access to the IVG. Today, we are reassured on this point. It is known that the planning centres and some hospitals are doing a great job of continuing to guarantee access. For the time being, the returns from the field are good. What are you putting in place to really guarantee this access in the long term? To what extent do hospitals continue to practice GVI? In addition, the planning centres are really doing their utmost to continue to provide essential services to the population, despite the difficulties of containment rules and the lack of equipment. However, they sound alarm bells because they realize that they have 80% less attendance than their services. I will let you imagine the risks of postponing sexual and reproductive health care in the long term. Minister, the planning centres have certain demands. First of all, on the issue of contraceptives, they find it difficult to access them because of the obligation to have a prescription. We join them at their request. Could you consider lifting the requirement to hold a prescription to extend a contraceptive method and to obtain free emergency contraception? Could you allow the clinical examination that precedes the delivery of a first contraception via telemedicine? Could you promote financial access to contraception by extending the preferential reimbursement of contraceptives to all ages? It also appears that there is tension on the issue of the supply of drugs and equipment. Apparently, this morning at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Women's Rights, the comments were reassuring with regard to the issue of medicines. On the other hand, the shortage around condoms seems overwhelming. I would have liked to have some information on that. The protocols for hospital deliveries have been radically changed in the context of the fight against VOCID-19, which creates many difficulties for future mothers, including the inability to be delivered by their own gynaecologist or the very short presence in hospital. With debunking and increased testing, could you consider that pregnant women who are due to give birth and who are tested negative can give birth with their own gynecologist? Could you also consider that hospital stays are shortened only on a voluntary basis? Finally, the return of midwives to the field is a matter of great concern, given the lack of clarity in the information provided to them, as well as the lack of equipment. They feel delivered to themselves. Minister, could you consider prioritizing their access to protective equipment? In accordance with their request, could pregnant women be tested as a matter of priority? Could there be clear guidelines for their profession? In addition, it is my responsibility that pregnant women work when they are engaged in essential front-line occupations and do not do so on a voluntary basis. Do you confirm this information? Do you have any leads to try to strike a balance in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u13	Madam Secretary, thank you for coming to the committee on Friday. I have three questions. One question has already been touched by Mrs Van Camp, namely about the self-employed home nurses who would not be able to recover from the allowance for occupational disease if they were infected with COOVID-19. You replied in committee last week that the dossier was going in the right direction. Nevertheless, we were given some worrying reports on this matter. So I would like to hear from you once again that the matter is definitely in order at the moment. A second question concerns the general practitioners. Last week this was just reported when we held the committee meeting. So I'd like to come back to it. In the province of Limburg, a significantly higher number of general practitioners would be infected with COVID-19. There was no immediate explanation for that. Has Sciensano found time to check? Does this also mean that a greater number of protective materials could be made available to the general practitioners in Limburg, because they come into contact with more infections compared to the rest of the country? More generally, there are clear guidelines for the general practitioners. However, I hear in the field that there is still a very big difference in approach. Do you have any idea how the general guidelines are being followed? Are there any samples being taken? Is there a hotline where patients can report if something goes wrong? I hope that it is a few and that the other Members did not hear such stories. If the story that apparently infected patients end up in the same waiting room as the healthy patients is still real at the moment, I hope it is an exception. Another exception is, I hope, that control doctors, who are sent by employers to workers with clear COOVID-19 symptoms, will send them back to the workplace, while the general practitioner absolutely does not agree with that. I hope it's just a few of them. Have you heard such stories? Is there a hotline for this too, where such problems can be reported? After all, it would be criminal if patients with obvious COOVID-19 symptoms were to start working again at the moment. My final question concerns mental health care, and I would like to focus on care for those who take care of it. After all, we hear a lot of poignant stories from carers, who give the best of themselves every day. In the hospital of Hasselt they started a very nice project for this, the community support team. In it, all mental health care professionals in the hospital network work together to provide a network for health care professionals, taking care of caregivers who need a conversation after shift before they go home. That is a very good example, but I am concerned about the first line and the small hospitals that do not have a large network to fall back on. Madam Secretary, can you, from your powers, encourage a plan for caring for care? We must do everything we can to provide everyone with the necessary mental health care, especially the doctors and nursing staff who are constantly fighting against the virus and have to endure it for a very long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u14	Minister, my first question concerns patients in the mental health sector. To date, no equipment has been provided to psychiatric hospitals, in any case in Wallonia. No masks, no tests. FPS Public Health does not request any records of cases of VOCID-19 in psychiatric hospitals. They're completely out of the radar. The directions are distraught and sorry. They send their staff to the pipe breaker, unprotected, and grapple with help from there. It's really the world of troubleshooting. Staff go there because they are completely dedicated to patients. They're not third-rate patients. The mental health and disability sector also, by rebound, requires the same level of protection and care, and there is a real urgency for the federal government to respond to and assist in its lack of care. The equipment exists. Mr. De Backer repeated it on Wednesday again. There's masks, medicine. I don't understand, minister, if there are mask stocks, why is there a shortage of ground? Explain to me. It's stock management. It's in your hands. You can handle this. If there is no shortage of medicines, why do hospitals have to work with tight flows? Really, explain this to me, because I don't understand it. This concern is compounded by uncertainty. If these patients have severe forms of VOCID-19, they wonder, because of their severe pathology, whether they will be able to be hospitalized in intensive care. This uncertainty is frankly intolerable. She can't exist. I repeat, the mental health sector is crucial in the management of this crisis. There will be rebound effects. At this point, this is not even a question. It's really a request. I ask you to ensure that the federal government does everything possible to protect this sector. My second question concerns the convention with pharmaceutical laboratories following the intervention of Mr. Backer's last Wednesday. He stated that the tests carried out by the Pharma, Biotech and Universities consortium would not be the subject of a conventional reimbursement by INAMI, but were covered by another convention. We would therefore like to have full transparency on this other convention. Which convention is this? What is the specific purpose of this Convention? Will the original reimbursement system for PCR tests, which was performed by clinical laboratories, still apply? Indeed, in the world of troubleshooting, psychiatric hospitals, for example, can use these PCR tests to test their patients. If they do not have access to these pharmaceutical laboratories, it will be even more complicated. Another question concerns chronic patients. I know you met them last week, but they're still worried. They remain concerned about the lack of management of their pathologies in the current context of containment, because the postponement of care for these patients is a reality. These include, for example, follow-up for people transplanted from the lung, who are particularly fragile, care for people in dialysis, and kine sessions for patients with Parkinson's disease. The lack of perspective for the continuation of confinement translates into stress and psychological suffering for these people, which reinforces existing pathologies and physical pain. These people require regular care and must have secure access to care. The lack of protection is seen for them as an infringement of their dignity and fundamental rights. Minister, what measures have you set aside for these chronic patients in your future containment and/or definity extension strategies to avoid irreversible health damage? I have two more specific questions. They relate to the reimbursement of serological tests. The Saint-Luc University Clinic Laboratory has developed a serological automate test. It allows you to get a result in 40 minutes. The advantage is that it also specifies the level of antibodies. Minister, when will the AFMPS recognise this test in Belgium? When can you make the Royal Order and thus allow its refund? I could ask you the same question about Zentech, like last week. I come to a question I asked you last week about the White Blouse Fund. 400 million are planned. Minister, my question is very simple: is your office drafting the royal decrees? If so, when will they be ready? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u15	I thank the Ecolo-Groen Group for not using all its time. I feel like we'll need it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u16	Mr President, it is an exercise to abbreviate the many questions we wanted to ask. Minister, thank you for being available this afternoon. I would like to return to the issue of hospitals and budgets, which we have not yet addressed. These hospitals are on the front line in the treatment of patients affected by coronavirus. Since mid-March, they have been forced to postpone all their non-emergency activities and to implement exceptional means to deal with this crisis. Undoubtedly, this will have an impact on their budgets. I've already asked you about this, but I'll come back. Could you make it clear to me today whether, as part of the cash advance that you have announced to us and which will be granted to hospitals, they can be reassured as to the financing of the wage cost of their staff, by maintaining a maximum capacity for intervention and without being forced to resort to temporary unemployment? In terms of funding, what fate will be reserved for hospital institutions which now use temporary unemployment for their staff? How will this situation be assessed? These hospitals face a lot of difficulties, not least in the provision of equipment but also in the provision of medicines. We talked about it yesterday on topical issues in plenary. We talked about curares, morphine, sedatives that are threatened with shortage. Some hospitals say they only have 48 hours of stock. And under these conditions, the services are forced to use alternative drugs, some of which explain that they are inadequate or that there is a need to review the way in which they are administered, which complicates the work of the health care teams. Given the conditions under which our hospitals are subjected to today, it seems essential that the Federal Medicines Agency be able to provide answers much more quickly on the issue of available stocks and that deliveries be made more quickly at the same time. We know that on average, a patient will need 21 days if he's on a ventilator. It is therefore essential to give a vision which also takes place on a 21-day deadline, so that hospitals can organise themselves with regard to available stocks. Otherwise, Dr. Devos, President of the ABSyM, who is fearful of selection and sorting, will come to his speech, which would be totally unacceptable. In this regard, Minister, I reiterate my request to clarify the matter. Unia has been extremely clear: people with disabilities and the elderly have the right to be cared for. Caregiver teams must decide on the basis of medical criteria and not on other criteria which are protected in terms of discrimination. I would also like to go back to the polemic related to hydroxychloroquine that has already been discussed. It has been shown that hydroxychloroquine has anti-inflammatory action and reduces the production of viruses. However, its use is controversial. Minister, are the recommendations in hospitals in Belgium to pre-empt this treatment in the hope that it will produce effects? What is the status of the Discovery study that started in Europe with clinical trials to prove or not the effectiveness of four treatments, including chloroquine, out of nearly 3,000 patients, including a hundred in three weeks in Erasmus? Can you tell us about it? What about the Solidarity study launched by WHO, which is related to hundreds of patients? I briefly addressed the care of people with disabilities. Do you not consider it necessary to clarify the recommendations to hospitals? It comes to my mind that the SPF Santé publique would have, through you, sought the opinion of the Ethics Board of the Belgian Intensive Medical Society. Is that correct? Should this opinion not be clarified? I'm going to the screening tests, which I've already asked you about. At this stage, more than 35,000 cases of VOCID-19 – 60% of them in Flanders – have been confirmed. On the other hand, the number of deaths is falling drastically – up to 50% in Flanders. By means of a system of communicating vessels, deaths are proportionally higher in Wallonia and Brussels. In order to better analyse this situation, minister, could you give us an overview of the tests carried out to date in the various regions of the country? Why are these data not included in daily epidemiological reports, even though they are essential for a concerted, coherent and controlled deconfinity? As for serological tests, at the beginning of the month, your colleague Philippe De Backer described them as "Chinese brol". On April 14, Emmanuel André warned that time would be needed to choose the best. The next day, your colleague told us that some of these tests were "of insufficient quality", without telling us whether any of them could have been validated. Yesterday, the press informed us that the tests of the Belgian company ZenTech had been carried out by the Federal Medicines Agency and that they were in production. (...) If so, when? How much? Has a contract been concluded for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u17	Mrs Tillieux, please excuse me, but I did not hear everything you said. The image is stopped and the sound is not transmitted well. Could you take it back?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u18	Mrs Tillieux, please repeat your last question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u19	As for serological tests, Emmanuel André said it would take time for it to improve and Minister De Backer said the quality was not satisfactory. Yesterday, it was reported in the press that the tests of the Belgian company ZenTech had been validated by the Federal Agency and that they were in production. Will these tests be deployed in Belgium? If so, when and for how many of them? Was there a contract with the company? With respect to the screening criteria, Minister De Backer broadly explained that he wanted to expand these criteria and that he would take on his responsibilities. At the Sciensano site, these criteria have not been clearly and formally expanded. What about it? Will this site be updated? If these criteria have not been expanded, why? I wish to return to the issue of contraception. I had asked you about access to contraception at a time when consultations are less, especially in gynaecology. There are difficulties in accessing the contraceptive pill. Madam Minister, would it be possible for the country to take a measure similar to that taken in Flanders to facilitate access to contraception during this period of confinement? This would allow pharmacies to dispense contraceptives without a prescription, based on the latest prescription in the pharmacy. Finally, with regard to voluntary termination of pregnancy, our health care must remain accessible to all at every moment. This applies to those affected by VOCID-19, but also to all patients requiring urgent care, chronic patients, persons seeking palliative care or those seeking access to euthanasia, and women seeking abortion. The family planning centers shouted an alarm this morning. Although the situation is not catastrophic, there is a clear decrease in consultations, which raises fears of a difficult future and a complicated awakening at the end of the containment period. In any case, today I read a letter from the Risk Management Group, the SPF Santé, the INAMI and the Federal Medicines Agency which seemed to be concerned that urgent care would not be carried out by some hospitals, reminding them of the legal tasks of the chief doctors. Madam Minister, in no way can the situation offer the opportunity for ideological manoeuvres, under the pretext of the suspension of non-emergency medical operations, to obstruct the right to abortion, especially since the maximum period allowed is still 12 weeks. Could you tell us whether clear recommendations have been made to extra-hospital or hospital facilities in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u20	Madam Minister, I will start my remarks with these famous masks that are sorely missing and return for a few moments to the famous three million masks that arrived in Liège several days ago, which were considered unusable. This is obviously not the first order that is a problem. We don't count aborted orders anymore, canceled for obscure reasons, and I'm going through with them. It was understood that these three million masks were sloppy. I asked Mr. From Backer without receiving an answer as to whether these masks could be used in another sector, obviously not in the hospital sector but perhaps in the distribution sector. If I send you such a request, it is that a favourable wind has sent me a circular sent by the AFMPS and a Belgian directive for the reuse of surgical masks, FFP2 and FFP3 in the context of the VOCID-19 epidemic. I've been arrested by hospital wards. One director told me, reading the circular: "Because of the shortage of personal protective equipment for health care workers (including these three million masks), it is allowed for each hospital to retain this single-use equipment. The infectious and efficacy risk is possible, but not safe. Moreover, the institutions remain fully responsible." Madam Minister, I thought I fell off my chair when I saw this circular. This, in my opinion, poses a real problem in the field of forensics. I'd really like to hear from you about this circular that came to the hospitals. Are hospitals now being asked to re-use masks that may be recalved, retraced, left-over, while at the same time specifying that it is at their own risk? In any case, it seems to me very dangerous, Madam Minister. Another thing is that I go back to the controversy over the choice of pharmaceutical laboratories and the slap that the government has inflicted on licensed laboratories. First of all, I would like to know what you are responding to these licensed clinical biology laboratories. Minister De Backer said he could give permission for analyses to arrive at a capacity of 20 to 30,000 tests with a guarantee of reagent supply. Can you tell us who makes up this consortium today? Who will be responsible for supplying the reagents? What about today's testing analysis capabilities at the consortium level? Having not had a clear answer on 15 April, I would like you to tell me who will be responsible for the conduct and analysis of serological tests in the future, and more specifically in the context of progressive deconfinination. Sub-question: Why not ensure the supply of reagents and allow all laboratories, including approved laboratories, to complete the supply? We also heard from Professor Devos, Minister. He expressed concern about the shortage of certain types of hospital drugs. In particular, he is surprised that AFMPS delivers animal anesthetics for patients with VOCID-19. To work in resuscitation, we know that staff need four product families: sedatives, painkillers, curares and antibiotics. According to Professor Devos, the shortage that worries the most is that of sedatives, especially that of Propofol. However, AFMPS had explained to hospitals that it would soon deliver Propofol for dogs and cats. Minister, can you also make all the transparency on this story and tell us what is happening? In the coming days, Belgian hospitals will start clinical trials of transferring blood plasma from people cured of VOCID-19 to infected patients. In Belgium, a protocol is to be put in place in the coming days. Internationally, several countries, including France and the United States, have started clinical trials to test this therapeutic approach. Minister, what can you tell me about the protocol that has been put in place? How will the cured donors be selected? How will infected patients be selected? When can these tests begin? Finally, the Minister, the Association Pharmaceutique Belge (APB) recently declared that it was able to make itself available to the authorities to assist in screening. As the PDB points out, there are currently 5000 clinics throughout the country, which, among other things, make screening more accessible. Is it envisaged, Madam Minister, that pharmacists should be allowed to take part in the screening, more specifically if this screening was to be extended or even generalized, particularly in the context of deconfining? Have you consulted with the various actors in the field? I am already sorry about the translation service.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u21	Mr Rigot, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u22	Mr President, I would just like to speak on the procedure. You give me 20 minutes to answer. My colleague Mr. De Backer came to committee for four hours on Wednesday. He brought a lot of answers. I've read about it. Now, I already have about ten questions to which Mr. Backer. Do you think my answers will be different? I will simply refer to Mr. Backer. Otherwise, it's no use. I am here to answer your questions, but if the answers have already been given, I will not use my speaking time to repeat them. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u23	Madam Minister, we take note of that. Indeed, a few questions were asked of you while they were within the jurisdiction of Minister M. De Backer, who answered it on Wednesday. If you have nothing to add to these answers, it's like that! Mr. Rigot, you have almost three minutes left.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u24	Mr President, Madam Minister, I agree with you. The aim is not to answer the same questions that have already been asked to Mr. De Backer, at least if he answered. In this case, I come back with a question which I asked him this Wednesday and to which he did not answer. So, regarding the wearing of the mask, do you continue to think that the mask has no scientific interest while the position of the experts on this subject has changed, evolved? Should we, or should we not, wear a mask today, on authorized trips? What do you think of the initiative taken by some municipalities to impose the wearing of the mask? In view of the recommendations that were made for wearing the mask during the debunking, are the authorities ready to provide these masks to all citizens? Are they ready to take care of them, from the moment they constitute protection? There will be a need for clear recommendations in this regard. Are you considering giving them? For my group, these masks, like all other means necessary for protection, including hydro-alcoholic gel, must be regarded as essential goods. We therefore believe that VAT should be reduced from 21 % to 6 %? What do you think about this? This is how I get to the nursing staff who, as we all know, are doing an exceptional job. They are heroes, even superheroes, but that does not prevent them from being exhausted physically and mentally. We must not forget, therefore, that they need to be supported. Since the beginning of the crisis, healthcare professionals have stressed the need to anticipate the rapid care of healthcare workers. Some hospitals have organized it, but do you plan to generalize accompaniment to these professionals to avoid burn-out and post-traumatic stress? Many citizens also face terrible situations and significant stress to which they were not prepared. What are you thinking about them? Finally, we talked about the alternative structures last week in plenary, and we are still talking about them today. Whether you like it or not, the situation in nursing homes is terrible and dramatic. It must be the subject of our concern. In addition to the problem of equipment and the expansion of screening, it is essential to provide optimal care for seniors and patients leaving the hospital who are unable to return to their home or the nursing home where they reside, due to the risk of contamination. More and more actors suggest keeping these patients in the hospital. What do you think? What is your position on setting up such alternative structures in our hospitals? Is this not an answer to the rest and care homes that are in a complicated situation? I have mentioned a number of advantages to the establishment of these structures, including the possibility of benefiting staff awaiting return to work or technical unemployment, efficient infrastructure and ensuring the protection of all. What are the obstacles to this option of alternative structures? Have there been any consultations with hospital federations in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u25	The Flemish People's Party now has the floor for a maximum of 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u26	Madam Minister, my first series of questions concerns vaccines and antivirals that are suspected, or which are even shown by current research, that they are useful in the fight against COVID-19. I am thinking of medicines for malaria, ebola, HIV and tuberculosis. They are all medicines whose impact is known. We know what side effects they have and how much they cost, but they may not have been sufficiently tested for their action against the coronavirus. Madam Secretary, which of these well-known and often cheap means are already being used against the coronavirus? Which of these are produced in our country? What substances are eligible for further clinical trials? Much scientific work has shown that chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine are active against COVID-19. Minister De Backer said on Wednesday that they are now being used in hospitals. According to scientists, they would be better used at an earlier stage because they effectively give the patient more comfort and even heal. Will you make chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine available to the general practitioners at the triage centres so that Corona patients can be treated with these medicines at an early stage? As far as the masks are concerned, I only have one clear question. I hope that we will finally get a clear answer, Madam Minister. Is it true that the strategic stock of mouth masks was destroyed because the storage facility would be used to accommodate asylum seekers? Who's responsible for that? Furthermore, the VBS calls for a federal fund to be set up by analogy with the Consortium 12-12 for international disasters to raise tax-deductible funds for health care and medical equipment. This would, among other things, prevent the loss of much-needed funds for medical equipment in disparate or inexpensive initiatives. How do you see such a federal fund? Do you see anything in this? If so, when will you take the necessary initiatives? If not, why not and what alternative do you have? Let's hope this corona time is over as soon as possible. I think it's a little farther than our noses long. If this is finally over and you will re-establish a strategic stock, what will be in it? I am thinking, of course, of mouth masks that cannot lapse, vaccines and virus inhibitors and breathing equipment. Will they be stored using the FIFO system so that the expiry date is not exceeded? Will the federal emergency plan be adapted and implemented? Will a working group be set up in which today's heroes, who can count on applause every day, will be involved in the consultations for the implementation of the federal emergency plan? Is there a map of the measures taken and their results being kept up to date? I would like to repeat a question which I have already asked Minister De Backer, but which I have not received an answer to. More tests are now being carried out, especially in the residential care centers. According to rumors I hear, however, there is no testing in a particular sector, namely the special pathologies of psychogeriatry, although often there is a similar climate there as in residential care centres. They often also work together or even sit in the same buildings. How many tests have already been carried out in psychogeriatry? What was the result of that? Is the number of tests extended here too? How many corona patients and how many coronados have already been reported here?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u27	Madam Minister, the Royal Decree of 17 March introduced a six-month ban on the use of the rapid self-tests. A few weeks later, websites already appeared to circumvent this. After payment of around 300 euros, customers receive a so-called swabkit, with which they have to work themselves. The swab must be sent to the supplier and the customers receive the results within 48 hours by telephone. Madam Secretary, is this online offer covered by the rapid self-tests as described in the Royal Decree? If so, what initiatives will you take in this respect? If that is not the case, will the authenticity of those tests be verified? How does that happen? One of the providers of these kits works together with the German Synlab, which also has a number of laboratories in our country, and also sells PCR tests. Is the government working with Synlab? To what extent do such practices jeopardise government testing capacity? I realize that my next question concerns an intention, but I still want to ask them. What are your views on such providers? Doesn't this threaten two-speed care, testing for who it can afford, while others have to wait for the government to be tested? My second question is based on the statement by a number of people from the Chinese community, who, as they say, represent a lot of others, that the prevention and treatment of COVID-19 in the Chinese community, as in the Chinese mother country, is based on a combination of traditional Chinese and Western medicine. With that in mind, I would like to ask you if you are willing to allow a home test, whether or not under certain conditions? I am thinking, for example, of a maximum margin of error or the use of care providers. What are your arguments for this? Are you prepared to allow traditional Chinese medicines for prevention and treatment, whether under certain conditions or not? What are your arguments for this? Mr President, I think we have been able to save some time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u28	Indeed, Mr Creyelman. You could have spoken for four more minutes. Very well, I appreciate that everyone is using a little less speaking time than they are.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u29	Mr President, I will speak first for the MR. Then it will be the turn of Magali Dock and Michel De Maegd.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u30	I would remind you and the secretariat that you have a total of 12 minutes for your statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u31	Minister, I have seven questions for you. These include access to medicines, health care personnel, clinical studies, the risk of contagion, and the impact of containment and quarantine. For some time now, we've been asking you about the risks of drug shortages, mainly for hospital care. This Wednesday, Minister De Backer reiterated that there is no shortage, which you confirmed yesterday. However, AFMPS seems to deliver drugs to hospitals and oblige doctors to sign landfills for the use of alternative medicines, sometimes veterinary and without authorisation, within inadequate delivery times. I don't hear a single expert, a single professional say we have the drugs normally. On the other hand, they are unanimous in saying that there is a lack of drugs and/or information on stocks. Minister De Backer said, however, that the procedure for supplying hospitals would be optimized. Has the 48-hour procedure, which is inadequate for the administration of medical treatment that lasts at least 20 days, been changed? It is important to clarify this situation, which seems very different between our debates and the evidence on the ground. On the state of health of the health care staff, you indicated that a prevalence study will be in place. What is its framework, planning and time frame for achieving results? The municipalities have been asked for intermediate patient care facilities. What is the precise purpose of this exceptional arrangement and what is the state of play? You also indicated last week that the Centre of Expertise is following several clinical studies on treatments for VOCID-19. What is the status of defined protocols and recruitment? Are these studies targeted at Phases 1 and 2, healthy volunteers and also patients? What are the deadlines for these protocols? Have any administrative support or public accelerated procedures been set up for vaccine testing to facilitate or support research departments within our Belgian companies? In addition, containment and quarantine would have an impact on a decrease in the treatment of patients with chronic diseases with a decrease in drug use. General practitioners and pharmacists seem to confirm this finding and the risk of delayed impact on the health of these patients. Mental health is affected by the living conditions of confinement. In fact, we will hear the sector in the near future. What steps are already being taken to meet the anticipated needs at this level? What additional means are decided to support mental health professionals? Finally, as part of the gradual de-confinition, will all citizens have been tested in advance? How long is the disease, how long is the incubation and contagion time? Are serological tests systematically planned for people who have been affected? Depending on what are the uniform guidelines issued to general practitioners?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u32	Mr President, Minister, as we all know, all available resources are needed in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. Medicines take a central place. Guaranteeing the availability of medicines is one of the many priorities of the government, and we can only welcome that. However, the risk of a possible shortage of medicines causes a lot of unrest and stress, especially in our hospitals. In the national edition of La Libre Belgique on 7 April, the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products announced that the path of veterinary medicines was being studied by its experts. AFMPS also indicated that a stock of Proposure had already been created and that it would have been distributed last week to some hospital pharmacies. According to her, this medication could be used as an alternative if the usual sedatives were missing. Madam Secretary, can you explain the current situation? Is it true that there may be a shortage? Do you confirm the announcement of the FAGG? Could the use of veterinary medicinal products in humans be a solution to this crisis if there is a shortage of human medicines? What measures has the FAGG taken with regard to the use of veterinary medicinal products in humans? For several weeks, the attention of the whole world has focused on the corona crisis. Our country is no exception, but there are still other conditions that require regular medical attention. Just think asthma, HIV, diabetes and cancer. Concrete examples of pathologies not managed or not regularly followed, given their chronic nature or danger, may pose a high health risk to the patient. Some health professionals are already announcing collateral victims or a second wave of patients. Madam Secretary, can you give us an update on these patients? What measures have been taken to ensure that patients with chronic diseases also receive the medical care they need during the crisis? If chronic patients are not monitored, what impact would this have on health care?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u33	Mrs Dock, if we had been in the hall, I would have asked for applause for your bilingual intervention. I congratulate you, although it was a little surprising at first.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u34	Mr. President, Minister, the government has indicated its willingness to conduct mass screening. Of course it's a good thing. But on the ground, several actors are asking questions. For the time being, hospitals do not have the finances to pay for these tests, and specifically the tests on in-patient patients who do not have the symptoms of VOCID-19. For example, pregnant women arriving in hospital to give birth or patients hospitalized for other conditions and who, without symptoms of VOCID-19, could introduce the virus into the various services of the hospital. At present, INAMI does not reimburse these tests and does not allow these hospitals to charge patients for them. Without clear funding, hospitals will not be able to afford to take charge of these tests and thus carry them out, which is crucial. Minister, my question is simple: how is it planned to fund these tests? Who will pay the bill? INAMI? The patient being tested? Have any decisions been taken on this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u35	We now come to the CD&V Group, which has six minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u36	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my first question concerns the pressure on healthcare staff. They take care of us, but who takes care of them? Over the past few weeks, there have been several surveys of care staff, care professionals and nurses. In the survey of Zorg-Saam, an initiative of Zorgnet-Icuro, 62 % of nurses indicate that they are under pressure. One in three is scared and half is tired. It is painful to note that those who are holding us straight now are about to fall down themselves. At the moment we see a lot of good initiatives, in different hospitals, such as the installation of quiet spaces and the organisation of feedback moments at the end of the working day. Today, however, there is no structural psychological support for all hospitals. The same applies to residential care centres. From the survey of the Belgian Federation of Healthcare Professionals we learn that 76 % did not yet enjoy any hospital support, while 67 % did not yet receive any training on corona protection measures. I was a little surprised at those results, because I find it difficult to imagine that almost two out of three in the middle of the greatest health crisis of the century, did not receive any information on how to best protect themselves. What was the outcome of the consultations at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on the problem? When will the concrete plan under the direction of Health be rolled out to coordinate hospital support for residential care centres, through the existing external liaison teams, who, while only working for the approved RVT beds? Will the plan also be extended to residential care centres without RVT beds? How will you provide staff from the hospitals without compromising hospital capacity? How do you provide the necessary psychological support for our care staff? Can the coronasupport teams be systematically rolled out across all hospitals to assist the staff on the ground psychologically? Is there a strategic plan to deal with the staff drop-out? What are the main measures to prevent staff shortages? You spoke yesterday in plenary about the financing of hospitals. You clearly state that you want to make an effort. You have already announced EUR 1 billion in advance, which is a good thing. You also say you want to see how we can provide further support to hospitals next week. What about the incentives that would be provided through the Health Care Staff Fund? Have any further steps been taken in this regard, or is there any indication of how they will be used today? My next series of questions concerns the psychological complaints in the emergency departments, about which several media reports. On the one hand, there is an increase in the number of patients with mental symptoms such as anxiety attacks and depression. On the other hand, it is also seen that psychiatric patients no longer find their way to emergency care. People are concerned about the consequences of the corona crisis on mental health. The fact that psychiatric patients do not find their way to psychological support can be problematic for the future. Are you planning a government campaign to encourage patients and those who are not in treatment for the time being to contact a psychologist or a psychiatrist? I think that is absolutely crucial so that post corona is not confronted with an influx. Furthermore, with regard to the reimbursement of consultations with the psychologist, I welcome the extension of the reimbursement to cover 18-year-olds and 65-plussers. However, there are still thresholds in the system. Today there are only 500 contracted psychologists out of the 15,000 psychologists. This means an insufficient capacity to cope with this. Have you discussed this with the Association of Psychologists? It is very clear that the prescription is often a threshold for a patient to go to a psychologist. The four sessions are often also limited. How do you evaluate the system that has been in place for a year? How can we improve it, especially in current corona times? Madam Minister, the last question, which has not yet been addressed, is about international solidarity, which is crucial in times of crisis. I heard during Macron's speech that both Germany, Luxembourg, Austria and Switzerland helped Italian and French patients, for example. For Belgium, too, a symbolic intake of patients must be clearly feasible. Such gestures are very important and are remembered for a long time. Whoever gives gets back eventually. Why doesn't our country record patients from abroad, although there is some capacity? This could be an important signal in the context of international solidarity. I hope to be able to give the floor to my colleague, Mr Nawal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u37	There's only ten seconds left. We'll be a little bit wider. We can understand the many questions, but please be brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u38	Mr President, Minister, I will be very brief. After all, I have heard that many other Members have asked questions which I also had on the agenda. My questions are mainly about exit lockdown and the patients who are currently not receiving the care that was normally planned. At the previous committee meeting, I highlighted the situation of patients with strokes and infarcts. In the meantime, certain investigations are also being postponed. We are now four weeks later, and it is becoming increasingly urgent to offer these patients the necessary care. I am also concerned about the fact that general practitioners can decide for themselves whether or not to carry out tests, as Minister De Backer said at the previous committee meeting. At hospital level, we already see a lot of competition. Whether tests are carried out should not depend on the network. I would also like a little more information on the reimbursement of the tests. Mr President, I have made it very brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u39	Thank you. That was fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u40	Madam Minister, yesterday in plenary the results of the meeting of the National Security Council were discussed in detail, but you have not yet replied. I'd like to talk to you about that. Visits would be allowed in the residential care centres, but after that it appeared that there was absolutely no consultation with the people and staff of the sector itself. You didn't seem to have organized or held that consultation yourself either. You said you assumed someone would. What do you think of that? Are you sure you're not in contact with the people on the premises? In the meantime, we know that the coronavirus epidemic is mainly a problem in residential care centres. You are Minister of Health and responsible for the whole country. Our country has 1,503 residential care centers. How many of these are in a problematic situation? Can you give me a picture of that? In how many residential care centres is the situation under control? A first batch of tests arrived last week. Some of these tests have already been carried out, but in the field the tests have caused many problems in terms of both implementation and logistics. The tests weren't easy. There was a lack of manuals, training and staff. There's a second batch of tests coming up right now. How will its implementation be organised in practice? Have you ensured that it will now be better and smoother? Is testing also provided for psychiatric institutions, prisons and institutions for disabled persons? We know that there is also a great demand for tests in these institutions, but the current limitation to five tests really causes problems on the ground. Overall, I think testing is important to know who's infected or not. I would like to hear the vision within which the tests are framed for you. Will you accompany that process, too? After all, once we have tested, decisions must also be made. Will tests be used preventively? What is the specific situation with regard to hospital assistance to residential care centres, if assistance is needed? Are hospitals already taking more patients from residential care centres in cases where residential care centres are no longer able to cope and given the fact that hospitals usually have more room? Are there any specific link-up structures being set up? My second part of the question is about the test capacity. Minister De Backer stated that from 1 April 10,000 tests per day could be carried out, and a few days ago he even said that there are 20,000 to 30,000 tests per day possible. On the ground, again today, we see that only 5,000 to 6,000 tests per day are carried out. That's a real problem. With regard to the tests, I would also like to discuss the criteria for reimbursement, which is also a major problem. Minister De Backer said he'd change the criteria. Since I'm a GP, I could see that this morning. The only change to the application forms is that the caregiver can now also be tested if he does not have a fever. However, the general practitioner is still unable to take a test even if the general practitioner wants to check whether the patient is infected or not. On the ground, this is really a big problem, as general practitioners need to know whether or not the patient has the corona virus and whether or not it is contagious. If necessary, we can advise the patient correctly, for example on the possible exit from the home or the resumption of work. If it is indeed corona, we can provide better follow-up, which is also very important. Let me briefly refer to the billion euro, which several colleagues have already mentioned. For the time being, it is true that EUR 1 billion is foreseen, but we know that this is not enough. Could you give me some more information about that? We applaud every evening for the caregivers, the people in the hospitals in the front line. However, the people who are active on the ground every day will applaud us only if we make the right decisions, in particular that this money really ends up with the caregivers at the beds of the sick. I have also been told that there is a KB in the making, allowing medical staff to be requisitioned for hospitals. Is this KB being worked out in conjunction with the field, with the trade unions? Or are you again making the same mistake as happened at the residential care centers and announcing the possible visit? This is very delicate. This is particularly problematic in my view if people who are ill were to be brought up. My final question concerns chronic care, both by general practitioners and by hospitals. We need to be able to take care of our patients and do their delayed surgeries. What about that? Was a plan drawn up for that? How is it balanced with the help to the housing centres that are to come from the hospitals and which are very important? What about the protective equipment? After all, the general practitioners have still not received enough protective equipment. I have not been able to ask a number of questions, but they can be answered in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u41	Mr President, it is clear to me too that it is not obvious to have a proper topical debate on this issue. Wednesday's working method was not optimal, but that also applies to what we are doing now. We have been asking questions for an hour and a half and the Minister will have 20 minutes to answer all these questions. As she has just pointed out, it is likely that after that it will be critical that it has not answered all the questions. However, it cannot be said that the Minister is not accountable to Parliament because it is now the third day in a row that we have a topical debate on COOVID-19, with hundreds of questions. So she's doing a lot of work. I have heard from colleagues from the Flemish Parliament that the actua debate was held there only during the plenary session and that this week's committee meetings were therefore deleted. Mr President, at the beginning of this sitting you spoke of a press release which you would have sent on behalf of this committee. I would like to stress that this certainly did not happen in my name. Madam Minister, I would like to address three issues, firstly, the mortality rate, secondly, the support of residential care centres and other health care institutions, and thirdly, the increase in the number of people with mental problems who find themselves in a hurry. We receive daily an overview of the number of hospital admissions, the number of admissions to intensive care and the number of deaths. There is certainly something to say about reporting the number of deaths, because we are not doing very well here compared to other countries. Yesterday, however, I heard that our virologists do not think it is so important to compare it with other countries, they think it is much more important to get the best possible view of the situation. Of course, I agree with that last point: we need to get as accurate a picture as possible of the situation as possible, but I do wonder whether it is the right choice to opt for an overestimate and count all probable deaths as a result of COOVID-19 and, I am told, even almost all deaths in residential care centres. The fact that we have such high figures scares a lot of people and I fear that when other countries will have to decide on, for example, the opening up of borders, which could be detrimental to our country. As I said earlier, it is now clear that many deaths of elderly people are being assigned to corona, which may not be the case. Meanwhile, I have seen a clear distinction in daily reporting between confirmed corona patients and deaths of people suspected of being infected with COVID-19. That's a good move. In addition, we see that the Netherlands also has lower mortality rates than our country, but that it may be necessary to record twice as many deaths due to corona when selling the listed excess mortality rates. It is therefore also more useful to compare the deaths recorded today in our country with the number of deaths recorded during the same period during previous years. I have already read a number of figures on this this morning, so I suspect that this approach is now being applied in our country too. However, I would like confirmation of that. A few weeks ago, we saw a rise in mortality due to a delay in the treatment of Flemish mortality rates, but I read this week in the Sciensano report that there would still be no death data at the moment and that there would be an underestimate of the number of deaths, especially in Wallonia, in residential care centres, mainly due to technical problems in the reporting system. Do you have any idea of the extent of this delay, Madam Minister, and of when we can expect the full figures from Wallonia? In any case, it is quite clear that the pandemic is taking place today mainly in residential care centres where many residents and staff appear to be infected with COOVID-19. The Communities have requested assistance from people from hospitals. Today, some people working in the care sector would be temporarily unemployed because no intervention is currently taking place in the departments where they are employed. So there is probably some room, but I was wondering if there were any clear agreements with the Communities on helping hospitals with residential care centres. A similar theme is home care assistance. Is there any support from home care? Do the home nurses have room for that? They too are likely to be confronted with the care of corona patients at home. Are there any other facilities for them? I am thinking, for example, of people with disabilities who may need additional support. Is assistance from hospitals and home care possible for them? Or is this question not currently being asked by the institutions? The last point concerns the psychological problems. A great deal of action is being taken to increase the number of people with mental problems in the immediate future. At Flemish level, resources are being used for various aid lines, where people who have difficulty can go. The reimbursement of a consultation by a clinical psychologist or orthopedagogue is now also possible for online consultations and for all age groups. I think this is also a good initiative. In Flanders, too, they are now putting maximum effort on online psychological assistance. Will mobile mental health care be maintained there as well? Are the psychologists going to stay at home with people? Do you have the impression that people will find their way to this kind of aid? Or is this not the most appropriate aid for the group which is now rising to the emergency? What is the profile of people with mental health problems who end up in emergency services or hospitals? How does the online assistance provided by clinical psychologists and orthopedagogics, which you have made possible for all age groups? Is there a lot of use of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u42	Mr President, Minister, last week we were told that you set up a task force to make a number of recommendations on the use and wearing of mouth masks, both for health professionals and for individuals. I think this is a good thing because there is some confusion about the usefulness of mouth masks for individuals because of a number of contradictory statements by scientists, but also by a number of foreign examples that are not all similar. Many health authorities also suffer from shortages, while other municipalities distribute masks on the streets. I would like to hear from you whether this means that you will reconsider the recommendations of the World Health Organisation, that you will not necessarily go along with them anymore. By what time will we receive these recommendations? In what way does that go with the exit strategy? Of course, everyone is interested in that exit strategy. Keeps a lot of people busy. I would like to ask the following question. There is an accordion strategy whereby it is first relaxed and then re-enforced. Is that a piste that's still under consideration? I can imagine that this would put enormous psychological pressure on our society. The last thing I want to say is that there are still a lot of institutions responsible for caring for people who are suffering from a shortage or even a lack of protective material. I am thinking not only of retirement homes, but also of institutions for people with disabilities, psychiatric institutions and youth institutions. I think the most important thing is to put the priority there. Madam Minister, my second question concerns something completely different, something that has just been mentioned. The government has taken a decision on the recovery of health personnel who have not yet been deployed to combat the crisis and could, for example, be deployed in residential care centres. If I am right, we are still waiting for the Council of State to approve this. However, we regularly see calls being made, calls being made to the alarm bell. There is, after all, a lack of adequate training and additional hands in residential care centres. Would you be better off with that? How many people would you claim? Does it apply only to places of rest or also to psychiatric centres or centres for persons with disabilities? Which groups of care providers are they talking about? Who can take the initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u43	Mr President, Minister, I have two clusters of questions. The first cluster is about delay of care and rising costs for non-corona patients. The second cluster concerns psychological and psychological care, which has already been mentioned. I begin with the postponement of urgent care and chronic care for non-corona patients, the so-called collateral damage. I will not repeat the examples of my fellow Members. The summit of our health organisations recently drew up a new directive on this delayed urgent care, calling for this urgent care to be able to avoid collateral damage. That's important. This new directive, which was made public today, complements the directive of 14 March on postponement. This new directive states that it has been established that there is a different application on the ground. Madam Secretary, what are the different applications on the ground? What care is or is not provided? What are the conditions involved? What effect does this have on patients and/or hospitals? A second component is the rising costs due to the corona crisis for non-corona patients. I shall give two examples of this. A first example is about a patient who has to follow antibiotic therapy via baxter, so on a frequent basis. In the past, the patient had to go to the hospital for this, but now the treatment is provided at home. The hospital day intake resulted in a low patient bill, while the patient is now faced with a high invoice due to the home treatment of the antibiotic therapy with baxter. How can you fix that? Will this be charged? A second example is a dialysis patient who used to go to the hospital three times a week, but now, for hygienic reasons, needs to be taken to the hospital with an ambulance COVID-19, yielding a peppered ambulance bill. So my question is about non-corona patients who do have consequences from the corona crisis. What measures do you take to compensate for these additional costs? A second block of questions concerns notifications with psychological complaints to the emergency services. Is there any monitoring of hospital data in this context? What kind of complaints are we talking about? What measures can be taken in this respect? The State General of Mental Health has launched a call as a tsunami of psychological distress can be expected in patients and in the population, while the necessary psychological support should be provided to the caregivers. What measures do you intend to take in this respect? In my opinion, we should go beyond the extension of pilot projects in relation to age categories. Clearly, there is still a lack of psychological care. Our psychologists are also asking for more support. We must respond to that. Apart from that, we also need to look at what is happening in psychiatric hospitals. Mr President, I come to my third block.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u44	Mr Bertels, your speaking time has already passed. So you must ask your question very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u45	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, I will try to ask you questions that are strictly within your jurisdiction. Some epidemiological evidence leads to an improvement in the situation. However, it remains critical of both hospital intensive care units and nursing homes. Everyone knows what has happened in the last 24 hours in nursing homes. What about the Consultation Committee that is being held today? Have any decisions already been made? Is there any further consultation with nursing homes in connection with the federated entities in order to avoid what has been witnessed? As far as rest homes are concerned, you know that I have always advocated for intermediate structures to reduce pressure on them, given the current critical situation. Structures have been put in place. But it seems to me that this is not the case in the Brussels region. I had asked that the capacity of the Military Hospital be used, especially since the saturation of hospitals in Brussels is quite important and there is no real support at the level of nursing homes in the Brussels-Capital Region. Minister, are you considering using the Military Hospital to reduce pressure? Many difficulties have been encountered by intensive care units due to life-saving drug problems. I note that the dialogue between ABSyM and AFMPS has resumed, which is a good thing. I hope that we can review the procedures to facilitate the work of the intensive care units that are facing this issue with respect to certain drugs. This is how I come to the issue of masks and barrier measures. On 14 April, Sciensano, the Higher Council of Health, the FPS Santé and the AFMPS took a clear official position in order to recommend the collective wearing of the alternative mask in situations in which many people are brought to meet; I am thinking in particular of shops and public transport. The National Security Council, for its part, was content with the adviser. Would it not be fundamental to increase the barrier measures by imposing the collective wearing of the mask right now, especially in shops? I recall that a series of stores were allowed to reopen their doors. Also with respect to wearing the mask, Sciensano amended its April 1, 2020 guidelines for home nurses, saying that they should not wear masks except for situations at risk, including patients who may be affected by VOCID-19. But you know as well as I do that it is not written "COVID-19" on the front of patients and that many of them are asymptomatic. On the other hand, home nurses may not want to be a vector. Unfortunately, they can be contaminated by an asymptomatic patient as they do very close care. I therefore call again here for a clear message as to the importance of wearing this mask and for them to have sufficient quantities of masks. At the testing level, the test indications are now extremely restrictive. Two days ago, your colleague, Minister De Backer, made it clear that there would now be freedom of the prescribing physician for the tests. Or Sciensano did not modify his website in this sense, since he made only a very small modification. Minister, do you intend to amend the testing guidelines to be consistent with what Minister De Backer has announced? Still on testing, I would like to join the questions about reimbursement for patients. Have things been made clear, given that there have been difficulties? Will laboratories that are not associated with the consortium benefit from both reimbursement for the patient and support for the tests that they continue to perform and that are fundamental to increasing our testing capacity? Finally, what about serology? I am thinking not only of ZenTech but also of the Saint-Luc University Clinics project, which makes it possible to have very fast results. What about the reimbursement for the patient? As far as health care workers are concerned, the government has repeatedly spoken of a bonus. Is that decided? An urgent clarification is now needed. I would also like to raise a few very specific issues, including the treatment of immunoglobulins. I know that a Corimuno-Coviplasm study is in progress but limits to half of the patients enrolled in this study the possibility of receiving immunoglobulin therapy, other patients not receiving treatment but physiological fluid. However, this treatment with immunoglobulins would be life-saving in certain situations. Is it not necessary to offer intensive care to patients for whom the evolution is not good? Anosmia and dysgeusia have now shown that they can have an important place in early diagnosis. Two studies have shown that these were the first symptoms in 87 and 70 per cent of cases. Scientists and I had relayed this information to the Health FPS. However, the FPS stated that we would see all this after the epidemic. However, it seems to me that these symptoms should be officially repeated in order to facilitate, in a number of cases, early diagnosis. Minister, I would also like to join the questions on the postponement of medical care. For a whole series of pathologies, the number is decreasing, and this is quite abnormal when it comes to emergencies or semi-emergencies. On the issue of hospital funding, I would like to know what is the status of the working group that has been set up to consider the follow-up after the € billion that has been released. I have a few more questions that I have specified in writing. These include taking home-based deaths into account. These deaths are only enlisted if there has been a VOCID-19 test at home. However, there are almost no VOCID-19 tests performed at home. Last week, I had already asked for the composition of all the task forces and groups set up. I would also like to know how consulting firms like McKinsey and Deloitte are involved. I think I've gone through the list of all my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u46	Mrs Rohonyi has the floor for six minutes. I notice that the six minutes are hard to hold for everyone. Would you like to try, ma'am?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u47	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for your availability. I know it's not obvious at this time of crisis, with all these meetings that you absolutely have to attend.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u48	My second question, which I would like to stress very much, concerns access to contraception and abortion. That has been mentioned by my colleagues. As is well known, family planning centres have been recognized as essential areas that remain open for the provision of abortions, emergency contraceptives, HIV testing or responding to situations of violence. Nevertheless, it remains difficult, especially for young women living with their parents, to visit a planning centre. It is also impossible to obtain contraceptive or emergency pills from his pharmacist without a prescription, while visits to his general practitioner or gynaecologist are made difficult. Containment has also been shown to increase situations of domestic violence, including sexual violence, and consequently unwanted pregnancy. It is clear from all this that access to contraception and abortion is more than ever an absolute necessity. In addition, the United Nations agency for sexual and reproductive health has reported a risk of a global shortage of condoms and abortive pills, due to border closures and other restrictive measures that disrupt their production and transport. The agency fears an increase in unwanted pregnancies, risky abortions but also STDs, particularly AIDS. Madam Minister, are you going to adopt, as in France, a royal decree allowing the delivery of contraceptive pills in pharmacies without a prescription, but also the delivery of the next day's pill without charge and without prescription? Are you going to set up a national information campaign informing the general public that the planning centres are still open, especially for applications relating to GVI and emergency contraception? Is there a strategic reserve of condoms, contraceptives and abortive pills? If not, and given the risk of a shortage recently reported by the United Nations, will you put it in place? If so, how?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u49	I would like to return to the debate we had yesterday in plenary on visits to nursing homes. As is well known, the National Security Council has authorized visits, while nursing homes are affected by two thirds of deaths due to coronavirus. Yesterday, we explained our misunderstanding of this decision. I would like to go back to one particular point, namely that visits would be allowed for a single visitor, from the moment he does not have symptoms. However, Mr. De Backer confirmed on Wednesday in the Health Committee that 15% of those tested positive were asymptomatic. Minister, as Minister of Health, but also as a doctor, I would have liked to have your opinion on this matter and on the idea of allowing these visits only under certain conditions, for example when residents and staff have been tested negative. Could there also be a testing priority for the direct parents of the residents? Will it be recommended or imposed on these visitors to wear a mask? If so, will we be able to provide them with them, knowing that the staff of the nursing homes themselves sometimes find it difficult to have adequate protective equipment? I would also like to come back to the issue of serology tests. They are now developing. Much is expected, especially from the perspective of deconfination, except that many unknowns persist with regard to immunity as such that would have been developed as a result of contamination with coronavirus. The President of the French Scientific Council on VOCID-19, the equivalent of our Risk Management Group, believes that antibodies that would have been developed may not appear until 28 days after the contamination of initially asymptomatic people. In other words, an immunity test that would be carried out too soon on a person who would be contaminated could eventually give a false negative result. Minister, does the government take such information into account, particularly in the context of deconfining? What do the Risk Management Group experts think?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u50	With regard to the development of screening tests, this morning's press revealed that a French company had developed a brand new method of mass screening, in collaboration with an American start-up. These are tests to be performed alone, using its smartphone and a reusable adapter. The advantage of these tests is that a biological analysis would not be necessary after a 30-minute result has been obtained. I would therefore like to know whether our experts take this into account. Have international contacts been established to exchange practical information? Do you intend, therefore, to review the royal decree prohibiting self-tests, which are currently considered unreliable and too expensive, when they could eventually be certified? I'd also like to go back to the care...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u51	Mrs. Rohonyi, you could easily think of concluding.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u52	Finally, how can we explain that, despite the presence of controls on veterinary medicinal products for human use – and while the AFMPS is doing everything possible to find solutions – doctors remain so worried about this? Why are they not better informed about the solutions developed by the Agency? Who determines when a stock becomes insufficient? Should hospitals take proactive steps to set the alarm bell?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u53	Mrs. Rohonyi, I'm sorry, but I have to interrupt.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u54	Finally, what about a monitoring of needs?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u55	You still used a lot of speaking time. I'll keep an eye on this next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u56	Minister, I will speak to nursing homes, to the issue of drug supplies and to the issue of protective equipment in psychiatry, osteopathy, physiotherapy or dentistry. As far as rest homes are concerned, there is a sharp stir around the possibility given to one and only one person to be able to go there. Rest homes are currently experiencing difficult times. I will not go back to what has been said by my colleagues, I will speak on one point and I would like to hear your views as a minister and a doctor. We're going to run tests in all the nursing homes and we're going to get the results soon. There will be positive results among residents as well as workers. About workers, what should the manager do if a worker is asymptomatic positive? So far, the logic has been to say that people have to keep coming to work. Don't you think asking asymptomatic people to come and work is about supporting the spread of VOCID-19? Is it really serious to ask people to keep coming to work? In my municipality, with the CPAS and the management of our nursing home, we ask ourselves a lot of questions. I would like to inform you of my incomprehension and ask you to take the problem with the body. Secondly, I will address another topical issue. On the subject of drug supplies, we talked about shortages in hospitals. Understand us, we are not in your service but we listen to the president of the Belgian Association of Medical Trade Unions, the ABSyM, but also the employers' federation of health care institutions. What they say is still to be taken seriously. They explain that some hospitals placed their orders and were delivered five days later. It's serious when you think there are lives to save in hospitals. Questions are raised about untested veterinary drugs recommended by AFMPS. We in Parliament need to question you and hear you. In general, there remains the issue of transparency in the distribution of drugs to hospitals. Hospitals do not receive the required medication on time. They don't know what drugs they will receive or how much. That is the whole question of supply. Of course, when no medication comes, you're tempted to say you're in short supply. In addition, when you learn that you are advised to use veterinary drugs, it becomes quite easy to conclude that there is a shortage. My question is about your opinion. What are you going to do, especially to ensure that drugs arrive faster? We are in a crisis that you know perfectly well. I still have a two-pronged question about the forgotten of the pandemic crisis, particularly the psychiatry sector. Caregivers in psychiatry hospitals have few protective masks. It seems clearly forgotten in the distribution of means. The Psychiatric Hospital Chiefs Association is sounding the alarm. The follow-up of patients is indeed deeply disturbed by confinement. All these upheavals are a source of tension and anxiety in the mental health sector. This situation is compounded by the risk of contamination and spread of the virus in psychiatric institutions. It's a little the same as in the rest homes. Medical care for psychiatric patients with VOCID-19 may not be possible. I would like to hear your views on the matter and to hear your views on the steps you are going to take in this regard. On the other hand, other professions we also need, such as dentists, physiotherapists, osteopaths, have had to close their offices because of the lack of sufficient masks to protect themselves and their patients. Today, patients are extremely worried, as are health care professionals who fear for their future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u57	Mr Kir, your time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u58	Minister, what steps will be taken to enable these health professionals to overcome the current crisis and safeguard their employment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u59	Madam Secretary, we are pleased to welcome you here. You got 20 minutes, but maybe a little more time is needed. It can also be 25 minutes, because we also realize that there are a lot of questions. Of course, there must be time for the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u60	Mr President, I will respect the principle of the replies, but at 4.30 p.m. I have to switch from Zoom to Webex to participate in an important meeting of the OCC. I shall begin with questions concerning hospitals, capacity, the admissions of foreign patients, which Mrs Van Hoof, among others, asked about. My main concern is indeed all the efforts to free up and maintain capacity in our hospitals. For a number of patients with no urgent concern we see that interventions have been postponed, but on the other hand we see that a number of hospitals seem to be over the top of the epidemic and that they are continuing to do so partly, whatever needs to be done. Can we make solidarity capacity available to foreign countries? Some of our hospitals, mainly than university hospitals, have protocols with, for example, the Netherlands as part of the tertiary function. The UZ Gent is such a tertiary hospital for patients from Zeeuws-Vlaanderen. There are still cooperations in other border areas. Hospitals decide for themselves whether they are capable of doing so. We are, of course, in favour, but until last week, the hospitals were somewhat hesitant about the situation. One did not know where one would end up if the number of patients in intensive care continued to increase, and one cannot put two patients in one bed. There were also questions about mental health care. We believe that the crisis will have a significant psychosocial impact and that we will therefore have to expand the supply. This extension has been submitted to the advisory committee, which includes representatives of professional associations. The modalities of the convention psychological first-line care have been extended to include the aged 18 and 65-plussers. There are also scientific studies to determine what will be needed more. In addition, telephone consultations of psychiatrists and psychologists were made possible. Work doctors and external services for prevention and protection at work can also refer them to a conventional psychologist. Further action will be taken on the basis of the working group's data. Mental health care must indeed be dealt with immediately. The past has taught us that the longer people wait to seek help, the more that concern is missed. The crisis centre indicates the importance of mental health care and mental hygiene in the daily briefing. Indeed, that communication is used to give that message. It is important that care is not postponed. We are investigating other initiatives for this. Mrs H annoyance, with regard to the White Blouse Fund, two weeks ago we reached an overall agreement in the parliamentary working group on the use of additional resources. This agreement implies that this budget and the resources relating to hospitals will be allocated using the existing system of the Financial Means Budget (BMF) and that the social partners will be involved in this allocation. My services started working. It is necessary to draw up and analyse several elements and to determine how to organize themselves practically: definition of criteria, changes required in legislation, etc. This work continues with a social consultation which is not obvious given the current circumstances. I also look forward to the opinion of the Federal Council of Hospital Institutions. However, I can assure you, given the resources available, that we are making every effort to move forward, but we are not yet ready to submit the text to Parliament. Of course, we are working on it. Many questions related to testing, including the number of tests and the choices made by federated entities. I will send you all the replies in writing in this regard. You will find that these are the same answers as those given by Philippe De Backer, since we work together every day. Mrs Van Camp, you had a question about the consultation with the home care sector. The consultations began in mid-March 2020. The specific committee within the RMG consists and is composed of people from the Public Health Office, representatives from all states, representatives from the home care sector and also someone from my policy cell. A list was made and concrete proposals were made. This has led to a number of measures at different levels, to help the sector, including the suspension of the e-ID reading by the RIZIV. There are also masks scattered in the sector. Specific guidelines have been drawn up for home nurses. The classification of home care has been adjusted. Measures have also been taken, such as the increase in fees and reimbursement of visits by home nurses, compensation for follow-up and supervision in patients with COVID-19 infection and a related problem in home situations. Mrs. Gijbels, you are curious about the royal decree. That is not yet the case, because we are, of course, still waiting for the opinion of the Council of State. The decision was also discussed with the so-called supercore last week. The supercore contains the current core plus the ten party chairmen. In short, it is about the possibility of having nurses and doctors who we are short in such a crisis able to help other health care professionals, with the aim of allowing them to take care of nurses. I'm thinking care professionals, ergotherapists, physiotherapists and others. They can do so on a voluntary basis. They may provide such actions after training and in cooperation with doctors or nurses. It's an emergency scenario that could be applied if our numbers of nurses to deploy were exhausted. A second royal decree aims to recover certain health care professionals. That was a question from Mrs Jiroflée and Mrs Merckx. I hope that we will never need the decision. However, if it is necessary to ensure continuity of care, it is a good thing that we have such a royal decision. They will be deployed where necessary and where there is a shortage. This is, of course, done in consultation. That is also for advice from the Council of State. In the consultation committee it was agreed that, if necessary, there would always be prior consultation with the Land Ministers and with the sector. But again, I hope we won't need it. We can discuss its modalities later, but as regards the number of healthcare professionals to be reclaimed, this is discussed not only with those involved, but also with the health inspector and the governor. We are going for a very negotiated but pragmatic approach. Many members have asked a question about the psychosocial impact of the health crisis. In this respect, the Communities have also taken additional initiatives, such as low-threshold telephone or chat lines. I myself helped with the larger announcement of the Flemish telephone service and chat line AWEL. There are regular consultations on this at the Inter-Ministerial Conference and we are all doing what we can in our area. As regards the questions about the tests and the studies, I will answer them all in writing. If you asked Minister De Backer two days ago how many tests were being carried out, the situation is of course different today, as daily tests are being carried out and those figures change every day. In the last few days work has mainly been carried out on residential care centres because the Länder had made it clear that there was a major problem there. The Inter-Ministerial Conference therefore immediately addressed this issue. On 14 April, the Risk Management Group adopted a global framework on support for the elderly institutions sector by the hospital sector. This was confirmed by the IMC Public Health on 15 April. It concerns the determinations of different groups, namely the Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee, the committee that meets every day, the Primary & Outpatient Care Surge Capacity Committee and the Outbreak Management Group, which brings together the authorities responsible for monitoring COVID-19, in all centres, including disability institutions and the like, all collective centres. Three basic principles were included in this framework. Firstly, there is the support of the residential care centres. Support is provided, but this should never prejudice the basic mission of hospitals, their mission in general and in the context of the COVID-19 crisis in particular. They support residential care centres. Such support should also be assessed locally. Hospital support is concentrated mainly on areas where they have real added value. The practical organisation is the result of consultation between several hospitals with a supporting capacity. Preferably, this is done in the locoregional network and otherwise geographically close. Partnerships can then be identified to support residential care centres, as well as home care services and volunteers. Other actors are also best informed about the support. Hospitals should be regularly informed about the evolution of the state of health in residential care centres in their region. If there are major problems there, of course there will be consequences for hospital admissions. It's a cry for help. In the long term, residential care centres will have to be able to return to their job if they are through the problems, if they have been helped in the field of testing and expertise provided by clinical pharmacologists, hygienists, caregivers in palliative care and so on. That is an external liaison team from the hospitals that goes to the centers or provides help via videoconference. The hospitals are not supposed to provide their staff. I hear there are people in the hospitals who don't have a job right now. The emergency plans have made sure that more IC beds have been added. For an extra IC-bed, two teams are needed more than for an ordinary bed, so those people are already trained and enabled. I find it hard to ask those people to work in a residential care center during their recovery day, if they already have one. This indeed ensures that there are empty beds, but the bestaffing that goes with it is in another department such as intensive care. The department where ECMO is applied even needs a three- or quadruple shift. So it's not all that simple to organize it in hospitals. (...) via the FOD the surge capacity, who knows how many people are in an ordinary bed in all our hospitals, how many in a bed with inspiration, how many in an IC bed. They then create the curves, which gives us an idea of how we can maintain our capacity for the number of people who are being hospitalized. Home nurses can also be employed in the residential care centres, Mr De Caluwé. However, the nomenclature for home nursing cannot be used, so there must be agreements between the home care centre and the home care service or the home nurse. Around 10% of the activity of home nurses has been lost, but they also need more time because they have to take hygienic measures and take protective clothes on and off. Part of absenteeism in residential care centres is mainly due to people who are ill or are in danger of becoming ill, but also to people who are afraid of going to residential care centres. Hospitals may also support nursing homes by providing them with the necessary protective equipment. As for the federated entities, they have issued equipment to their structures. There is also temporary support for the accommodation of patients. A hospital can temporarily take a patient if he needs too much care, but that patient can also be temporarily brought to an intermediate structure if there are problems with the available oxygen systems in the home/care centre. I haven't heard a lot of questions about that. We have decided that if people need a large flow of oxygen, which is usually the case with COVID-19 patients, they can stay longer in the hospital to relieve the burden on residential care centres. The hospitals, in cooperation with the medical organizations, also provide training for doctors and support for coordinating and consulting doctors in the residential care centres and provide training for the correct use of the test material. As regards intermediate structures, the operational unit set up by the Public Health FPS with the support of the Defence launched an investigation on 27 March to identify all infrastructure that could be activated as intermediate structures. This cell received 460 responses from the French-speaking side and 150 responses from the Dutch-speaking side. There are 250 active infrastructures in the territory of Brussels and 80 in the territory of the Flemish Region. Four intermediate reception facilities were activated in Flanders and two in Wallonia. A reception facility is being prepared in Brussels. A lot of questions have been asked about chronic and delayed care. Some interventions have indeed been postponed, but never interventions of chronic care for people with really serious problems. Treatments such as placing a knee prosthesis are delayed. However, we hear from the hospitals that care is being postponed, which I have already said may be dangerous, as the disease does not just go away. For that we even recorded movies in two languages. There is a real need to continue to consult with general practitioners or hospital physicians in the event of complaints. People are afraid of going to hospital, but hospitals have taken sufficient steps to separate patients with VOCID-19 from other patients. General practitioners have also taken steps: they work by appointment, without waiting room. They ask patients to wait outside, which makes it possible to limit contacts. We have also set up yard stations to exclude too many patients in the waiting rooms. Tents and sorting stations are an effective logistical aid. Mr President, I have already reached the end of my speaking time. All the questions about medicines and vaccines have been put together in a few answers. With your permission, I'll send it to you. With regard to the shortage of medicines, I have already answered Mrs Tillieux's question yesterday in plenary. Mr. De Cuyper responded immediately to requests for a joint communication at AFMPS and Absym to address the concerns of health professionals. This statement is in five pages and I invite you to read it. You will learn that the stock of medicines now allows patients to be taken care of for more than four weeks and that deliveries seem to become less difficult to obtain within 15 days. We want to reach six weeks of use. I've heard more times in your questions. I am therefore glad that clarity is given to this issue, which is still important not to scare hospitalized patients or their families. It was clarified that propofol was intended for human and veterinary use. This has been assessed by our experts. The same applies to all necessary tests provided by the Agency. Mrs Schlitz, with regard to access to contraceptives, many measures have already been taken to support the work of all caregivers and to ensure continuity. Two measures in particular facilitate the issuance of contraceptive prescriptions through prescriptions issued to patients by limiting contact and movement. On the one hand, there is the possibility for the doctor to give medical advice by telephone and to make electronic prescriptions. On the other hand, there is the possibility for the patient to go to the pharmacy only with the RID code of her prescription which has been transmitted to her by e-mail or by telephone by the doctor, in place of the proof of electronic prescription on paper previously required. Mrs Tillieux, Mrs Schlitz, with regard to the voluntary termination of pregnancy, care providers were asked to postpone all non-emergency interventions, with the aim of freeing up as many beds as possible. However, no comprehensive list of priority services has been developed. It belongs to the providers concerned – doctors, dentists, physiotherapists, midwives, etc. – to assess the urgency of care. However, an interruption of pregnancy such as childbirth requires an intervention within a limited time. It is therefore obvious that this factor is taken into account by the services concerned, which must assess the urgency of the care. Mrs Depoorter also had a question about the DNR code. If I may, Mr President, I will also give you the answer. Then there is another important point that several Members have raised. There is much talk about the attitude of hospitals towards elderly patients, patients with disabilities or mental illnesses. In particular, the League of Health Services Users (LUSS) drew attention to this point. I had contact with some of its members to discuss this issue. I also have a detailed written answer to the questions asked by the Conseil Supérieur. Mr President, I will forward this document to you. We must avoid excluding certain groups of more vulnerable patients and we have taken appropriate measures in hospitals, in particular to prevent doctors from having to make choices according to the patients to be treated. All patients are tested and cared for if necessary. There is no criterion such as age, child, age or older, disability, male, female or other gender that can make a difference. There is no excuse for discrimination, as is clearly stated in the letter I sent. I will provide the answer in Dutch and French in the context of public administration, but also because it is important for the representatives of the people to know how we deal with it and how we can ensure that all those who need it can be helped. Many questions relate to the reporting of deaths. It must be said that Sciensano is doing a lot of work. There are not many problems in hospitals. As far as the number of deaths outside hospitals is concerned, the proportion of unconfirmed or suspected COVID patients is very high. It is always about numbers of people who have died, but we want to know what additional mortality is caused by the COVID virus. Of course, it remains as painful for the family as people have died of something else. I honestly believe that it doesn't matter much to the people what Grandma died of, but in the figures we have to make a distinction. In Europe, there is an ECDC saying that it itself is not actually a uniform way of reporting. In Germany, for example, reporting comes from the sixteen Länder. The Robert Koch Institute is reporting for the whole country but it would not be ready until 1 November 2020. Since we want to be able to compare what is happening in neighbouring countries, Sciensano is now calculating the excess mortality rate, the difference between the normal expected number of deaths based on the figures for the last five years per age group and the current number. Those figures are likely to appear on the website in the course of the next week. The actual mortality rate is thus compared with the expected figure based on the deaths of previous years, with the fluctuations indicating whether the flu was bad or ordinary. For the epidemiologists, these figures are interesting, but for the man or woman in the street, each death is of course one that needs to be treated with the same respect. Then there was another question about the EUR 1 billion. This decision has been made mainly to ensure that hospitals do not encounter thesis problems. That's a first KB. It had to be quick. There will also be another RB which will also have to allocate funds. With this EUR 1 billion, the stocking is not finished. The bill will be made afterwards. Working groups are financing the additional costs associated with COOVID-19 and how it will proceed for the revenue that has been lost, but where continuity is needed to provide care to the people. There is only temporary unemployment in contractual contracts, not in statutory staff. In order to avoid such temporary unemployment, guarantees were also provided for the staff covered by the BFM. Those people are being deployed in other places, too. It will be a very difficult exercise to get the lower revenues and the additional costs processed in an objective way. Therefore, working groups at the RIZIV were also set up. Mr President, I will provide all the answers in the next few days, especially for the next committee. I may also be able to pass on a number of things right away.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u61	Madam Minister, you have spoken a little longer than the speaking time provided for, but above all I would like to avoid Members saying that you have not responded sufficiently. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now give the floor to Members for their reply. We've exceeded our timetable. We had agreed a reply time of two minutes per permanent member, giving six minutes speaking time to groups with three permanent members. I propose to make that five minutes; that would be good.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u62	Mr President, I will do my best. Madam Minister, with regard to the royal decision on the delegation of nursing duties to other care providers, my main concern was to know whether this applies to all healthcare institutions. Not all care institutions have a fixed, streamlined team where care tasks can be divided. I hope that the royal decree applies to all health care institutions so that people who perform tasks other than their usual ones can sleep on their two ears.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u63	Yeah, it's everywhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u64	That's very good. I have not heard much about a pre-existing roadmap to take care or advice on this matter for the residential care centres, but I hope that this will be on the verge of happening as soon as possible. With regard to the count of deaths as a result of COVID-19, I do not understand why a sample is not simply taken postmortem. That is, after all, the most precise. It is true that the actual cause of death does not matter, since the death is equally bad for the family, but it is of course the intention that we should draw lessons from the studies to map epidemiology, so that, in the event of a subsequent epidemic, we can minimise the spread within the health care institutions. As regards the test criteria, I have not received an answer either from your colleague, Mr De Backer. Hopefully this will be answered in writing. I have not heard anything about the usefulness of contact insulation either. As far as non-essential treatments are concerned, I fully understand that different treatments must be restarted and that this must be done if there is room, but this must be clearly defined. After all, I hear that a few weeks ago plastic surgery was already done and non-essential jaw surgery. Some dentists are apparently also engaged in regular consultations and treatments. For me, a very clear framework must be provided when what can be done. That must be properly transmitted and communicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u65	Mr President, Minister, some of the answers have been given, but not many. As far as health care institutions are concerned, you have now clarified that the billion has been released to ensure in the short term that hospitals do not cross over, that the bills can be paid. There will be additional resources. This is discussed in working groups. There is nothing concrete yet, so I would ask you once again to provide sufficient resources and a fair distribution. The losses in the hospitals are really huge. In particular, locks must be provided to ensure that the necessary resources are transferred to the care staff. We must not forget that they have been risking their lives on the frontline for more than a month now for our health. As far as my second question on patient follow-up fees is concerned, I find it very worrying that you say that this is only a one-off fee for home care that comes into contact with and cared for a patient with COVID-19. That is not correct, because home care now has to spend extra resources on protective equipment for all patients, which you have not provided enough from the government. You did not answer my question. I have submitted a specific case to you, in which the COOVID line formally stated that it does not have sufficient material. It is also surgical masks that do not adequately protect our home care. A fee only for the follow-up of the patients who are infected is really inadequate if one knows that they now have to incur additional costs for their safety and for the patients they care for at home. I find that unacceptable. Finally, as far as the material is concerned, just answer that material has been provided. I thought that one of the most important questions was what protection you provided for our caregivers in the front line, and you answered in one sentence that provided material. Like I said, they're surgical mouth masks. They're not enough. I would like to remind you once again that our health care staff are risking their lives on the front line every day, and you have not even provided adequate or adequate protective equipment. I hope that you will at least release the necessary resources to compensate for those people whom we are counting so hard on today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u66	Madam Minister, I look forward to the written answer to my questions, because I have not really received many answers. That is a pity; however, we will see each other again next week. As far as mental health is concerned, you will answer that this has been extended. I asked if many psychologists are already participating in first-line psychology. Currently, this is less than 10 %. I didn't get an answer for this. The same applies to the tests at the GP. You refer to Minister De Backer, but he didn't answer either. However, it is very simple: the general practitioner can do the test on a patient when he sees the need to do so, if necessary at the expense of the patient. You can answer yes or no; that is all we need to know. The same applies to antigen tests and antibody tests: I do not get an answer to the question on this for the fifth time. I am beginning to find that very special. We have been talking about chloroquine for two months now. The first time you said that chloroquine had only been tested for mice. We all know that chloroquine has been around for years and has been used for years. Its toxicological hazards are known. There is now such a crisis with so many sick people that we can now really check whether it should be used early in the treatment or preventively What will your answer be to all those patients with chronic lung disease after COVID-19? Finally, we need to measure indeed to know how many people have died from COOVID-19. You refer to Sciensano, which is investigating the excess mortality rate; today it has published that in March there is 77 percent extra, so we know that the excess mortality rate is significant. I really must say, Madam Minister, Mrs Gijbels has already referred to it, that anyone who is now making efforts to approach and relativise these figures in a different way really does not take into account the suffering of all the families affected. It's not a race to prove numbers. We need to trace epidemiologically. If people die from COVID-19 in the residential care centers, there may be underlying conditions. We all know that, considering the age of the people who stay there. If a doctor from a nursing home declares a death, then he knows what he's talking about, doesn't he? We must stop playing games with them, because it is about the suffering of our families.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u67	Minister, thank you for your answers. Having said that, you have not answered all my questions. I will therefore resubmit them since they were deposited rather late. As far as abortion is concerned, given the sensitivity of this question, leaving the free appreciation to hospitals seems to me to be risky. It is known that, in some parts of Italy or in the United States, abortion is no longer possible, which is unacceptable. It is by practicing in this way that abortions are carried out in hiding, endangering the health of women. In addition, I did not receive a response regarding the number of abortions currently being performed in hospitals. As far as pregnant women working on the front line are concerned, I understand that at this stage there is no demand for staff. Like you, I hope it won't be necessary. But I do not understand how women who would normally be excluded because they are pregnant are currently working; I am thinking in particular of nurses. Having said that, I did not understand your answer to the issue of non-prescription contraceptives. Did you mean that an order was not necessary or that the electronic order solved the problem? Can you enlighten me on this point? Nor did I receive an answer to my midwives question. I stress the need to give them clear guidelines and to include them among the priority audiences for the provision of protective equipment. Indeed, they are in the front line and deprived, for the time being. As for pregnant women, I hope that we will return as soon as possible to standard protocols that are truly respectful of maternity and that they will also be considered priorities for testing. Mr President, Madam Minister, as I have just said, I will re-ask questions for next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u68	Mr President, Minister, I keep wondering what I have done all afternoon. I asked a number of questions last week which were perhaps too recent. I then retabled them before 11 a.m. on Friday morning. In the meantime, we're a week later. I would simply ask you to confirm whether the recognition as an occupational disease for self-employed nurses is okay. You replied last week that there is such recognition. In the meantime, I have had a lot of questions about this. I guess I just can't answer "yes, it's okay" to my question. I would also like to tell you about the general practitioners that everything is going well.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u69	Mr President, Mrs Creemers, the answer to your questions must have gone technically wrong in the Chamber. The chairman knows that. It's not me. I didn't get them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u70	I sent them to your cabinet chief on Monday.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u71	Something really technically went wrong. You never send them directly to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u72	I sent them in through the regular channels on Friday. Mr President, you can give me a hand with what we have done on Monday. Madam Minister, since something technically went wrong on Friday, all the questions were sent to your cabinet via the chairman and the committee secretariat on Monday.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u73	That has happened effectively in that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u74	Mr President, Mrs Creemers, we received a number yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u75	Monday afternoon, I delivered them all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u76	We got them yesterday. We'll clear the case. It is very important that Fedris has reached a decision on the recognition of occupational diseases. I think that was published on Fedris' website this week. So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u77	Thank you. That's what I wanted to hear. In connection with the general practitioners, I hear a lot of good stories about the triages. I don't know if samples will happen, but if they don't, we don't know what's going well and what's not. I believe you when you say that in most cases there are no mixed waiting rooms, but I hear on the premises that this is true. So maybe there's some sort of sampling to be done there. You're saying that psychological support is currently carried out through the employer. It is a good thing that there is a referral to convenioned doctors, but our caregivers deserve more at the moment. Small hospitals and primary care also need a coordinated approach to avoid burn-out and exhaustion. I would therefore ask you again to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u78	Minister, thank you for your response to the White Blouse Fund and chronic patients. I'm waiting for your written answers about the refund of the serological tests you promised. Nor did I get an answer to the agreement with pharmaceutical laboratories, because I would like to see full transparency in this area. I will therefore ask my question again next week. With regard to psychiatric hospitals, you mentioned an increase in the number of psychologists in terms of mental health. However, I asked you about the protection of health care staff working in these hospitals, which depend solely on you. These teams face acute patient intakes that may be carriers of the virus and are not tested. There is therefore a risk that a home will be built there. This must be taken into account now. This was done a little late for nursing homes; psychiatric hospitals should not be forgotten. Thank you, and see you next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u79	Minister, thank you for some of your answers – but not for all of them, of course. I would like to have the documents that you have provided, including the joint statement by the AFMPS and the Absym. Could you send it to us? I don't think it's available on the site, because I tried to see it quickly during your answers. Then you spoke of a detailed written response to the Supreme Council on the issue of discrimination against persons with disabilities. Could you send it to us? Finally, as my colleague has said, we have received moderately satisfactory answers to the issue of contraception and abortion. We would like you to take much stronger and stronger action. On the Belgian company ZenTech, no answer to the question of the deployment of tests. Will they be in Belgium? If so, when? Is there a contract? I don't have any answers to that. Finally, with regard to the distribution of tests carried out between the different regions, I would like to obtain the figures. I would also like them to be included in the FPS Epidemiologic Bulletin Public Health, so that it can communicate them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u80	Minister, it will become difficult to hear Mr. From Backer, sometimes you. We ask questions to each other, who sends us back to the other. You're telling us that Mr. De Backer answered us. If I came back to you in relation to the controversy about laboratories, it's precisely because I didn't get a whole series of answers. I thought, naively, that you, as Minister of Health, could provide us with answers, in particular to a very simple question: who makes up the consortium? But I understand that I will not have an answer on this. On the other hand, I had a question, and I started my speech earlier on this subject, on the masks. It's been one of my marottes since the start of the crisis. I wanted to go back to those famous 3 million masks that had arrived in Liège and had been downgraded. I asked Mr. From Backer if these masks could be used under other conditions. Of course, I wasn't thinking about the medical sector, but maybe about the retail sector, about those people who are forced to work without protection. I didn't get an answer. I asked you the question and I didn't get an answer either. Minister, I also asked you about the circular that I received. I've got it in my hand. I read it to you earlier. I'll read you the message that comes to me from the hospital directorates. I am told that the directive is: "Because of the shortage of personal protective equipment for healthcare staff, it is allowed for each hospital to retain this single-use equipment. The infectious and efficacy risk is possible, but not safe. Moreover, responsibility remains full and entire, on the part of the institutions." Minister, I would like you to speak on this circular. This seems to me to be very dangerous information that is provided to hospitals. The directorates tell me they have a lot of questions about this. Madam Minister, I would have liked to hear from you about this circular sent to the hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u81	Madam Minister, it is true that you are devoting a great deal of time to us, and it is true that we are asking for a great deal of time, but it is also putting time to use for each and every one of us. Like my colleague, Patrick Prévot, I also feel that it is difficult to obtain some answers. Minister, to which minister do we have to ask our questions about wearing masks in order to hope for an answer? Mr. De Backer didn't answer and you don't answer either. However, citizens need answers, clarity and perspectives for tomorrow. I have heard several attempts to justify the terrible figures that are still highlighted today, in particular by the Italian press. I will not exhaust your time or mine to talk about these figures or to interpret them because, in any case, I do not want to relativize. If we want to know the real causes of today's deaths and the real numbers, I see only one solution, it's generalizing screening. The figures will not change the reality, that of hospitals in overcapacity, stress, physical and moral pain, not only for patients, relatives, but also, as I said earlier, for front-line actors. For this moral pain, I come back with the need to psychologically support front-line personnel who are mentally exhausted by stress, pressure, suffering, but also our fellow citizens who are in shock. It is becoming difficult for many of us to live these moments to which we were not prepared. That is why access must be guaranteed, but also access must be particularly financial. As such, I will recall that in October 2019, my colleagues, Patrick Prévot and Eliane Tillieux, and I tabled a resolution to ensure this financial accessibility to mental health care because, more than ever, it is a necessity. Making psychological care reimbursable, sending a clear signal of benevolence and empathy, especially in the current situation, I have the feeling that this is, more than ever, what the citizens expect. They need it. Thank you. I wish you a good end of the day and a lot of courage.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u82	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you, but I do not know why: I have not received any answers to my questions. I had questions about the vaccines and the antivirals. I assume you will reply in writing and look forward to that. About the destroyed strategic stock the mouth masks I didn't get an answer. I didn't get an answer about setting up a federal fund. On the question of whether a strategic stock will be built after the corona crisis, I did not get an answer. I didn't get an answer about testing psychogeriatry. Madam Secretary, really, I think that's beneath me. Are my questions inferior to those of my colleagues? Then you'll have to say that and I'll stop asking questions. I think that this shows little respect for, firstly, the questioners, and secondly, for the voters whom Mr Creyelman did not receive answers to his questions here either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u83	I have made a selection and you will receive the answers to your questions, because they have also been asked by other people. In 20 minutes, I can only do what I can in 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u84	Madam Secretary, that's true, but I didn't hear anyone asking about the federal fund. I didn't hear anyone ask about creating strategic stocks after the crisis. I didn't hear anyone ask about psychogeriatric hospitals. Now you say that because other colleagues have asked those questions, you will answer them in writing. That's not gonna happen to me. I would like to give my colleague time to respond if he so wishes, because I would be too angry.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u85	In any case, I suggest that we come back next week to the questions that have not been answered. We certainly have the two ministers together, and then there will be no problem with the powers and who needs to respond to them. Indeed, this sometimes makes it more difficult and sometimes also means duplication of effort.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u86	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for the answer, but I would have to see one of my questions answered. I didn't get an answer to my questions about the home test kits. The deployment of such tests under strict conditions, together with other measures, could help to map the spread of the virus. I regret that you did not answer my question about Chinese traditional medicines either. It is about herbs which can be assumed not to benefit from the principle, then it does not harm, applies to it, and with which the Chinese community in our country could be encouraged. Even to my question about the online range of tests, you didn't answer. I assume you don't want to worry at two speeds either. Madam Secretary, I am a tolerant and patient man.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u87	I have no knowledge of the Chinese herbs. I've studied traditional medicine and pharmacology, but when it comes to Chinese herbs, I'm an agnostic. I only remember one case about Chinese herbs. When I was a student, a lot of women found themselves with Chinese herbs to lose weight. They all ended up on dialysis. Since then I haven't been interested in that, but I suppose people feel better using not only Chinese herbs or eating two kiwis a day. I respect that, but I have no knowledge of it. I will not comment on something I have no knowledge of at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u88	Madam Secretary, I am not interrupting you with that question. She was filed a few days ago. Do you mind if I put you in touch with a number of people who know more about it than you and I do, to make a decision on that basis?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u89	That'll be after the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u90	Well, of course! Madam Minister, I have not received an answer to any of my questions. Some Members have received answers to a number of their questions, but I was not given that satisfaction. In all my tolerance and patience, I assume that my questions will be converted into written questions and that I can expect an answer from you. Mr President, I exceeded my speaking time a little, but I would like to return to the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u91	You were also interrupted a few times.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u92	Minister, thank you for answering a few questions, but I am still left with outstanding questions for which I have not received an answer. Could you send them to us in writing? That would be good because in the field, it's the art of troubleshooting and as mayors, we are very much solicited by both actors and patients. We really need to give them concrete answers. With regard to containment and quarantine and their impact on chronic diseases with the observed decrease in drug use, what measures have been taken? What additional means have been planned to support mental health professionals? Will all citizens be tested in advance with regard to progressive deconfinition? How long is the disease going on? What is the incubation time? What's the time of contagion? Will the serological tests planned be systematic for those who have been affected? Has the 48-hour procedure been changed on the shortage of medicines? As for the state of health of health care personnel, what about the prevalence study? What is the framework? What is the planning? How long will the results be? With regard to clinical studies, what is the status of the defined protocols? What is the status of recruitment? Are the studies targeted at Phases 1 and 2, healthy volunteers and patients? What will be the deadlines for protocols? What uniform guidelines are provided to general practitioners? It's really important. I note above all the point about the shortage of medicines where I feel a real gap between the answers given to us or not, our debates and the reality on the ground. Is this a communication problem, a delay in communication? Is it related to producing good communication at the right time? I don't know, but in any case, minister, we need answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u93	Mrs Dock has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u94	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. It was crucial to clarify and communicate the available stocks for the next few weeks. It is, and remains, extremely important to alleviate as much as possible the current situation, which unfortunately remains a source of fear for our hospitals and our people. I therefore welcome the joint communiqué with the ABSyM. This seems to me to be a constructive way of working and giving priority in the future. As far as the monitoring of chronic diseases is concerned, it will be necessary to remain extremely vigilant. I can hear you. Care should not be delayed, and other options should be explored. I'm still a little hungry. This is a crucial issue, which we will continue to follow very carefully, with our group, naked in crises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u95	Minister, I understand, of course, your real workload. That's why I've been weighted by asking you only one question. I sent it to you a week ago in preparation for last Tuesday's committee. I repeated it today. It is, in fact, crucial because it occurs in all hospitals and worries all the heads of department and doctors who have to perform tests with their patients. You said earlier: "People are afraid to go to hospital, but hospitals have taken enough steps to separate patients VOCID-19 and not VOCID-19." Precisely today, the most important measure is to test asymptomatic patients, such as women who arrive to give birth in a hospital, or those who arrive in an emergency for other operations, so as not to spread the infection and spoil all the work that has been done by doctors in hospitals by separating VOCID-19 from non-COVID-19. We need to test these asymptomatic patients. But who's gonna pay the bill? Will INAMI take charge of her? Will hospitals be able to send the bill for the VOCID-19 tests of asymptomatic patients to the patients themselves? I didn't get an answer and that bothers me a lot because, in reality, many heads of departments from different hospitals are asking me about this problem. I'm still waiting for an answer from you. I asked a question, I was waiting for an answer. I will reintroduce my question in writing and finally hope to have an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u96	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your efforts to respond. I hope you haven't given up, because we need you. You gave a slightly more detailed answer about the support to the residential care centres. Apparently, there's been a good consultation with the regional entities. It is good that a plan can be rolled out quickly. However, I remain left with questions about how this will be done administratively, the legal framework and funding. You spoke of those external liaison teams. In what way will they be extended? How is this set up legally and administratively? It was necessary to extend psychological primary care. You know, however, that there are a lot of questions on the ground. There's even a survey of the psychologists. They say there are a lot of thresholds. There are very few conflicted psychologists, only 500 out of 15,000. Only 200,000 euros of the 22.5 million have been used. The system is too complex. The rules are being questioned. It is said that the target group is too limited. There are still a lot of thresholds to be removed. You make psychological care for our caregivers quite dependent on the hospitals themselves, on the employers and on the occupational health services. There will be many post-traumatic stress syndromes after the corona crisis, due to the moral stress and high workload. I hope that there will be structural support from everyone and that it will not only depend on the largest hospitals. Finally, with regard to international solidarity, these are gestures that are long remembered. Diplomacy is a little concerned about that. You let it depend a bit on the similarities of individual hospitals. In other countries, however, the authorities have made a symbolic act. We still have a capacity of a thousand places on intensive care. It would be nice, should about 10 places be handed over to neighbouring countries that have a much harder time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u97	Mr President, I would like to return to the disagreement between Mr Creemers and the Minister on the recognition of COVID-19 as an occupational disease for self-employed nurses. On the website of Fedris, updated until today, April 16th, the self-employed nurses are still not in the list. The administration informed me that I had to submit this question through the Department of Social Affairs, although I thought I understood that occupational diseases were covered by the Department of Health. Madam Minister, perhaps you can replicate that and perhaps you can also provide correct information on the Fedris website, as self-employed nurses are not yet on that list.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u98	Mrs Farih, I will continue with the Members' replies, because I think that the questions that remain will not be dealt with until next week's committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u99	Mr President, I join a lot of colleagues who have expressed disappointment at the few answers they have received. Minister, in times of crisis management, we are waiting for up-to-date answers to our questions because things are changing every day. This morning, Mr Marius Gilbert said on Twitter that there were two epidemics: one in the community, which we managed to control, and one in the rest homes, which is not controlled. Today, only the number of deaths is known. I'm not at all reassured by what you said. You've remained very vague, and you haven't done any progress. For example, it is not known how many cases are suspected or documented in the 1,500 nursing homes or how many nursing homes are still healthy or how we will manage the situation. Boarders have not been visited since 13 March, but the VOCID-19 has been wreaking havoc on them. You have to take care of things and I am not reassured by your answer. You have also been very theoretical about the help hospitals need to provide. You have agreements, but we want to know exactly what is going on. You mentioned six intermediate structures put in place, that's the only number I've heard. That's good, but that's not enough for the 1,500 nursing homes and their 160,000 residents. If half is infected, we will need a lot more structures! Madam Minister, as far as protective equipment is concerned, I do not agree that you are hiding behind Mr. Backer. It is known that many patients are asymptomatic and the protective equipment delivered to treating physicians and nurses is largely inadequate. In all contact medical occupations – general practitioners, home nurses, psychiatric facilities or for the disabled – more protective equipment is needed. It's about public health! I can't accept answers that say everything's okay! This is absolutely not the case and people are very anxious.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u100	Mrs. Merckx, please close.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u101	Finally, Mr. De Maegd also referred to the criteria for reimbursement of the testing. So I don't think I'm the only one calling for this. As doctors, we need to do more tests. We can no longer work blind as you impose on us right now. That's not right!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u102	Madam Minister, thank you for the explanation. As expected, many questions have not been answered or have not been answered. Nor do I think that is feasible if questions are asked for two hours and you are allowed to answer for twenty minutes. I would therefore like to thank you for staying longer. You gave answers for about 45 minutes, despite the fact that you indicated that you had to participate at 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u103	If I may, I am with my left ear with you in the Chamber and with my right ear in the OCC with the Länder, where the situation in the residential care centres is one of the important points. I would like to do anything, but this will take a lot, two meetings at the same time. However, there was a clear agreement, Mr President. However, I will continue to work with two ears until the end of this committee meeting. Apparently, there is no agreement on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u104	That is why I would like to thank you once again, instead of joining me in the disappointment because not everything would have been answered. Above all, I remember that the intention is to get a correct picture of mortality rates and, more specifically, the excess mortality caused by corona. This seems very important to me, because only with the correct figures can we get a clear picture of the situation and see if the measures are effective. It also reassures me that you have indicated that all available hands are being used in care wherever there are needs. So nobody's gonna stand by and watch. As far as psychological aid is concerned, I think it is important that there is an offer of distance support and so on and that the existing possibilities at federal and regional level are sufficiently publicised.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u105	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply on the claims. I am pleased to note that you will be working in consultation in this area. I hope with you that these claims will indeed not be necessary. The lack of clarity about mouth masks and the question of whether or not they work for private individuals in ordinary society is a cause for concern. I did not receive any answers to those questions. Of course, people are curious about your opinion about the coincidence with a possible exit. I did not receive an answer to that question either. So I'll come back to it next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u106	Madam Minister, you yourself used the words about mental health care and the psychosocial impact: yes, (...) is big, there is a need for enlargement. Well, my appeal to you, Madam Secretary, is: do enlargement, with the support group, to address the psychosocial impact on our caregivers, but also the psychological care needed for our population in general. Colleagues mentioned the limitation of the pilot project. That pilot project needs to be expanded. We must have stronger and wider mental health care in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u107	Madam Minister, I know that you are very busy and I fully understand that because the priority must obviously be to move things forward in the rest homes. Thank you for your answers. I'm waiting for your written answers to come back to you. Let me stress one point: the testing guidelines must be clear. Minister De Backer has made it clear that the prescriber is free. This is not currently on the Sciensano site, which has made almost no changes to its guidelines. Doctors don't know which ones they have to follow. I repeat that it is particularly important that freedom in this area be left to prescribers. This is important for a number of people, even if they are asymptomatic. As far as masks are concerned, I plead for a generalisation of the wearing of masks, particularly in certain situations, as advocated by scientists, in order to maximise the barrier measures. I am thinking in particular of shops where there is a lot of contact. I would also like to commend the hospitals that have set up VOCID units for the elderly. It would be desirable for the federal government to promote the complementary development of such units. It's essential to support rest homes. You have drawn attention to the management of urgent non-COVID cases, with patients who consider that their situation is not urgent. In doing so, they do not go to the hospital or to their doctor and take the risk of developing more serious pathologies. I am very surprised that the number of strokes, infarctions, oncological diagnoses is significantly lower than in normal times. This still means that the situation is likely to be worrying. There is no doubt that it is necessary to expand and review the way in which doctors can now consult, or not. Mr President, if I may, I would like to have one last word. I think the government is putting a lot of energy into analyzing mortality. Deaths are here. Let us not forget that there is also a form of undermortality, today, compared to the figures expected in comparison with previous years. Containment causes, for example, a decrease in mortality – and this is so much better – related to polytrauma and road accidents in general. I would like to plead with you, Madam Minister, that energy should instead be devoted to saving lives, that everything should be done to deploy energy to rest homes. Let's support our staff. Let us also move forward on the premium for health care workers. I didn't get an answer from you on that. I plead for the government to move towards a solution to support more importantly and very concretely, with a bonus, the health care staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u108	Minister, as far as testing is concerned, you have referred a great deal to the answers that have already been provided to us by Minister De Backer. I regret that, because it does not finally allow us to carry out our parliamentary oversight function properly. If we ask you about this today, it is either because new elements have taken place in the meantime, or because we have not received an answer, or because the answers given to us do not match the reality of the field. With regard to the instructions for on-call medical stations, I also did not get an answer as to whether their weekly reopening could be generalized. This would be of great interest, especially in areas where there is a shortage of general practitioners. For visits to nursing and nursing homes, it is true that orders for protective equipment were made by the federal, but also by the Regions. However, it is now a matter of responding to a recommendation that has been made by the federal government, even though I know that the federated entities are represented on the National Security Council. As they will not be able to respond to this recommendation, it is important that the federal government assume its share of responsibility by ensuring the protection of residents through the wearing of the mask and the testing of visitors. Again, I did not get an answer to my suggestion. With regard to contraception and abortion, I fear that the measures will prove insufficient to enforce women's rights in terms of sexual and reproductive health. To do so, stronger provisions are needed. I am thinking of the free pill of the next day, at least in this period of confinement. This track must be dug. In addition, we know that the family planning centres are visited by an audience that is mostly disadvantaged. I will end with a shortage of medicines. I just wanted to make it clear that our questions, Minister, are not intended to scare the public. All we do is relay the concerns of the field. We want to ensure that citizens have the right to transparency. They have a right to it, and we want to see to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u109	Minister, this is a difficult exercise for all of us. Despite the few elements of the answer, I, too, remain on my hunger. About masks and protective equipment, we need to go back to the subject. The expectations of all health professionals must be met. On the issue of the supply of medicines, you are trying to appease the minds of Parliament today. We will of course read this press release of the AFMPS and the Absym. We will return to the subject, but I would still like to invite you, as part of your work in the National Security Council with the experts, to reflect. When there are people who are asymptomatic and have been tested, continue to let them work in nursing homes or in any institution, is that really how we are going to stem the spread of the virus? I do not understand the answers given so far. I believe that at some point it will be necessary to change policy in order to really fight with strength and discipline against coronavirus. I will return to the subject and thank you, however, for the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u110	So, Madam Secretary, we're done. The sitting did indeed end half an hour, but it was also 92 questions. It took a lot of time to set them up and take a lot of time to answer them. There are a lot of unanswered questions. I will discuss it with the other Members, but perhaps it would be good to start a second round of replies next Tuesday, hoping that there will not be 90 new questions, because of course we can always put the same question, as some people do, but we will continue to do so. I would like to hear the other Members on this, but I would like to thank you for your time, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u111	Mr President, I would like to say something. We see that several questions are being retabled, without taking the answer into account. These questions are then sent to the supercore, which is actually intellectually unfair if one has already received an answer. I am not saying that everyone does that all the time, but we can get them out and, if you like, we can also make statistics out of it. Maybe that's interesting, even for some self-reflection.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-17-55-commissie-ic148x.u112	What happens in the meetings of the super-core cabinet, I have no authority to do so. I would certainly like to thank you for the time you have given. You'll be back on Tuesday. I certainly have a long list of unanswered and partially answered questions. I will discuss it in order for the Minister to begin the next meeting with the answers. In any case, both ministers are present.
