ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u2	Madam Prime Minister, yesterday at the press conference, you gave some perspective to all those who want social contacts, to the cultural sector, to the cafes and to the restaurants. It was necessary, but you didn't say one thing. You have not said what support the catering industry can count on in the coming period. However, that is the most important question of a sector which has had to close the doors as one of the first, but which can restart as one of the last. Even that reboot doesn't go without a headache. The premiums are falling, while the income may be lower due to the distance rules. What about a party room or a small café without a terrace? Cafés and restaurants cannot be allowed to go bankrupt because they are allowed to open the doors again. Madam Prime Minister, the aid measures of the last few months have not prevented cafés and restaurants from being on the verge of bankruptcy. They are excited to start up again, but they are also afraid that if a strong government does not support them and invests in them, they will soon have to shut down permanently due to the restrictive measures. A strong government that makes quick and concrete decisions, that's what they're asking. The sp.a wants to participate in this. We have put on the table four concrete proposals: extend temporary unemployment, reduce the burden on permanent workers, get rid of the choke contracts of the breweries and ensure that a tax-free loan is possible for the catering industry. That's our plan. In this way we think that the catering industry can be well supported. I only have one question for you. What is your plan and when will you propose a specific package of measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u3	Madam Prime Minister, yesterday we received good news: at last we will be able to see each other again with more than ten people; at last we will be able to open up the catering business; finally social contact is allowed again and we are moving towards a normal situation. What I do not understand, however, is why you are still applying the cooperation ban. Why shouldn't actions be allowed to happen? Madam Prime Minister, yesterday you made good decisions: the possibility of seeing ten people, of reopening horeca establishments, of increasing social contacts. We can go to the shops, there's a lot of people on the streets to go shopping... but you keep the ban on protesting, you ban large gatherings. It's a little easy. The VOCID-19 should not be used as an alibi to muzzle the social challenge! And the boss doesn't wait. Have you read what Mr Pieter Timmermans is demanding in the press: an index jump, a stop to the bridge pension, yet again to attack wages? Privatisation of social security is requested by employers with the second pillar and the third pillar. Employers come with their agenda and we workers would not have the right to collective action. Do nurses have this right, Prime Minister? Of course they can take action! Of course, physical distancing must be respected, but actions can be taken. At VCST in Sint-Truiden, 171 jobs are lost. Do these workers have the right to act together? Sure, they should have that right. Does the young people who want to fight racism have the right to protest against racism today? They certainly do. I really do not understand, Madam Prime Minister, that you say that there is no problem with going to the shops, etc., but that we would not have the right to demonstrate. I therefore ask you to take a position. Yes, there is the right to social action and no, we are not going to muzzle it in the name of VOCID-19! The boss won't wait. We have the right to react.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u4	Mrs Verhelst is delayed. I'll move on to colleague Jan Brier's immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u5	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, most media agree that the coronateugels can be celebrated because the citizen has behaved responsibly and with dignity. For this reason, 200 spectators may also be invited to events from 1 July. This applies to both indoor and outdoor activities, but the sector does not understand this. We can walk and shop on the dike with thousands of people and go to animal and amusement parks with thousands of people. We're gonna have 600 exams in a closed hall. Coming weekend we are entitled to argue against racism in Antwerp and Brussels, but only 200 people are allowed to attend an open air concert, with fixed chairs and with a distance of one and a half metres. Meanwhile, we notice that 1,000 visitors are allowed in Germany and Spain. For the organizers it is clear: the current scenario is a strangle scenario, unless you make it clear when they can expand. The festival and event organizers are grateful to our Parliament for the support measures, but today they need an economic model for the future. Madam Prime Minister, what is the reason for the restriction to 200 spectators for outdoor concerts? When will the Memorial Van Damme of the National Security Council, for example, hear that more than 200 athletics enthusiasts are allowed in the Heysel Stadium? Can the Crisis Centre consult with the sector again to look at this measure? How will the demonstrations be managed next weekend?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u6	Prime Minister, for some time now, news on the health front has become increasingly reassuring. However, let us not be mistaken: the virus is still there. And even if we've had a sense of freedom since yesterday, we'll have to keep in mind the caution we need. As we said a few weeks ago, this serious health crisis must not turn into an economic crisis. In parallel with the fight against VOCID-19, there is therefore an urgent need for an economic recovery plan. Without recovery, families, independents, restaurateurs, businesses, the cultural sector: all these economic actors affected by the crisis may not recover. One of the major challenges, however, is the sustainability of the players in this sector, with jobs being safeguarded in the background. This revival is vital and, above all, urgent. It must be large-scale in order to overcome the difficulties. Two weeks ago, my group was firing the alarm bell. Recovery is necessary immediately, and certainly at the time of the reopening of all these sectors of activity. On Monday, however, there will be an important shift in the deconfinement, particularly for the Horeca. In the face of all useful sanitary precautions, some warn that a reopening is complex or will have to wait. In the face of fears and demands, we must take sectoral aid measures, such as the reduction of VAT in Horeca, for example. Madam Prime Minister, we are working together, that is true; but then, let us work well, and above all, quickly. Could you then give us a precise agenda for the work on drawing up the various recovery plans? What measures are on the table and can be implemented quickly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u7	Madam Prime Minister, I welcome the measures taken by the National Security Council. I would like to focus less on how and when we want to proceed, no matter how right these questions are, but on the feasibility of the measures. Citizens are aware of the problems that arise today and want to subject themselves to the rules, but these rules must be logical and manageable. Last week we saw a lot of unrest about the horror list that would accompany the opening of the catering industry. The cafes and restaurants did not open, they had to turn into cafeterias in East Block style. Fortunately, there has been an evolution, so that one can open in normal circumstances. One can now with friends at café and not Kafka. That was the fear that lived with many operators last week. I am very happy about that. I would ask you to bear in mind the feasibility of rules in the future. Ask citizens to behave maturely, but also consider citizens to be adult people who can comply with rules if they are somewhat readable. Madam Prime Minister, will the controls be based on clear regulations and not fall into pest inspections? I am also very pleased that we are going back to normality and that anything that is not prohibited and explicitly on a list is allowed. Can you confirm that it is quite clear that anything that is not prohibited is allowed, as it should be in a normal rule of law?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u8	Madam Prime Minister, the corona crisis has deeply affected our society, particularly economically. In the first phase, bazookas were rightly brought up to stabilise the economy. However, as we come out of the lockdown, the economic consequences will become even stronger. Our country has faced the greatest challenge since the Second World War, when it laid the foundations for years of economic growth. Now we have to make even more crucial choices to ensure economic growth in the future. After all, there is no logical reconstruction this time as in a post-war period. Developing a well-considered recovery plan that saves our economy and creates jobs is the task, without unnecessary intervention as a government in economic law. That plan has to step away from the expensive bazookas of the early stages. Companies that were already unhealthy before the crisis are now impossible to keep alive with taxpayers' money. We can no longer support the stagnation of the economy; it is time for tailor-made work. On the left I hear all kinds of recipes from the past, for example extending bridge pensions and banning dismissals. However, as a liberal, I prefer to look at an affordable and viable future. Before the crisis, productivity growth in Belgium was too low. Let us use this relance to increase productivity in our country, not by writing off people, but by supporting lifelong learning. Only investments that increase productivity will earn themselves back and reduce our debt rate. Some of them do not even have to cost the State anything, for example the introduction of the 5G network. I'll come to my questions. Is sufficient care being taken to ensure that the measures provide for a relance rather than a standstill? Is there a check on whether there are no overlaps with the Länder? Is there any evidence that the measures are fraud-proof? How does that happen? Are abuses being corrected by companies, but certainly by workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u9	Madam Prime Minister, the fact that there are fewer and fewer questions indicates that it is heading in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u10	Mr President, several sectors are affected by the resumption of activity under Phase 3. The main sectors are the Horeca, Culture and Sport sectors. I will not repeat all the decisions that were detailed yesterday, but I will dwell on the more specific points that are the subject of questions. As I said yesterday, the Horeca sector will be able to resume on 8 June with some exceptions. A protocol negotiated with industry representatives has been put in place to enable restarting while ensuring the safety of staff and clients. This protocol is included in a good practice guide that was published today. It is true that, in relation to the initial protocol, we have taken into account practicality in the field. We have kept the rules friendly enough to ensure that the desire to go to the restaurant persists, while still protecting the health of our fellow citizens, which remains our first duty. We are aware that the adjustments requested will require an effort on the part of the sector. We hope that the rules in force will not affect the pleasure of visiting these institutions. However, respecting these measures is fundamental to the health of our citizens, our clients and those who work there. However, I am pleased to hear that, according to a survey conducted by Edenred, eight out of ten Belgians intend to return to a café or restaurant as soon as they are reopened. I hope I'm part of it, too. I'm still looking for who will be part of my enlarged bubble but I'm sure I'll be in one of those places on Monday, if only as a support. I'll make a reservation. Thanks for the tip. However, I cannot invite everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u11	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u12	I can't invite everyone. You're not part of my enlarged bubble, Mr. Laaouej! Not yet, at least – with all due respect, of course, and the friendship I have with you. As far as the cultural sector is concerned, the first rules concern the need to respect the security distance between people. It was, of course, important to set a limit to prevent too many people coming to the same place at the same time. This also has to do with the operator's capacity to organise the arrival and departure of the people in a safe way. It is also true that we must always ensure that the various cultural organisations that can reopen are given a chance to survive the crisis. It should also be clear that the limit of 200 people, which applies from 1 July, applies to all activities that require an audience. I heard the question about the rallies that I find a little – if I may – huge. To come here to explain that we would use the crisis of the VOCID-19 and the misfortunes it has caused for our society in order to avoid social protest, while social consultation exists fully, it is simply enormous and unworthy. The gatherings you are talking about can bring together up to thousands of people who can't protect themselves enough and who, if they were to be contaminated at some point, couldn't turn around for testing and tracing when we know very well that they are fundamental. If it is the right to express one's feeling – which I can understand – it is also the respect of the healthcare staff who must be avoided from having to deal with a new wave. For you who claim to defend him, this element must also weigh in the balance. As far as comparisons are concerned, and to go back to the famous question of the 200 people, I would like to remind you that in Luxembourg the number of people is limited to 30 for cultural gatherings and that it will rise to 100 on 1 July. Of course, comparisons can be made with more favourable figures, but we can also look around. It can be seen that the situation is similar in the Netherlands since the number of people is now limited to 30; it will rise to 100 next time. In any case, care must always be taken when making comparisons. Indeed, the decisions taken are the result of the epidemiological situation, but also of a desire for balance and the strategies carried out by each country. There must always be control. Without control, there are no rules. However, it is also true that excessive control is not necessary. That is why we must amend the ministerial decision. After that, the rules will be very clearly defined. Phase 3 of yesterday's phasing-out plan is important. A lot of people have been waiting for it. We are aware that the coming weeks can still be difficult for those who have had to stop their activity because of the containment measures. We also know that, even now that people are allowed to reopen their case, the conditions imposed on them will have an impact on their business figures. This is the case for the catering industry and for the cultural and event sectors, for example, but also for those sectors which were already able to resume their activities. In order to support the sectors that have come to a standstill, we have already approved, as you know, two parts of the federal plan for social and economic protection. The first two parts contain measures which apply to all sectors and to all, and which thus also benefit the catering sector, such as the right of bridging, temporary unemployment or deferred payment. A third component was prepared by the government and presented to the ten party presidents associated with the special powers. It consists of three parts: measures already in force which can be extended, e.g. temporary unemployment until 31 August, cross-cutting measures, e.g. occupational discount reductions for enterprises aimed at encouraging the return to work of temporary unemployed persons, and measures targeted at the most affected sectors. Among the new sectoral measures, some are in fact directly targeting the horeca sector, which we know has been particularly affected, even if it is not the only one. I will mention the reduction of VAT from 12 % to 6 % on catering services and from 21 % to 6 % on non-alcoholic beverages, the increase of the deductibility to 100 % of restaurant costs or a gateway fee focused on the coerced sectors, including Horeca. These measures were approved by the government last week, but they still need to be discussed with the ten parties in order to achieve the widest possible majority in this Parliament. It is in this Parliament that these discussions will take place. These discussions must first be framed and we have a rendezvous this Saturday with the party presidents who support this government so that we can land as quickly as possible with a support plan. I would like to point out that, as far as recovery is concerned, the objective remains to be able to discuss all this within the framework of the formation of a government that would benefit from a majority in the House, which I call my wishes, over and over again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u13	Madam Prime Minister, unfortunately I have not heard any concrete timing when that decision can be taken. However, I would urge you to do this quickly before Monday's reboot. It would be very unfortunate if the enthusiasm in all those catering stores at the start-up were overshadowed by even more concerns about the financial aspect. The catering sector is very diverse and requires many different targeted measures. We are prepared to work together on this, as there are thousands of jobs at stake in this sector. Its importance is incredibly great. It is therefore not possible for ministers to announce measures as if they had been decided and approved, and that is not the case at all. The debate will have to continue in Parliament. We will have to take the lead here in a concrete, fully approved package of aid measures for the catering sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u14	Madam Prime Minister, you are talking about social consultation, but I do not see it. Look at this boss! At Brussels Airlines 1,000 people are outside, at VCST Sint-Truiden 171 jobs are missing. Meanwhile, Mr Timmermans comes from the VBO with old-fashioned measures, such as an index jump. The index jump is 30 years old. That's old-fashioned, just not to do it! For 30 or 40 years they have been complaining about the abolition of the bridge pension. Old-fashioned! How is that possible? For 50 years they have been coming to an end with the expansion of night work. Such old-fashioned measures, such aggression against the workers! In this context, 100 people are allowed in a church, 150 in the Colruyt or Aldi. The shopping streets are full of people on Saturday afternoon and so much the better. And we wouldn't allow the demonstration by taking precautions? Look at the white coats! They were the first, Madam Prime Minister, to take this right that you did not give them. The hedge of dishonor that they made is a demonstration. They were right to do so. In advocating distancing, yes, we have the right to protest and it would be time to disband democracy in Belgium rather than confine it!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u15	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. You also know that the organisers think first and foremost about people's health, that must be clear. You also know that there is no sector where there is as good guidance for public flows as there is in that sector. So if they ask for a distinction between the Mint, Bozar and Prince National or the Lotto Arena, then I think we should listen to that and see with them how they can make real work of their future as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u16	I am pleased to hear from you, Madam Prime Minister, about the deductibility of restaurant fees, the reduction in the VAT rate. These are measures that we already proposed to you at the end of April. We are satisfied with that. As I said earlier, we also insist on rapid support and emergency measures for the sectors that have been hardest hit: the Horeca, the bars, the hotels, the restaurants that are ultimately the symbol of the joy of living in Belgium – but also the event sector, the cultural sector, the artists and all the workers of the shadow. We need a quick, fast recovery plan. Support for the most affected sectors is needed to limit bankruptcies and preserve employment. Premium mechanisms are needed to stimulate domestic demand, accelerate recovery and avoid the poverty trap. Finally, a massive investment plan is needed to make this crisis an opportunity to accelerate the ecological and social transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u17	Madam Prime Minister, I am also very pleased that we will finally be able to cross borders on 15 June. That's important to a lot of people. I'd like to quote two lessons that we have to take with us. Firstly, we need to ensure that people know what rules they have to comply with before we can check that they comply with those rules. We owe transparency and clarity to them. Secondly, when we rely on expert expertise in the measures, we must do so as widely as possible. This means that we also involve experts who know what it is, for example, to run a business in the full breadth of human society, and that we also have an ear for it. I would like to call on everyone to book in a café and restaurant as soon as possible and to make a useful contribution to restarting the economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u18	Madam Prime Minister, I like the fact that we are all concerned about the catering industry. That is right, because we are very anxious for it, but there are sectors that are still waiting for reopening in the light. As a representative of the people, I hear thanks, but also a great deal of annoyance about too generous measures for companies and workers, who know that it is not true. They all know the money isn't there. People are really not naive and know that such a policy comes back as a boomerang. Let us please consider this carefully and watch over the right measures. We are obliged to do so as a responsible government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u19	The following questions deal with racism and the death of George Floyd. As you know, I am very close to this issue, and I would like to quote an introduction to the debate by Elie Wiesel: 'No race is incriminating, no faith is inferior. All collective judgements about people are wrong. Only racists do that."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u20	Madam Prime Minister, "I can't breathe", "Ik kan niet meer ademen", "I can't breathe anymore". These last words are those of George Floyd, who died because of a knee left on his carotid for long minutes. These words have become the symbol of racist police violence in the United States, a police violence that revolts us and which seems, on the contrary, to stimulate the American president – probably for electoral purposes. We are concerned about these facts. However, let us not be blind: we cannot move from events across the Atlantic without looking at our own society. Let us then cross the ocean to observe the situation in Europe and, in particular, in Belgium. Racism is also making progress: in parliaments, on social networks, through discrimination in housing or on the labour market. Prime Minister, here too, people are suffocating. Should we not let those young people who are subjected to racist discrimination on a daily basis when applying for work, looking for an apartment, being checked on the street or facing the release of racist speech on social networks, as Unia points out? This morning, the director of an AMO in Anderlecht explained that young people were systematically sent back to their social background and stuck in a determination. Should it not, in the end, be allowed to breathe the migrants, who, according to a report by Médecins du Monde, would be subjected to serious police violence? Similarly, should we not let the undocumented people, who have been denied and handed over to their fate since the beginning of the crisis, be allowed to breathe into society, while they participate economically and socially? Shouldn't it also be allowed to breathe those police officers and firefighters who are also discriminated against on the basis of their origins in their work? Yes, racism is also present at home: in our administrations and in public services, as well as on social networks. It is, of course, a minority, but its extension is too large for us to imagine being in the presence of isolated cases and, therefore, admitting some kind of impunity. Prime Minister, my question is simple. Belgium has been committed to deploying a genuine interparliamentary action plan against racism for 20 years. Nothing's been done for 20 years! So what action are you going to take to finally launch this interparliamentary plan against racism in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u21	Mr President, Minister, we have all seen the footage of that black man who fought for his life in America for 8.5 minutes. The words I can't breathe have gone around the world millions of times. It is clear that in the United States, our great democratic ally, 150 years after slavery, black people are still being murdered on the streets. Worse, by the police. Madam Secretary, I'm looking at you. I am not sure, but I hope you have already called on the United States ambassador to make it clear that we cannot tolerate such things from our allies. Let us clearly address an official letter to the United Nations, in which we strongly condemn violence against black people. That should happen. My colleague has just said: it is not just happening in America. Here we are confronted with racism on a daily basis. Thirty years ago, I took my first steps in the nightlife world. I'm looking at a lot of people my age right now. In some discotheques there were signs with "dogs and strangers not allowed," distributed by a political party here in the hemisphere, slightly changed name, but equally racist. Anyway, that aside. We're 30 years later, the sign's gone, but the problems are still there. If I'm going out with my Muslim friends, chances are I'll be denied access to a discotheque. Day after day. In 2001, Belgium signed the promise to draw up an action plan, as did many other European countries. There had to be a lot of clear things in it, including the practical tests at interim agencies and on the rental market. Last name, religion or colour still matter whether one is eligible for a job or for a rental house. Madam Secretary, it is clear: where is this plan 19 years later? When are we really gonna start doing these practical tests?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that we are all so indignant about the images from the States we have seen. On the one hand, I am pleased with that. On the other hand, perhaps we should be ashamed rather than outraged. Of course it is all too easy to point to the States and say: that strange country with that strange president, with his aggression and his racism. But perhaps there are more parallels between the States and Belgium than we really want to admit. Yes, we live in a country where, legally speaking, everyone is equal. But how equal are we in practice? That's the question. Well, I'll tell you: not. It's very clear. One is a bit more equal than the other, they say funny. But for a lot of people, it's not a joke. My colleagues have just mentioned it: even today many people are testifying clearly to the fact that my skin colour determines whether or not I can enter a discotheque, hinders my last name from being invited to a job interview or that I can rent a house. An exotic first name like Zelfa, a beautiful name, is enough to get a whole bunch of shit on social media. I've been thinking a lot about whether I'd quote this, but I'll do it anyway. You must know what some people dare to write: "Muslim whore, brown, I kick your ass, you are morally retarded with your Islam." So, no, we don't live in the States. Most policemen here do their job well and reliably. But even here, people don't get the same opportunities, just because they're different. Don't bring up migration problems and asylum seekers and so on, because it's mostly about people who have been born here or who have been here for generations. We, privileged people, are then outraged by that statue from the States. Well, we should be ashamed to let that happen for so long. It is time to take credit for the fight against racism, against discrimination. And, uh, I'm gonna break it down anyway, including sexism. Madam Prime Minister, I understand that interfederal action plans are being drawn up against racism and that there is a horizontal equal opportunities plan, that an interministerial meeting is planned. I'm sure that's all very ambitious, but can you explain to this simple soul exactly what will happen? How will we ensure that not just a plan is drawn up on paper, but that action can also be taken quickly and effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u23	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the emotion triggered in the United States by the assassination of George Floyd provokes a global reaction and emotion. Mobilizations against institutionalized racism bring together thousands of people around the world despite the health situation. Yes, racism still kills today. He kills in the United States, he also kills in France, as the case of Adama Traoré painfully recalls. But when it does not kill, it destroys lives insidiously by excluding, discounting, denying humanity hundreds, thousands, millions of citizens around the world. The emotion, I said, is strong. But this emotion, this indignation at facts that occur in the distance, is futile if it does not force us to question ourselves about our own country. Yes, here too, racism affects thousands of men and women. He's present, too. There are fires in reception centres for asylum seekers; men of fire allow themselves unacceptable statements; tragic events bereavement some neighbourhoods; jobs are still closed for men and women because of their real or supposed origin. Since 2001, the country has been awaiting the Action Plan against Racism. Last February, the Prime Minister, you announced the establishment of an interdepartmental conference dedicated to this issue. In concrete terms, what measures are being taken today to combat racism? What legislative progress is on the agenda? What message do you send to our fellow citizens who are experiencing these difficulties, these sufferings on a daily basis? From a more land-to-earth point of view, what are you proposing to those who wish today to show their support for the victims of racism in the world and in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u24	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, "Daddy, what is a brown monkey?" is a question that is asked here and now by a son to his father, not in America, but here in Belgium, not in 1950, but in 2020. That is the harsh reality we are experiencing today. What do you have to do as a father to answer such a question? Racism is still very strong in our country too. Unfortunately, many other examples are not fake news, as some claim. It's a story of all of us. I think it is very hopeful that in the demonstrations in America there are also white people. In our country too, the people who are sick of racism are very diverse. However, ladies and gentlemen, let us be honest: we have not improved in recent years. The we-side-thinking has increased. The language has become rude, especially on social media. The brutality of society has increased. I'm afraid the silence is too. We must put an end to this now. We must recognise and condemn racism. It won't stop by itself. I therefore appeal to everyone to look into their own bosom. Politics must also intervene. There must be a clear political signal with actions. Madam Prime Minister, the government has introduced practical tests, but they are far too complicated and they are not working. Are you prepared to relax that instrument, which helps? Negotiations on a national plan against racism are under way. What initiatives will your government put on the table?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u25	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, "black live matter"! Today, these words are no longer those of the African-American movement that is mobilizing against the violence and racism that are systemic towards blacks in the United States in recent years and, in particular, since the murder of George Floyd. These words have become those of a national movement that transcends ethnic, generational or political divisions. This movement is becoming to racism what the MeToo movement is today to sexism, a universal movement, a universal message. Today, black people no longer walk alone to demand respect and protection. They now walk with white people. They walk alongside all the Democrats because we are all ultimately victims of this racism that is destructive to our social peace. On 23 January, Madam Prime Minister, we asked you precisely about your government's role in our fight against racism and hatred, because if racism is not as structural in Belgium as it is in the United States, it is nevertheless present. This is evidenced by the numerous facts reported to Unia, which are increasing year by year in an inquisitive way. You then had very strong words reminding us that racism was not an opinion but an offence and that it was our common enemy, except that six months later, the inter-federal plan of action against racism is still not there and remains a pious wish. An unprecedented health crisis has gone through this. This is no excuse, however, because this crisis has had the effect of reinforcing the inequalities, angers and fears that make up this fertile ground for racism. Madam Prime Minister, my questions are consistent with those of my colleagues and are fundamental. When will Belgium finally have this action plan against racism and with what timetable? Will this plan include strong measures also against the extreme right that feeds this racism? Will you, like what has been done by the federated entities, commit yourself to concrete actions against racism pending this plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u26	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, we have all been deeply moved and shocked by these terrible, ignoble, frightening images from the United States: an American policeman who, through abuse of authority, inhumanity and primary racism, stifles the person he is questioning, his knee on the carotid for 8 minutes and 46 seconds, all under the complicit gaze of his colleagues. These are unbearable images. George Floyd on the ground facing the ground, who does not pose any threat to public authority, pleads and pleads for his life, until he gives his last breath. What, ladies and gentlemen, is this ignorance, this intolerance that springs from I do not know what obscurantist base to flout and thus despise the essential values of our human condition? What is this vision of the mind that a man in 2020 would have the right to life or death on his fellow man because his skin color is darker? Prime Minister, these images have aroused a wave of indignation around the world. Everywhere, voices are raised to denounce a racism that has, alas, become too ordinary. Diana Floyd, the victim's six-year-old daughter, said yesterday, "My dad changed the world." Can we believe in this society where racism, intolerance and fear of the other divide, like an invasive cancer that continues to progress, from relapse to relapse, without being able to find a real cure? Madam Prime Minister, through this speech, I would like first of all to pay tribute, on my behalf and on behalf of my political group, to George Floyd and to all the other victims of these infamous misdeeds in the United States, in the world and, unfortunately, also in Belgium. I hear that an event is taking place on Sunday in Brussels, bringing together thousands of people via the Internet. In these times of crisis at the VOCID-19, Madam Prime Minister, how can we express our solidarity without jeopardizing the health of each other? Can you remind us in practice of the tools we have in Belgium to combat this scourge?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u27	Madam Prime Minister, racism is everywhere and is on the rise. That is not a politically correct statement, but the daily reality for people who are not allowed to rent a home on the basis of their skin color and for people who, because they have a strange sounding last name, have up to 46 % more chance of not being invited to a job interview. That is what most of us may never really experience here, but what too many people are the daily imaginary knee on their trachea, against which they must resist. Colleagues, our political climate contributes to this. When, last summer, weeks before the Flemish Government was formed, negotiations were held with the Flemish Interest, when an organization such as Voka dared to say complexly that a majority and a coalition with a party that daily stirs up hatred is legitimate, I say to the democratic colleagues here today that we should never let that bar slide. Madam Prime Minister, my first question to you is very simple. Do you want to recognise explicitly that structural racism is embedded in our society and our institutions? Madam Prime Minister, it pains me as a representative of the people to see that there is so much activism on the streets and that there are so many organisations that are committed, but that the political promises have not been fulfilled so far for 20 years. So I will not ask what you will do, like the others, but when you will do it. Can you put a deadline on the inter-federal action plan? Finally, you and I are privileged. We may never experience the pain of victims of racism. That does not alter the fact that we have to fight it on a daily basis. More than that, being against racism is not enough. We need to speak out. Madam Prime Minister, I would therefore ask you, as a fellow citizen and as a figurehead of our country, to express your opinion internationally, and to indicate that Belgium is on the side of the victims. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u28	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, 'We can't breathe' is the slogan of the massive protests in the United States. The African-American population is in respiratory distress due to racism. President Trump's reaction is also breathtaking. He holds his one hand on the Bible and throws the other oil on the fire. His law-and-order policy suffocates the population. Trump puts his knee in the neck of anyone who disagrees with him. Let us not be naive, even in Belgium there is still a lot of open and hidden racism. Racism has been humiliated every day. Unia today has 1,000 cases of racism under discussion. This figure has increased by 50% over the last five years. Women no longer dare to take the bus because of racist statements and children are being called a brown monkey. Mandela stated that no one is born to hate a person of another color. Teach people to hate. When people learn to hate, they have to learn to love again. That's our assignment. We must never tolerate hatred in our society. You already announced a plan following the Bilzen riots. There would be an Inter-Ministerial Conference with an inter-federal action plan, with a plan at all levels of government. We've been waiting 19 years for that since the Durban, South Africa conference. It's about time we delivered a plan. My question is, therefore, what is the deadline for delivery of this plan? At the international level, Justin Trudeau responded appropriately by keeping his mouth shut. The High Representative of the European Union, Josep Borrell, condemned the abuse of power in the United States, but meanwhile expressed his concern about the use of violence against demonstrators. How will Belgium react and express its concerns towards the United States? I want to insist on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u29	Mr President, I said yesterday, after the National Security Council, that I know how emotional the current situation in the United States is. George Floyd's last words resonate in each of us. They arouse emotion, indignation, anger and even revolt. George Floyd, in spite of himself, became a symbol of the fight against racism, but also, more broadly, of the fight against violence and hatred of the other. The current demonstrations in the United States have given rise to other expressions of solidarity throughout the world, and also in Belgium. I share this fierce will to continue, even more so, to combat racism and violence in all their forms, which are unfortunately still present throughout the world. You are right: in Belgium too. I would like to remind you that we in Belgium have a considerable arsenal to protect us from racism. For several years now, our country has had a clear legal framework to combat racism and discrimination. These aspects are governed by separate laws. People who consider themselves victims are encouraged to complain. In particular, as an independent public institution that combats discrimination and promotes equal opportunities, Unia also plays a role in combating discrimination or racism by and against the police, because, yes, victims of racism are everywhere. Unia does so, inter alia, by advising and guiding people who are discriminated against and by training police officers in anti-discrimination legislation. In addition to the usual legal means, victims may lodge a complaint with the specific police control body, the P Committee, the Internal Audit Service or the General Inspection. I announced here in January the establishment of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Combating Racism in response to the incidents in Bilzen and De Panne. This conference actually took place after the adoption of the Consultation Committee on 19 February, i.e. just before the corona crisis. The main objective of this Inter-Ministerial Conference is to promote coordination between the different policy levels of initiatives taken in the fight against racism in the broad sense. It is essential to implement a coordinated inter-federal policy to ensure that what we are doing has real effect. This forum can also serve as a consultative body for the preparation of the future national anti-racism plan, which is already being developed. Mrs Kitir's proposals can certainly also be examined there. Initiatives can also be taken here in this House. The COVID-19 crisis has brought the process to a halt. The representatives of the federal government and the state governments in the Consultation Committee should now be appointed. The aim is to complete all the steps as quickly as possible so that they can be organized with Mrs Muylle. I know that some people would like to be able to mobilize in Belgium in response to recent events. I have already called yesterday on the Belgians who would like to demonstrate to take into account the consequences that such gatherings can have on the spread of the epidemic, and therefore on the whole population. According to the latest information available to me, it seems that more than 5,000 people are planning to mobilize on Sunday. I also understand that the mayor of Brussels, Mr Close, is in discussion with the organisers. I sincerely hope that he will find with them an alternative to a demonstration that would not only be contrary to the decisions that have been taken to protect the population from coronavirus – so there is no question of muzzling it – but would also put its participants at great risk. Moreover, as I said, there is also respect for the health care staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u30	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I was delighted to hear your emotion that we all share here, but also your indignation. You explained that the VOCID crisis had suspended a whole series of initiatives. This crisis must now allow us to remobilize. Unfortunately, it has been found that people who have remained confined to families in 70 m2 apartments sometimes come from immigration. The VOCID crisis has also been an opportunity to see that the populations affected by racism have been more exposed to this disease than others. Moreover, if emotion is justified, it must be quickly overcome in order to propose solutions, as is the case with the Ecolo-Groen Group, which has proposals to make, in addition to the establishment of the inter-federal plan. Random tests, particularly on discrimination in job search, are, in my opinion, important. Combating racism on the Internet must also be a priority. In addition, there is a need to reflect – and this is a difficult debate in Belgium – on certain folklores that may have an impact on some people. We will soon celebrate the 60th anniversary of independence (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u31	Madam Secretary, fortunately there are not only racists in America and we see hundreds of thousands of people on the streets against racist policy. However, they are stuck with a president who does not want to tackle racism, but the protesters. He wants to use the army to shoot at his own people. That's the most outrageous thing. His master plan is to make antifascists illegal. Madam Minister, you will not be able to do much about this in America, but I am concerned, because here too we are dealing with a political party that stirs up racial hatred. Let's be honest, if Trump says he wants to shoot his people, then Mr Van Grieken will only encourage that on Twitter. If Trump says he wants to make anti-fascists illegal, then the Flemish interest will also clarify and encourage that. Madam Minister, racism is not an idea, racism is a crime and must be tackled hard, down to its roots. We beg you that loudly (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u32	Madam Prime Minister, you say that politics must and will do its job against structural racism. However, I would like to say something else that I think is mega-important. Not only the government will be able to solve this. It's all too easy for all of us to be indignant and even embarrassed. Racism, discrimination and also sexism are very deeply rooted in our society, and we must all act against it: you, I, politicians, all people, everyone who sits at home watching. If you're reading something that's racist, respond to it. Block those people. Do you hear anything, even if it's your uncle, your aunt or a colleague, respond to it? Don't just let it happen. This is not the struggle of people with a certain color against the rest of the world. This is the fight of all of us against racism. Prove that this isn't being taken anymore, that racism can't be taken anymore. Hate against Jews, hate against Holebi's...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u33	You're gonna have to finish up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u34	Let us just react violently to that. Finally, everyone says that there is a party here (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u35	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your comments. Yes, together, we can act. We must say no to racism, no to xenophobia, no to sexism and all hate behaviour. We have a duty to do so at the level of government and our assembly. We have the power to take strong texts that will guarantee freedom for everyone to live who he is and to be what he wants to be. We must do this because racism is not unique to Uncle Trump's America. Racism is here, vicious, insidious, in everyday life, through heavy jokes, the behaviour of some fellow citizens, hate speech, populist speech, but also, sometimes, political speech by some. We have to do this, otherwise our neighbour, our brother, our spouse, perhaps even ourselves, will no longer have the freedom to breathe tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u36	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, you gave a list of the legal possibilities that exist today in our country. That's good. However, you acknowledge with us that this is not enough. More needs to be done, this debate shows that. The sp.a has not been idle in this area. I tabled a proposal last year to make the practical tests more flexible. I am glad that there will be room for discussion in the forthcoming negotiations. This is a story of all of us. Politics must send a clear signal, but each of us, as the previous speaker said, must also look into our own minds. Every pebble we shift contributes to the greater whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u37	Madam Prime Minister, I thank you for your strong words and for your commitment, of which I have never doubted. I am relieved to hear that the Inter-Ministerial Conference against Racism will be able to be revived, but I must regret that every time, it is necessary to wait for drama to occur in order to be able to act, when Belgium has been obliged to respect its international commitments in the fight against racism for almost 20 years. I must also remind you, once again, because I have not received any answer to this, that we will fight racism effectively only if this fight is also accompanied by a fight against the far right which, precisely, galvanizes the fears, angers and hatred of the other, both on social networks and in public space. For the past ten days, citizens around the world have been mobilizing to cry out their indignation, to demand strong acts against racism from their leaders. It is now up to us to work together, Parliament and government, to meet these more than legitimate expectations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u38	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I was saying: racism is cancer of ignorance, cancer of intolerance, of fear of the other. He goes all over our society, on our streets, on social networks. If your color is darker, baseless, it's harder to find a place to stay, a job. But in fact, racism, intolerance does not have a colour. See Asians, victims of racism in this period of the VOCID-19 pandemic. See this woman insulted in the Brussels metro because dressed in the west. See that policeman called white dirty. Look at these anti-Semitic acts. Racism, I would even say racism, we must denounce it, but we must also combat it. For a just fight, ladies and gentlemen, an adequate response is needed, and you have given it, Madam Prime Minister, through the interministerial conference that will be held in the future, and in the immediate future you are right, with good reason, to keep it, without senseless assembly in our streets, in disregard of the health of all, in contempt of the health care staff who fear a second wave. Colleagues, skin colour is a matter of pigmentation. It's a matter of sunshine. I solemnly say this by looking into the eyes of the representative, leader of the far right in Belgium: in Belgium, ma'am, the sun shines for everyone!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u39	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your indignation and sympathy, which you share with most of the parties here in the hemisphere. I understand what you're saying about the crisis that put the approach on hold. However, I would ask you to take action instead of words. I ask you to act as effectively as you have dealt with the COVID crisis, because this is also a crisis. How many generations have to be treated differently? How many generations still have to be denied basic rights? Racism is a crime. The anger that resounds here in Parliament, on social media and in the streets, must be transformed into change. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to address you all. Most of the parties have spoken out. Colleagues of N-VA, take sides. Soon, a question from your party about an asylum centre will be on the agenda, but we cannot hear you in this debate. This is a democratic debate. Pick your side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u40	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. We have a plan against homophobia, a plan against sexism and a plan against violence against women. It is good that you now also have an IMC where an inter-federal plan against racism is being built. That is very important, because a plan mobilises the whole of society. We need to tackle this on a number of lines: work, housing, sport, culture, social media. Everywhere people are discriminated against, there must be a strong plan. You don't have to wait too long. It would be good if a report were to be delivered this year, almost 20 years after the Durban Conference. As Mandela said, we must learn to love each other again. It should not only be about repression, but also about awareness-raising and education. We all have to work on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, I have tried to reach Minister None, but that is not possible for the time being. Minister De Block is present in good time and there are questions for her on the agenda. With your permission, I propose that we now deal with the questions to Minister De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u42	Madam Secretary, let me recapitulate. On 25 October last year, the Bilzenaar in my city learned through the newspaper that you have decided to open an asylum centre in the district of Grote-Sprowen. These are 170 places, on a small surface, without outdoor space, for adults and children, in a small village community. Bad decision, consternation everywhere. I felt sorry for you, Madam Secretary. In cities and municipalities with strong local leadership people will kick you out of the wind. They go on the spot, inform, sensitize and seek support. But what does your partymate, the future mayor of Bilzen, do? It's crawling under a rock. It opens its umbrella and points to you, Madam Secretary. For a month we had to wait for information from the Red Cross. For a month, the displeasure brews. What happened after that is widely known. That was a great shame, Mrs Soors, and I would like to repeat it again. Madam Secretary, I thought we learned from that. What do I see, however, when I question you in committee about the cooperation agreement between Fedasil and the Red Cross? You say twice that it exists. When I ask you to look at it, I don't get an answer. You're just ignoring me. I am referring to Fedasil and I am basing myself on the law on public access to administration. I request the document and Fedasil tells me that there is no agreement at the moment. Madam Secretary, pour ready wine. Tell the residents of Grote-Spouwen if there is an agreement on the operation of that asylum centre, yes or no. That's a very simple question. If there is, I'd like to see them. Does that center open now, yes or no? Quietly, we like to know when.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u43	Mr Raskin, as you said, the asylum centre in Bilzen, which was actually ready for entry into service, was on fire in an inexplicable way. That was a real act of intolerance: not only the fire, but also the slogans and comments that were filmed and cast on the social media, I will not repeat here. This was immediately condemned in the hemisphere, both by the Prime Minister and by myself. There was a fairly large consensus that this is not possible. My call for unconditional withdrawal from such acts was therefore unanimously shared and I think that would still be the case today. There was an agreement. I do not know how else the asylum centre could have been set up and how else the Red Cross would have contacted schools and other stakeholders in Bilzen. The damage to the building after the arson was considerable. There's been an investigation into how the building caught fire. The owner, who is actually the biggest victim of the story, is planning for the reconstruction and renovation, but they have been delayed by the corona crisis, like so many construction yards. The Red Cross, together with the owner, will see when the start-up of the center would be possible. You ask me for a date, but I cannot give it to you, because I do not have a glass ball to know when the building will be safe for use.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u44	Mr President, Minister, I fully understand that you cannot give me a date, especially in the circumstances. However, I have also asked you whether there is an agreement or not. You've been dancing around the hot stuff a little bit, but it's still not clear to me whether it's there or not. I still do not know who to believe: Fedasil, that says there is no agreement, or you who say here in the Chamber that there is one. In the meantime, we should have learned that it is important to communicate clearly and transparently with the people in order to seek acceptance and avoid dramas in the future. Madam Secretary, admit that this file is too complex. You can't get that agreement on paper. The circumstances are too difficult. It was a bad decision to build that center in that place. Have the courage to reverse the decision. That's the question of Great Sweeps. That's the question I'm asking you here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u45	Meanwhile, Deputy Prime Minister Geens has arrived and we return to the order of the questions, with first the questions to Minister Geens and then Mrs Samyn's question to Minister De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u46	Mr Minister, at the committee meeting yesterday I asked some questions about the kidnapping of a minor boy by a gang of Muslim extremists. Your answer was hallucinatory and vague and concerns us very much for the future. About 400 terrorists were released in four years. They're all being followed up, but the security of the state can't guarantee they're not doing anything anymore. The latest fact, which we talked about yesterday, is that a seasoned Muslim extremist can kidnap a boy, cut an accomplice's anklet, and yet another accomplice does not comply with his probation conditions. No one responds, not even the court of appeal, that a membership of a terrorist organisation is not really so much an estimate and sends the good man back on the road with a three-year delay. The system is as leaky as a sieve. Minister, when will you take responsibility for this? When is a much more severe punishment going to happen? When will there be the change in the law on the posting of that kind of scum? When will the nationality of such extremists be reduced? Our system is currently so lax that we are laughed at in circles of IS and Al-Qaeda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u47	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about seven guys with a legal history, registered as radicalised. One of them cut his tape. Another had already been convicted of terrorism. They have managed to hostage a 13-year-old boy for 42 days. I would like to give a compliment to the researchers who have done a wonderful job and arrested the perpetrators. However, Minister, the more we know about the case, the more questions there are, even after yesterday's committee meeting. After all, the Brussels judge at first instance was avenged. Why was that? Is that why the trial took so long? Is the long duration of a trial the reason to impose a lower sentence? Should we be okay with that? Can we say something about that? Why were only standard conditions imposed? Why, for example, was no route of deradicalisation imposed? Should we not require in our House that such a route be imposed? How is it explained that a penalty was imposed with delay at all? It didn't work out in any way. By the way, how could they get guns so easily? These are all questions and blind spots, Minister. That's gonna put the Justice Department in a negative position. It is really important for all actors to assume their responsibilities. You said yesterday that the follow-up is not a waterproof system. It needs to be improved. You're gonna kick in an open door. This morning you put two proposals forward on the radio. That's ours, by the way. The first proposal concerns the posting and compulsory succession of terrorists. That proposal is for discussion in the Chamber. I would like to look at my fellow Members, because there can be no lack of support for this now. Secondly, you advocated further regionalisation of justice. We also see in the file cited that fragmentation does not always lead to the best results. I really hope that you will join us in implementing the proposals. Good steps have already been taken in recent years. The punishments have been increased. Again and again, however, the work is far from finished. It just can't go on like this. Could you shed some light on the blind spot? We need more information on this. You yourself spoke yesterday about the improvement of the follow-up. What do you mean, in concrete terms? What can you or will you do? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u48	Yesterday I answered a lot of questions, but I would like to repeat them. Today there are 27 people in prison who have been convicted of terrorism or who have been radicalised and will be released by the end of 2021. That may be a useful figure to take into account in the exercise of posting. I spoke yesterday about the Local Task Forces and stressed that I believe that this is the best way to follow up on such individuals. When a terrorist suspect leaves prison, the security of the state always prepares a report. This is delivered to the partner services. On this basis, the peer review in the Local Task Force is carried out. What I'm gonna pull out of my slide depends on how long I'm gonna be on that slider, Mrs. De Wit. It's in a manner of speaking, I know. But I'm allowed to laugh, right? I don't know what else I'm gonna get out of it. In any case, an evaluation of the Local Task Forces is ongoing. You will say: Justice is slow, that man has also been under a judge in Sweden. There is always a lot of time between the facts and the verdict. That means, Mrs Bury, that you are now judging a court ruling based on old law. We haven't been idle in the last five years. But we all know that criminal law cannot be applied retroactively. In the meantime, the penalties for terrorism have been increased, repeatedly. We have tried to make travel abroad a criminal offence. It worked. We have made preparatory acts criminal, even the attempt to commit preparatory acts. Punishment measures have been lifted. Just before the elections, we all adopted a new law, which states that when a person is released after being a suspect of terror, the psychological report needs an additional addendum prepared by an expert on the subject, specifically dealing with the terrorist risk of the suspect. As an additional condition of release, he may be subject to an adapted guidance process. The recidivism comes back to two thirds. Remember, it stood at one third, by a ruling from the Constitutional Court. Finally, such a person may travel abroad only if the admission is particularly justified by the criminal enforcement court. In short, in addition to the classically imposed conditions, we have imposed a number of additional matters. If I'm right, those are after the facts that we're talking about here. I've heard many times that these terrorist suspects are no longer with us. You're always talking about "she," Mrs. Bury, unlike "we." That's your right. I'm just noticing that. However, I must point out that we can only take away nationality if they have multiple nationalities. After all, we have strongly strengthened that law. We cannot make people stand alone and we live in a rule of law that must respect international treaties. It's easy to pretend those people have to disappear from the globe, but they exist. As I have said on many occasions, I would like to go along with it in order to entangle the posting of terrorist convicts, but we cannot make these people disappear permanently. Do you understand? It is so easy to always talk about it in that tone, because in this particular case, of course, I have to say that it is totally reprehensible, but we do not know whether these are terrorist acts. We only know that these acts have been committed by people who have ever been in contact with terrorism from far or near. There are a lot of people among those offenders who have an ordinary criminal record, including those who are permanently identified as prime suspects. The question is always to what extent such a person is a terrorist out of deep conviction. Isn't he just a criminal of ordinary law who makes a living with that? At the moment, we have no motive and we do not know why the facts were committed. However, I, too, read all sorts of things in the newspaper that are not terrorist-related.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u49	Minister, you have gone a little over your speaking time, so I will double the reply time of the two speakers, from 1 to 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u50	Mr President, I have very little time and the Minister has so much time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u51	It's already been corrected, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u52	Minister, your answer was once again vague. The hallucinating part has been omitted. That is a good thing, because then people will not be able to hear that the probation conditions are not being respected, that someone is being kidnapped for 42 days without anyone reacting. Those are things you said yesterday and you're not saying anymore. That punishment must be even more severe. There is no doubt that further work is needed to reduce nationality. That should be added to the agenda. I am already very pleased that you want to work on the posting and I hope that this will really happen. We will now present a legislative initiative to increase the penalty for membership to ten to fifteen years. We would like to see a middle-level position in such a company increased to 15 to 20 years. The whole system of punishment for terror needs to be reviewed. The risk of relapse must be taken seriously. You say that they may have been members of such an organization once, but not anymore and that they really don't mean it badly. Minister, jihadists organize terrorism on the basis of a malicious conviction. That's not like a criminal doing it out of money. They have totally different motives. Those ideas of the jihadists don't just disappear. Sometimes it's very difficult to rehabilitate them. In reality, they radicalize in prison. That too should be reviewed. We need to replace that with another policy so that we can be sure that we are safe when those people are released to society. I very much hope that this can finally be done quickly and constructively across party boundaries.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for the answers, of which I have, of course, already known a few. However, there are a number of questions that you have not answered today. As representatives of the people, we must continue to put pressure on this, and we must not let go of this, as we also have tools to legislate on this. If we haven't done enough, we need to do more. It's that simple. The proposal for posting, the compulsory succession, not only of terrorists, but also of sexual offenders, lies ahead of this Chamber. Let us all work together on this as soon as possible and ensure that it is approved. Regionalisation is also interesting, although you did not reply. The Committee on Justice has already held hearings on the usefulness of the punishment. It's different. There are statements that prisons are no longer needed and that problems solve themselves. We do need them. In this case, no day has been effectively imposed. It didn't really work as a deterrent. An anklet didn't really help. If we do not agree on how to do so and if opinions are different, there is only one solution. That's regionalization. We're trying to reform federally, but it's not easy. I hope that everyone understands this and that justice can be transferred a little more to that other level. Then perhaps we can each, according to our own vision, make our mark on that and we can ensure a strong, firm approach, as the Fleming requires.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u54	Minister, in a Belga dispatch today, the press judge expressed concern about the significant number of cases relating to the handling of violations of containment measures decided to limit the spread of coronavirus, which could increase the number of cases before the police courts. According to current estimates, we would be 30 000 VOCID-19 files for the year, with an increase in workload of about 15%. During the discussion of the Various VOCID (II) Act in the Justice Committee, the College of Attorneys General had insisted and drew the attention of the members of the Commission to the consequences of the withdrawal of the payment order. The latter would have made it possible to resolve the non-payment of the minutes in a flexible and moderate manner. Unfortunately, this provision, which my group had supported and which was temporary, was withdrawn from the bill following the negative vote of some parties. Today, it seems to me essential to reserve a continuation of all these VOCID-19 minutes. Moreover, in the event of a new wave of the epidemic in September, which some epidemiologists are talking about, a sense of impunity should not prevail in the population. This risk is real and disturbing. Minister, how do prosecutors, who have discretion as to the follow-up to be given to the minutes in the event of non-payment of criminal transactions, generally manage the VOCID-19 files? Have any instructions already been given? Are steps being taken to eventually increase the capacity of police courts to process cases to deal with this 15% increase in their workload in the coming year?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u55	Mrs Gilson, you were present in committee at a time when she preferred not to follow up on our amendment, the adoption of which would have allowed the payment order which, for the time being, is applied to traffic offences to be applied also to coronavirus offences. No doubt this decision by the Committee on Justice and your Parliament will have an impact in terms of workload. In fact, that's why I agreed that litigation should be transferred from the correctional level to the police level. First of all, I understand that the Crossborder system, which has so far digitized the entire road traffic infringement process, leads to a prompt payment without judicial proceedings of 93% of the fines. Secondly, as a result of this digitization, the number of cases to be dealt with by police courts decreased by 18% between 2017 and 2019 – 42,000 fewer cases. As a result, these courts gain some margin for coronavirus offences. Moreover, since the beginning of the crisis, the number of traffic offences has decreased by 40%. In short, in my view, these two facts can bring some oxygen to the police courts, which will be relieved and will be able to deal with coronavirus offences in a timely manner. In any case, the challenge is considerable. The Public Prosecutor's Office and the head office maintain ongoing contacts at the local level and within national colleges in the search for appropriate solutions to meet this challenge.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answers. I do regret that Ecolo, the N-VA and the Sp.a. voted against this payment order, which has proved its worth in the Crossborder system and in the road traffic infringement system. For the MR, it is essential that breaches of the containment rules that have resulted in minutes be followed up. We may be able to count on the goodwill of the citizens who will pay for certain transactions, but it will probably not be a majority. It will therefore be necessary for the prosecution of offenders in default of payment. Minister, I am glad to have heard your answers, but we are counting on you to ensure that, in keeping with the separation of executive and judicial powers, you can empower the courts to prosecute these offences. Let us not forget that it is to save lives that these confinement rules have been imposed!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u57	Mr President, Minister, despite the promise made by your colleague, Mr De Croo, to give a bonus to workers who remained at work in difficult circumstances, that bonus did not come. The blackbird for the healthcare sector's premium was transferred to the Länder. Since the government apparently does not want to take responsibility for this, several sectors now want to be able to pay a premium or bonus to their staff themselves. The sector organisation of managers of private elderly services is currently in discussion with the federal government about a one-off thank-you premium for their staff, exempt from tax and social charges, of course, both for the employee and the employer. As your colleague, the Minister for Finance, said at the end of April, if companies were to ask for such a premium from taxation, the government would be prepared to do so. Then what are they waiting for? There's also good news today. Your colleague, Mr Koen Geens, supports the call for state reform and the housing of health care in the Communities, in response to the communications from Mrs Cloet van Zorgnet-Icuro, the country's largest dome of care. She's with us finding that the current system is up. Madam Minister, where is the consultation on exempting one-off thank-you payments by sectors or companies from tax and social charges? Will the government ensure that all those who remained at work receive a care premium or a health bonus? When is the government going to sit around the table with all the stakeholders on the full transfer of health care to the Communities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u58	Mrs Samyn, with the idea of a care premium, you call it a thank-you bonus, we would like to express our appreciation to the caregivers, who have worked hard and are still taking care of the corona patients and now all the other patients who are being retreated. Thanks to them, quality health care for our people in Belgium was assured. At the federal level there was indeed an agreement on it, but there is also a need for coordination with the regions. It is still running and you know that things can happen quickly, but they can also be difficult. The latter is now the case. A consultation was launched with the social partners of the federal health sector. Minister Muylle, Minister Clarinval and myself take part in this. At a first meeting this week, it became clear that the sector needs structural measures. I read today that there is an agreement in the Chamber on the Health Care Staff Fund and that it will be discussed in the committee responsible the next day. These include more hands on the bed, more caregivers and more opportunities to train people to become nurses or caregivers. It is important that, with the next step, during the social dialogue, we look together with the sector at the needs of health care workers in terms of wage and working conditions and how, as last time, we can come to a new social agreement for the non-profit sector. Everyone has committed themselves to working on this in a constructive way and in complete serenity. In the second part of your speech, you took the ideological tour. We know your little riedel that everything will be better if everything is transferred. I'd rather look at what works and what doesn't. A good service at an acceptable price throughout our country and the same quality of care for all patients throughout our country are important. The decision-making process in this area must be speedy. Where there are economies of scale, we must make use of it. In this respect, therefore, I have no taboos, nor do I have that powers can go both ways, sometimes a refederalisation, sometimes rather a regionalisation. If this corona crisis has taught us one thing, it is that we must be able to move faster. I can tell you that this is not easy with nine ministers. There must also be central coordination with single command. We therefore need better coordination between more prevention and a good health policy. We have learned that too, and that has had its price. You want to decide on such a serious issue here at Question Time at two minutes. I'll pass for that. I want to start the debate after this corona crisis. I certainly won't shut up. I've already written a booklet explaining what can be done better. However, I believe that we now have other priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u59	Mrs. Samyn, you have a double reply time. Government and Parliament must be in balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u60	Madam Minister, I am pleased that you are aware that we are in any case in favour of the division of social security and will always stand for it. For Flemish Interest, everyone who has remained at work deserves a thank-you bonus, not only in the care sector, but also the bus drivers, the port workers and the people in the logistics sector; they have worked their asses off in these exceptional and difficult circumstances. The Corona heroes don't benefit from empty promises. Any measures that may be taken must not be put in the hands of the companies. Of course, the blackbird is also being transferred to the Länder. I didn't expect anything else. We repeat that you yourself also suggested that there should be structural solutions for the care sector: pay for work, investment in training and more hands on the bed. Madam Secretary, the government has been blundering in many areas over the past few months. You yourself admit that a lot of lessons can be learned. A first lesson is that care must be fully transferred to the Länder as a homogeneous set of competences. Funding must follow the same path. You and your party have two options. You can take care of the division of health care. Another possibility is that you will continue to serve as a hand puppet of the French-speaking people, so you may eventually unwittingly take care of the splitting of this country. I'm not gonna be grieved about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u61	If the Minister continues to speak, I will ensure that it remains balanced for Parliament and that Parliament has at least as much speaking time as the government. It is always very difficult, Mrs Kitir. I agree on that. The difficulties start when some people exceed the speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u62	Ms. Fonck had addressed her question to Ms. Wilmès, who transferred her to Mr. Backer. Mrs Fonck, you informed me that you were not convinced by the argument. Nevertheless, the government decides.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u63	Mr President, I did address this question to the Prime Minister. I regret that she has refused and that she has thus cleared herself of her full and complete responsibilities. In fact, yesterday's National Security Council decided on a wide-ranging breakdown, which will inevitably lead to a much greater brewing of citizens. In this decision puzzle, a major piece is still missing to avoid a rebound of VOCID-19. The right recipe should hold in a quick testing, with PCR results within 24 hours. The test should be extended not only to asymptomatic people but also to those with the slightest doubt. The right recipe also fits in a serology, to ensure the diagnosis of catching up. The right recipe holds, again, and finally, in an efficient and manual tracing, supplemented by a digital tracing because we have no other choice. All these points are a problem today. In some cases, the results are far too late, three, four, sometimes five days later. The test still cannot be applied to asymptomatic people. Manual tracking is far too weak. This is reflected in the modalities used, the low number of calls and the limited catch-up of VOCID-19 carriers. There is still no digital tracing, but it is necessary with the decisions of yesterday's CNS. The opening of horeca, cinemas, but also borders, and hence the resumption of tourism on a European scale, require a tracing to another extent. In its opinion, the Council of State deals with proposals for legislation on the division of powers. I myself had tabled a series of amendments. Indeed, there are a number of privacy issues. It was possible to do things differently and much more effectively. For the past two weeks, many statements have been made. There is a lack of action and efficiency; the consequences in the event of a rebound would be catastrophic. Minister, when can we actually test asymptomatic people? When will the PCR test result be guaranteed in 24 hours? When will there be expanded manual tracking instructions? When will a digital tracing finally be deployed? When will a legislative framework through a cooperation agreement be achieved?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u64	Mrs Fonck, thank you for these various questions. You are absolutely right: the strategy of tracing and testing is essential during a deconfining. You also mentioned the opinion of the Council of State that this strategy falls within the competence of the Regions. I quote: "However, the Communities are competent for the detection and control of contagious and social diseases as part of their competence in preventive medicine." Nevertheless, the federal government has always tried to support this important effort during this definity. We met last Saturday to decide how to create a legal framework. The Regions, for their part, have drawn up a cooperation agreement which has begun to be put in place. I insist that this move forward as quickly as possible because the Council of State has made it clear that the federal government is not competent in this matter. This is also the opinion of the Data Protection Authority. Meanwhile, in the federal government, we have continued to support the efforts of the various Regions. For example, in the testing strategy, we have increased capacity. On Saturday, we also had a meeting with all Ministers-Presidents and Ministers of Health to extend this test criterion to asymptomatic contacts. That doesn't seem essential to me. Tonight, I hope that in CIM with the relevant ministers, we will be able to validate the implementation of this strategy, which also includes a second serology test which will allow us to make a catch-up, if necessary. Furthermore, the tracing system is implemented by the Regions. Here too, the federal government has provided support, for example in the management of the data bank or through the provision of the eHealth platform. Together, with the inter-federal committee that was created, we will make this testing and tracing a success during the deconfining.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u65	Minister, I wanted to address this question to the Prime Minister. During all these months, he failed to anticipate and react quickly. And if a solid device of testing, tracing, isolation of the carriers had been put in place as early as March last, we would probably have been able to dispense with a collective and long confinement as we experienced it. The worst thing is that today, three months later, we still lack anticipation and rapid reaction. What you're announcing today, we've been talking about it for weeks. This should be effective, effective and operational for weeks. Today, there is no longer any excuse on the road. You're referring to the Regions. The Regions are pointing your finger at you. In short, each of you is competent and responsible. Today, it is a matter of having a strategy that is worthy of the name to avoid a rebound. It's about being effective. This is still not the case and it is not yet and still not acceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u66	That brings us to the end of the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u67	You have received an amended draft agenda for today's meeting. You have received an amended draft agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u68	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Tomas Roggeman, Yoleen Van Camp, Marianne Verhaert, Joris Vandenbroucke, Bert Wollants, Jef Van den Bergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u69	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (944/8) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (944/8) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. Our rapporteur, Laurence Zanchetta, refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, cycling and the train should be each other's main ally as instruments of sustainable mobility, in the fight for better air quality, against congestion and for safer traffic. Unfortunately, that is not always the case. For some years, the Regions have been carrying out ambitious projects in the field of bicycle infrastructure. In Flanders there are the bike highways, of which about half is built. In Wallonia, the network of RAVel and pre-RAVel is being strengthened. Many of the planned cycle paths are planned along railways or on former railway beds. This is the case for an estimated seven hundred kilometres of the still thousand kilometres of cycle highway that the Flemish provinces and local authorities want to build together. In order to complete these new, large-scale cycling networks, the cooperation of Infrabel and SNCB as landowners is therefore indispensable. That's where the shoe's got the nerve to pinch. Both railway companies are keen to leverage these projects for their own strategic or commercial purposes. It is not unseen that socially valuable bicycle projects are being blocked because they do not have a direct private interest in these railway companies or because excessive demands are being placed against them, which make the creation of a new bicycle connection very difficult or even impossible in practice. In Oudegem, for example, Infrabel refused to accept a temporary occupation contract for three kilometers of bike highway, unless this was compensated by the closure of no less than three consider in a single village. In Herentals, SNCB threatened to disable an existing bicycle path unless the municipality bought the land. Local authorities located along routes to be built will recognize this problem. The opinions that we were allowed to receive on this proposal from various provincial authorities, on both sides of the language border, confirm that the setting up of both railway companies regularly creates a barrier to the smooth construction of new bicycle connections. The private objectives of the two railway undertakings, such as the dismantling of ground level, are often legitimate in themselves. However, when such projects are linked to bicycle projects, they become a necessary stumbling block more than once. In this way, train and bike too often collide with each other. That's unfortunate. The purpose of this motion for a resolution is precisely to correct this. SNCB and Infrabel are important public landowners, who manage public property for the public benefit and for the realisation of the modal shift. This proposal draws the attention of both public enterprises to their major responsibility for achieving sustainable transport modes in general, even if they do not manage them themselves. This proposal therefore calls on SNCB and Infrabel to cooperate constructively with other authorities in favour of the cycling highways, of RAVEL and pre-RAVEL, including the generous provision of the land necessary for this purpose. The resolution asks that those grounds should preferably be made available through the establishment of a right in rem or by an occupation or use agreement whereby financial compensation may be charged for the administrative processing but not for the provision of the land itself, and that, in addition, no conditions should be imposed in connection with the construction of the bike highways in other projects which have nothing to do with the bicycle. I would stress that it is not the intention to undermine railway undertakings or their interests. However, we would like to see a constructive approach by public companies to the realisation of cycle motorways not only in words, but also in deeds. In this way, the adoption of this resolution will mean a start in the construction of the cycle motorways in Flanders and Brussels, and of the RAVELs in Wallonia, for the benefit of citizens, the environment and safe mobility. Then I would like to express my gratitude to the colleagues of the Committee on Mobility for their good cooperation. The debates were sometimes extensive, but always constructive. I am pleased that we were able to reach a consensus and unanimity in committee, because that makes this signal all the more powerful.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u71	Mr President, given Mr Roggeman's extensive speech, I can be quite brief. I would like to stress once again the need to build fast cycling infrastructure. Mr Roggeman has already referred to the efforts made by the provinces in recent years in the field of cycle motorways or bicycle ostrades, as they are called in Antwerp. This also results in results: in the last five years cycling has increased by as much as 30% over the last five years, it is mainly about functional cycling, which is not insignificant in our mobility policy, as this can reduce traffic congestion. Of course, that network is not finished. Mr Roggeman has already referred to it. It requires further efforts and realizations. The bicycle ostrades and also the hunting trails along the canals are starting to get crowded. The corona crisis has added a shovel to that and created an additional incentive to use the bike, for example for commuting trips. Faster implementation, in good cooperation with, for example, SNCB and Infrabel, is crucial. In this sense, the resolution, which will hopefully be adopted unanimously in plenary, can contribute to creating additional space for the cyclist, thereby reducing the pressure on our roads.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u72	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u73	The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u74	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u75	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u76	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u77	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1115/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1115/1) The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u78	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u79	Not related Without report
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u80	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u81	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1147/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1147/3) The bill has 13 articles. The draft law has 13 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u82	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u83	Not related Without report
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u84	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u85	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1221/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1221/3) The bill has six articles. The draft law has 6 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u86	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u87	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 912: Jessika Soors, Cécile Thibaut, Kim Buyst, Sarah Schlitz, Stefaan Van Hecke, Julie Chanson, Tinne Van der Straeten, Anja Vanrobaeys, Joris Vandenbroucke, Kris Verduyckt - 332: Anja Vanrobaeys, Joris Vandenbroucke, Kris Verduyckt.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u88	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Eric Thiébaut, rapporteur, referred to his written report. I shall first give the floor, in order of the political groups, to Mr Van den Bergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to dwell on this legislative proposal, because it concerns a dossier that I have been following for more than five years. With Minister Van Overtveldt, a scheme was developed here in 2017 whereby employees who are entitled to a bicycle fee, who also receive if they use a speedpedelec for commuting. However, this did not automatically mean that the federal officials or the members of the federal police were also eligible for this bicycle fee. To this end, the legislation relating to the Staff Regulations had to be adapted. This adjustment was promised many times in response to oral questions by the ministers who passed through the Department of Civil Service. However, the aspect of the bicycle fee was included in a broader revision of the Staff Regulations and no consensus was found in the B Committee, while the government went into ongoing cases at the end of 2018. That's why the scheme never got around to my frustration and the frustration of many federal workers. We then prepared a resolution to strengthen Parliament's demand that the bicycle fee should also apply to workers who drive speed pedals. We worked with a resolution for this because we thought that a bill would not be a correct slope. Now, however, there is a legislative proposal for discussion to achieve this, and if we can do that, it is a very good thing for us. In committee, however, we discussed whether the text before us is the appropriate instrument. That may seem like a semantic discussion, but I refer to Article 107 of the Constitution, which stipulates that the King shall appoint the officials. In the case of distractions, he also regulates the administration and the organisation, which means that the status of officials with wage and working conditions is an integral part of this. The same applies to the bicycle fee. At the very least, it goes against all the practices of Belgian administrative law to regulate such compensation by means of a legislative proposal. Of course, there is also the principle that the legislator has the full power to do anything that the Constitution does not explicitly prohibit him from doing. In this sense, Parliament can, of course, exercise that right and come to this settlement through this legislative proposal. It may not be the most common way of achieving the goal, but we can support the goal in itself. That is why we will be voting in favour of this bill in the near future. I would like to point out, however, that for this measure the social consultation procedure should normally be discussed in the B Committee. Now, this measure would undoubtedly have little problem with social dialogue. So it's possible. But that too is a precedent. Anything for the good, we'll think, so we'll be supporting this bill later. As a result, the right to a bicycle fee for officials and members of the federal police will finally be settled. That is a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u90	Mr President, I will pick up where Mr Van den Bergh left off. This bill finally brings a long-awaited solution. I note this in the many responses I have received in the meantime from officials who are very satisfied that this solution is now coming for them. We know that cycling fees are increasing in popularity. We know that there was a demand for a fee for speed pedals because it allows people to bridge a greater distance between the place of residence and the work. We also know that the bicycle has been rediscovered and appreciated since the crisis. We are therefore very pleased with the solution that has finally been found. We are also pleased that we have been able to count on unanimous support for this bill, despite the discussion on how to proceed. We also welcome the timing. At a time when people themselves choose to use the bike more often and in the exit period it is important that people move as healthy as possible, Parliament shows that it meets this and encourages it in every way possible. For me, the bill is part of that. I am very pleased that it is before us and that it will be approved today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u91	That's gonna come out in a minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u92	Mr President, as Mrs Soors points out, it is not a new fact. Our party submitted its own bill in 2019. However, for the sake of the agreement with traffic legislation, we have finally joined the Green proposal. It is a healthy and sustainable proposal. It is also a logical proposal, as it is in the traffic legislation or in the legislation on bicycle fees that has already been approved by the Regions in the past. Reference has been made to Flanders. Flemish officials have been able to benefit from the compensation since 2019. So it's a good thing. The proposal also fits in with a policy of better mobility for our country. Just now there was the proposal on the bike highways. A number of things are gradually changing in our country, including our perception of cycling. Speed pedelecs make that possible. They don't take people out of traffic cycling around the church tower. They'll be pulling officials and police officers out of traffic that travel a little bit further. For example, it is a policeman who bikes from Lommel to Mol and thus travels a further distance, but thus is given the opportunity, which is a good thing. Mrs Soors also referred to the possible legal difficulties. I have seen in particular that all the opinions were ultimately positive, except for the questions that had been asked. I do not therefore fear that there will be any objection whatsoever to the fact that we are giving more than 60,000 employees the chance to be compensated in the future for coming to work with speed pedals. If a proposal is good, logical, healthy and sustainable, it can count on our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u93	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u94	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (912/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (912/4) The title has been amended by the commission to "proposed law amending the Royal Decree of 13 July 2017 laying down allowances and allowances for members of the federal public service in order to compensate for the use of speed pedalecs". The title was changed by the Committee to "draft amending the Royal Decree of 13 July 2017 establishing the allowances and allowances of the staff of the Federal Public Office for the purpose of compensating for the use of speed pedelecs'. The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u95	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u96	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Marie-Colline Leroy, Evita Willaert, Ludivine Dedonder, Florence Reuter, Nahima Lanjri, Anja Vanrobaeys, Sarah Schlitz, Barbara Creemers, Laurence Hennuy, Kim Buyst.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u97	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Sophie Thémont, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group wanted to support this proposal in its original form, which sought to equal the period of temporary unemployment for reasons of force majeure or for economic reasons during prenatal leave with working periods. It was clearly a corona-related, time-limited measure from 1 March to 30 June. Temporary unemployment for economic reasons for workers was already treated as working days, but not yet for servants. We felt that the different treatment of workers and servants in the present circumstances was illogical and inexplicable. Furthermore, the risk of abuse was very limited, because temporary unemployment is almost always caused by external factors, i.e. beyond the will of the employer and the employee. At the committee meeting, amendments were tabled to extend the legislative proposal to cover incapacity for work during the prenatal period. In addition, a structural proposal has been made by removing the time limit. This means that it has become a fundamentally different proposal, which is no longer COOVID-19-related either. It has been made a structural measure. We can no longer support the proposal, not only because it is a structural measure, but also because the days of incapacity for work have been added. We also fear, like the Court of Auditors, that the proposed measures will lead to a substantial increase in absenteeism during that period. Prenatal leave is intended for the pregnant worker who can no longer work. The temptation is great for both employer and employee to opt for sick leave and to add those days to post-natal leave, thus increasing absenteeism during the prenatal phase of an employee. In addition, maternity leave is only one of the schemes that parents can rely on. There are, quite rightly, many more systems. We are in favour of a COOVID-19-related extension of the measure, but we need to be very careful with structural enlargement, especially in view of the growing budgetary deficits in social security due to the COOVID-19 crisis. Unfortunately, that is the reality. If we go to measures that will increase costs in a structural way, even after the COOVID-19 period, we should link this to proposals that reflect on how we can keep our social security financially sustainable in the future. I have one more technical comment on our part. This proposal has a retroactive effect from 1 March. By adding incapacity for work, this would mean that employers would have to pay, retroactively, a guaranteed wage for workers whose incapacity for work had already been converted into maternity leave. This may entail administrative inconvenience and unforeseen costs for employers. That is not the main reason for voting against this proposal, but it is an additional technical reason. It is not the first time that something that is given the urgency and the content of what is being put on the ground in the COOVID-19 context is completely changed, with a number of amendments, both in substance and in terms of time, into a structural measure which is no longer COOVID-19-related and which also has far more far-reaching consequences. We see this happening over and over again in the Committee on Social Affairs, and I regret that. I thought this was a very good proposal, which we would have supported, but unfortunately we will have to vote against with these improper measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in our country mothers are entitled to 15 weeks of maternity leave. They are obliged to take one week before the due date and then have 14 weeks' post-natal leave. If they are unlucky enough to become ill or unemployed or unemployed in the last six weeks before giving birth for reasons of safety at work, then those weeks are, as it were, taken away from that post-natal leave. This is an absurd, illogical arrangement, which is also child and woman unfriendly. The result of this scheme is that babies nine weeks of age must be sent to crèche or even another solution must be sought by the parents. Some crèches do not even want to accept such small infants. These are very young infants or 'flat babies', who cannot yet sit up and need especially their mom and milk, ideally breast-feeding. In many crèches babies are only welcome after three months. Another consequence of this is that moms sometimes keep walking around sick, with all the consequences, such as the risk of premature birth. A woman testified that she had been walking around for several weeks with an illness note she hadn't filed because she didn't want the time she would spend with her child to be shorter afterwards. She asked me if she could finally stop walking around so miserable and if she could finally use the sickness note. There is clearly a difference in treatment in Belgium between unlucky mommies and other mommies who are unlucky and whose pregnancy is flawless. For Ecolo-Groen, all moms are entitled to those 15 weeks together with their baby. Even with these fifteen weeks, Belgium is already dangling at the bottom of Europe. Most countries offer mommies twenty to thirty-four weeks. Eastern Europe is more generous than Western Europe, that is true. Also, compared to the other Western European countries, Belgium is dangling at the bottom of the tail. In fact, some parliamentary work had already been done on such a proposal. We had considered this proposal in the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions a while back, before the corona crisis broke out, as a priority. Other parties had already put forward proposals, including in the previous legislature. Because of the corona crisis, this has finally accelerated. The crisis has exposed the deep injustice in the maternity scheme particularly harshly. Mommies who were temporarily unemployed by corona also started to contact us massively to ask if they would have lost those weeks now. So I would not call that 'abuse of', but take the opportunity to put something in order that could have already been arranged, but should have been, above all. Colleagues, this is something that touches me deeply, as a politician and as a mom. I have also felt this in the Committee on Social Affairs with other colleagues, with other women, but also with young dads. That was a great time to experience on the committee. In the path we have taken over the last few weeks, I have also been very moved by the many reports from moms about this, from a great relief to tears in the eyes. Of course, there's still a lot of work to be done. We must also regulate this for self-employed mothers, because they are also faced with such an arrangement. There is work on the shelf to give daddies more time to spend with their newborn baby, to extend paternity leave and also to grant it automatically. We must also give incentives to ensure that more men take parental leave. This really makes a difference now. I would like to thank all the colleagues who have put their shoulders on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u100	Mr President, today is a great day, a great step forward for women, for all future mothers. We have an opportunity to redress injustice, discrimination against them all these years. These mothers had the bad luck of getting sick in the weeks before their delivery, at the very moment when we must be serene, joyful, where we finish the final preparations while waiting for the arrival of a baby. These mothers were planed for their postnatal leave, penalised twice for an accident or illness they had not chosen, sanctioned for circumstances beyond their control. They were forced to separate more quickly from their child, to break this vital bond in the mother-child relationship, to have to stop breastfeeding prematurely, to find a faster solution to keep their baby. They were forced to return to work in difficult conditions, without having been able to take full advantage of their child, stressed tired by too short nights, with the proven risk of relapse, overwork, burn out. This text to correct this injustice, the PS group also tabled it at the beginning of the legislature. Meanwhile, the crisis of the VOCID-19 has gone through this, adding to the list of mothers discriminated against, those who have been put into temporary unemployment, also seeing their maternity leave reduced. Together with my colleagues at Ecolo-Groen, we insisted on putting the case back on the discussion table to redress this inequity. At this particularly painful time, future mothers had to be supported. But not just because an injustice has to be corrected, whether you are a victim of the coronavirus or any other disease or accident. President: André Flahaut, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u101	On behalf of the PS Group, I was able to table amendments to the original text of the law, so as not to forget anyone! I am thinking in particular of our heroines of the crisis: those we applaud at 8:00 p.m., those who care for us, those who care for our children, those who educate them, those who continued to provide essential services during this crisis. One day, when they want to become mothers, they will be left out for their health or for the health of their unborn child. These are nurses, caregivers, childcare workers, teachers, maintenance staff in high-risk environments, and so many others, without which we would be little. They are also women, whose wages are unfairly low, and whose indispensable role in the functioning of our society is recognized. Neither do they choose to be put aside when the day comes. They are also entitled to full and guaranteed maternity leave. Their kids just as much need their mom. It is therefore a fairly complete proposal that is before you for the final vote today. This is an important moment and so much expected by all women. Who can predict the future and the situations we will face? These fifteen weeks of maternity rest must be a right for all women, and it is our duty, as parliamentarians, to guarantee it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u102	Mr President, in the original proposal, the prenatal rest of pregnant workers who are subject to temporary unemployment by COVID-19 could be transferred to postnatal rest. Amendment is now opening up this scheme to all pregnant workers who lose their six weeks of prenatal rest because of illness or an accident, not pregnancy-related. Too short maternity rest due to unforeseen circumstances is detrimental to the baby and the parents. I'm just thinking about breast-feeding or looking for early care. From now on, the mother will have full post-natal maternity rest, which benefits mother and child. In committee we had also tabled an amendment on the removal of work. Work removal was invoked during the COOVID-19 crisis for pregnant women by their employer, for example in hospitals. Also outside the corona crisis, removal of work is often used for pregnant women when they come into contact with dangerous substances or work in a working environment which presents a risk to the mother and/or child during pregnancy or during breast-feeding. Since the present legislative proposal was fully opened up, providing for the right of all pregnant workers to a full period of maternity rest, it seemed to us to justify extending the scheme to future mothers with work removal in the prenatal period, who will thus be able to transfer those days to the postnatal period. Unfortunately, our amendment was not adopted, but we supported Mrs Dedonder's amendment on this. The Flemish Interest will certainly support the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u103	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am also keen to speak on this important subject, both for women's rights and for myself as a mother. Above all, I would like to repeat here before the House how much I really regret that some political parties are taking advantage of this emergency linked to VOCID to bring structural changes to the law, without taking into account the work that had been started by the social partners. This bill on the postponement of periods of temporary unemployment during prenatal leave after post-natal leave is a good example of this. The proposal received the urgency as it was directly related to the VOCID period. But it is no longer the same text that is proposed to the vote today. I would therefore like to explain the reasons why we finally abstained on this proposal, which we had co-signed at the grass-roots level, in good faith. On form, first of all. It goes without saying that, when I co-signed this proposal, we shared the purpose of the measure and it was important for us to support it, namely the assimilation of days of temporary unemployment for force majeure as working days. It was deeply unfair to us that these future mothers should be penalized twice because of the health crisis. But, barely with my signature, the authors tabled an amendment that profoundly modified the text so as, on the one hand, to assimilate also the days of incapacity for work during the prenatal period and, on the other hand, to remove any time limit, thus rendering these structural assimilations. I must admit that this is the first time in my parliamentary life that I am confronted with what I really call a political manoeuvre. It is a dishonest and unworthy way of doing business. Then we had to choose. The opportunity had to be seized, I was told. The VOCID was therefore only a pretext. That's for the way. In substance, this is even worse, since some have decided to ignore all the work done on this issue by the social partners in recent months. Indeed, everyone – me the first – agreed that every mother has the right to spend her fifteen weeks of maternity leave with her child. It was unusual for this leave to be planed, as the future mother would then find herself in temporary unemployment a few weeks before birth. This was an injustice that needed to be reworked. That said, the file had been on the table for a long time. Moreover, it was so complex that it had been sent back to the social partners. Of course, his examination took time. However, last December, a favourable agreement in principle was announced in an interim opinion of the National Labour Council (NCT). There was still a need to regulate the arrangements, given its impact on the social security budget and on businesses, as well as on the well-being of women workers and their newborns. I quote the opinion: "In order to address these concerns, the social partners wish to take the necessary time for a thorough examination. They committed themselves to developing, by the end of June 2020, a phased postponement of weeks of incapacity during the prenatal period to postnatal maternity leave." So, could we not wait another month? This question arises all the more as the FEB, in a final letter addressed to the Commission, once again undertook to respect the planned timing – despite the crisis. It must be noted that those who claim to be the quickest to defend social dialogue are also the first to flout it. I sincerely regret this, because we could have reached unanimous agreement on an important subject, of which my group and I fully share the philosophy. In fact, this coup de force will cause catastrophic repercussions for businesses, already badly affected by this health crisis. Moreover, it could also serve women in the labour market. This will, in any case, contribute to further strengthening discrimination against women, which is quite the opposite of the expected effect, for a few more weeks. These are the reasons why my group and I will abstain from voting on this bill, which I regret. In any event, we will continue to work seriously to combat discrimination in the employment of women and future mothers, in particular through a text that has been taken into consideration and which aims at sharing the optional weeks of post-natal leave. I have no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that you will support this bill when it is on the table in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Corona epidemic has forced us to act quickly over the last few months, to move quickly and to take a number of supportive measures in the field of health care but also in the socio-economic field. For example, the measure has been taken to ease temporary unemployment. At the peak moment, 1.3 million people made use of it. However, this revealed gaps in our law. One of those gaps came up when we got massive calls, and Minister Muylle also got reactions. It was said that it was a good thing that temporary unemployment was introduced, but that a part of maternity rest was suddenly lost. Everyone knows that every mother is entitled to 15 weeks of maternity leave, part of which must be taken in advance, at least one week; it may also be longer, for example six weeks, but one week before delivery is mandatory. As she has or hasn't fully recorded those weeks before childbirth, she can record the rest after childbirth. Most moms, and that's understandable, want to stay at work as long as possible, if they can and are fit. However, faced with temporary unemployment, they suddenly lost part of their maternity leave. After all, we only have the days actually worked and if we have not worked effectively, we cannot transfer it to maternity leave after childbirth. However, this is indeed regulated in the case of economic unemployment. So there's a gap in the law. As a result, moms who had expected to be able to spend 14 weeks with their baby lose part of the rest and often only get nine weeks, because they were temporarily unemployed the weeks before birth because of corona. In July 2018, I raised the problem here in plenary of mothers who lost part of their maternity leave because of illness. It was then decided to seek advice from the social partners. Unfortunately, it took until December 2019, i.e. a year and a half, before we received that advice from the social partners. Fortunately, that advice was positive. We found that there was a problem with temporary unemployment and that women lost their leave, coupled with the fact that we already knew beforehand that women who became ill also lost part of their leave. Minister Muylle himself had already worked out a royal decision to remedy that problem. At the same time, there was the initiative of Ecolo-Green in Parliament to settle the problem through a legislative proposal. We then called for the forces to be joined together. I'm glad we did. We have worked together on the proposal. We have signed the texts submitted together. We have also amended them together and made it possible for all mommies to have 15 weeks of maternity rest in any case. So it is not just about the problem that has arisen recently, namely mommies who are temporarily unemployed because of corona. They won't lose any more leave. It's just as well about women who got sick before birth. That disease may or may not be related to childbirth. People don't choose to get sick. For example, if someone goes through a difficult pregnancy and the doctor prescribes two or three weeks' sick leave, the person concerned currently loses those weeks. With our legislative proposal, which we have jointly tabled and amended, we now also grant women who become ill before childbirth the maternity rest of fourteen weeks and one week before childbirth. Also for women who are preventively removed from the workplace because they are carrying out a job where there is a risk to pregnancy and the child, such as care providers but also people in education, the same scheme was added at the last minute through an amendment. Finally, we have also ensured that women who are unemployed, who were not at work and who were ill before giving birth can have maternity leave after the birth of 14 weeks without being called for any kind of job. They must, of course, be available for the labour market afterwards, but they will also be entitled to the total 15 weeks, one week before delivery and fourteen weeks after delivery. I would like to tell you that, in the case of the birth of multiples or twins, the mothers are of course entitled to four more weeks. This legislative proposal really meets a question that lives with the population and not just with the mommies. Daddy's gonna be happy too. Many organisations are also very satisfied, such as the Women's Council, the Family Union, the trade unions and the Flemish Association for Gynaecology. They were in favour, too. The National Labour Council, which, after a year and a half, gave an opinion on a question I asked, is also in principle in agreement with it. The NAR wanted a phased introduction, but because of the corona crisis we are caught in speed and we are obliged to act faster. I don't regret that either. It's a good thing we've taken care of this for everyone all of a sudden. I believe that today, with our joint legislative proposal, we have eliminated a great injustice. The previous scheme penalised unintended women who had to quit earlier, either because they were ill, or because they had fallen into temporary unemployment because of a case of force majeure, or because they were removed from the workplace. This bill is now putting this right. That is a really important and good step. I would therefore like to thank all those who have contributed to this from far or near, the initiators themselves, but also all the groups that have supported, signed and amended the proposal. Of course, I would also like to thank Mrs Muylle for the support she has given us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u105	Mr President, we are before a bill that is very important in the fight for equality between men and women in our society. These inequalities are still far from being eliminated and the discrimination referred to here is part of them. It is very important for us to be able to contribute constructively to this bill and to support the authors of it. Women workers must be able to reconcile family and working life. They are entitled to 15 weeks' rest when they have a baby. However, if, for reasons x or y, they are required to take sick days during the six weeks prior to delivery, those days are withdrawn from their leave. This proposal was initially linked to VOCID-19. Secondly, amendments were added to make it a structural and long-term proposal. I do not see why the current situation would prevent us from conducting a democratic reflection and debate on the subject and the opportunities created by this situation. I hear criticism here, especially from the right-wing parties. I really do not accept the way in which my colleague from the MR explains that these would be dishonest political maneuvers aimed at using the VOCID-19 epidemic to move forward with this proposal. It is supported by all progressive organizations working for women's rights. The men and women who are part of these organisations, as well as the trade unions, will certainly not blame the progressive side of the Committee on Social Affairs, which has been able to bring about this great advance for women. The Belgian Federation of Enterprises (FEB) was not very enthusiastic, and the MR still complains about the companies that are being abused by the crisis. But, for us, this opportunity to give more rights to women workers could not be missed. We welcome the existence of this proposal and I thank the authors for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that today we can take an historic step forward in the area of women's rights. The proposal before us corrects an unjust situation. The injustice is that the current regime makes a distinction. Women with a problem-free pregnancy can stay with their baby for 14 weeks after delivery; for women with problems during pregnancy ranging from high blood pressure to pelvic instability, simply a flu or a cold or a broken leg, these are only nine weeks. The latter include women who are removed from work because of their health or the health of the baby. And that is just as often women in the care sector, women for whom we were applauding every night at 8 p.m. They will also be able to rely on the proposed scheme and thus stay with their babies for 14 weeks after their birth. It is true that the corona crisis made the existing injustice more acute. Pregnant women were massively put on temporary unemployment because of the corona crisis, which made all the groups realize the urgency of getting rid of this injustice. However, this injustice, highlighted by the corona crisis, must not make us forget the general injustice. In fact, there were discussions on this matter two years ago in the Chamber, and also in the current legislature, several groups have already submitted legislative proposals to rectify the situation. Several organisations have put their finger on the wound, in particular the Family Union, the trade unions and even the association of gynecologists. They argue that this scheme discriminates between women who have a problem-free pregnancy and women who do not. This can even have a huge impact on their health, because they notice that women who have high blood pressure before delivery, with risk of pregnancy poisoning, are doing everything they can to keep working. They continue to drag themselves to work in order to be able to keep those fourteen weeks after the birth. This happens in order to bond with their child, because this is a very important period, but also because of the lack of childcare. Honestly, usually the nursery is more aware of a pregnancy than its own mother or mother-in-law. After all, that is the only way to get a place in childcare in time. If the pregnancy does not go smoothly, then suddenly six weeks earlier one has to get a place in the crèches while those crèches are overcrowded everywhere. That is not obvious and a great deal has to be done in order to be able to get this reception sooner. The financial impact of this scheme has so far always been borne by individual women. If, for this reason, women had to return to work after nine weeks, then those who could afford it extended maternity leave on parental leave or even on unpaid leave, on the one hand, in order to establish a relationship with their child and, on the other hand, because of the lack of place in crèches. Of course one has to turn in on the income and women who cannot afford it drag themselves, sometimes not quite recovered from childbirth, to work. When children still have to breast-feed at night, of course one cannot concentrate on work as well as usual. Those women try to combine everything, but they find themselves getting sick faster in the first period of their return to work. They then again bear the consequences, both for their health and for their income. For this reason, in particular, I would like to call on my fellow Members to approve the legislative proposal. The NAR also expressed a positive opinion on the structural scheme in December. It is true that the employers suddenly committed themselves to working out the scheme technically, but I think that is rather because they felt it too hot being under pressure from Parliament. They saw that we could make progress by working together. It's June now. So far, no meeting was planned at the NAR. We have worked out the modalities. What are we waiting for to improve the situation structurally for women? I would like to call on everyone to approve the proposal so that we ensure that, regardless of their work situation and the course of their pregnancy, pregnant women can all count on 15 weeks of maternity protection, one week before delivery and fourteen weeks after delivery. Frankly, international experts also recognise that those fourteen weeks after the birth are very little. They say that a woman needs at least twenty weeks to bond with her child and recover from childbirth. Finally, I would like to thank all the organisations that have taken part in this process, from the Family Union, the Trade Unions, the Women's Council and the Flemish Association for Obstetrics and Gynaecology to all my friends with whom I campaigned together for this before the elections, all my friends on the side and the Chest Vooruit, one of whom is currently in that situation and unfortunately is just outside the scheme and has to extend her maternity leave with parental leave in order to organise it in a proper way and actually keep herself right. I would also like to thank all Members of this House. By working together, we have achieved this result. I had started by saying that this is a first historic step for women. Of course, even more is needed to ensure a proper reconciliation of work and family life, in order to achieve a fair division of labour within the family. There are still many proposals for extending paternity leave, so that this can be done in a more balanced way. I am convinced that this bill can make a huge difference to the many women who are in that situation and to the families who are now sitting with little babies. It is also an important step for the small children, who can ensure a good bonding between Mom, Dad and the children.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u107	Mr President, I would like to pay tribute here to the instigator of all the reflections on the subject. This is a young mother who launched a petition in 2016 because she herself was directly affected by this penalty. It was in the wake of my contacts with her that I introduced a bill that I re-tabled under this Parliament. So you see, Mrs. Reuter, that it has been four years now that the debate is open to the House. Personally, I say so much better if, by penalising unemployment as a result of the VOCID-19, we have been able to move forward to deal with the various aspects. It is true that for the women concerned, whatever the reason, VOCID-19 and unemployment have accelerated the file. The starting point was clearly the double penalty for illness. There was not only the difficulty of being ill at the end of pregnancy, but also the difficulty of having a double sentence; in fact, women were penalized over the number of weeks to take in terms of postnatal leave. It is all the more crucial to solve this problem because not all mothers are on equal footing. There are half-mamans, those who are affected by the corrections made by these laws, and other mothers, such as public servants, who can benefit from a postponement of their weeks taken on prenatal leave as a result of illness and carry them back on their post-natal leave. For us, it was important that the cost should not be borne by the employer, but by social security and solidarity. Finally, I heard comments today that this text would be against women and their place at work, and could discriminate against them. I register falsely in relation to that. First and foremost, because there is no obligation to postpone the 15 weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u108	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u109	No, Mrs Reuter, there is no obligation: review the current legislation! It will be a faculty for the women concerned. They will be able to avoid the double penalty imposed on them. Others, such as public servants, are not subject to this penalty. In this respect, I believe that what can be a real discrimination is to be a young mother who has to return to work in advance of others. She may find herself in difficulty, either because of an infant's problem or because of an inability to provide everything herself. She still gave birth. It's good to transfer some of the leave to the spouse and think about it, but physiologically, it's still the woman who gives birth. When she is ill at the end of pregnancy, it is known that the postnatal is doubly more complicated, for pure and harsh physiological reasons. That's what the doctor tells you. If you had a certain colleague behind you in the room, he would tell you that the gynaecologists fully share what I have just said. These women, who, for personal or foetus-related medical reasons, are expected to return early to nine weeks after delivery, can also be effectively discriminated against in their work. Finally, it doesn't do anyone any good. They must resume after sick leave. Therefore, they have to leave work again. In this case, it can be said that difficulties are clearly added. It would have been much better if they had a number of additional weeks before returning to work. This also complicates the reality of the employer, first of all in terms of cost. Let's call a cat a cat. If they take sick leave in a second stage, the employer will first be responsible for the employer for one month. And this complicates the employer's task because a woman who returns to work after giving birth and then goes on sick leave in a second step does not facilitate the organization within the company either. So, before talking about discrimination against women in the context of their work by simply allowing them not to be subjected to a double penalty, namely the illness and amputation of postnatal maternity leave, I invite you to look at the situation as a whole and to take into account, first and foremost, the realities of the field from the medical point of view – and I stress again on this point – but also from the point of view of work. If these young women wish to return to work earlier, they will be able to do so, but if they need to benefit from the total number of weeks of leave, they will have the opportunity to return to work more serenely with a slightly older infant and therefore, no doubt, also with a little less difficulty in terms of re-entering and returning to work. I'm done with this, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u110	Mrs Fonck, I was going to interrupt to give Mrs Reuter the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u111	I knew it, Mr. President. If necessary, I'll intervene later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u112	Mrs. Fonck, you're a total transvestite. On the principle of this postponement, we fully agree. I said it again: it is unfair to deprive a mother of these weeks of maternity leave after birth; and it is unfair that a mother who would be forced to take leave before birth should have what I called a "double sentence", since she would not be able to benefit fully from the postnatal leave, when she did not choose it. Don't make me say what I didn't say! I never said we didn't agree on the substance. Even though this may still create abuse, because we know that a mother at the end of pregnancy can be tired – I have three children, I know what I'm talking about – and can very well say "I'm going to rest, I'm not going to work today" – and we know that some doctors are more complacent than others. But I'm going to put that in parentheses, because that's not the main point. The main point is that there is an agreement in principle between the social partners. All employers, too, agree that this is an injustice that needs to be addressed. All they asked for was a phasage. You say we've been discussing this problem for four years. What were they asking for? Three more weeks. Was it too much to ask for a comprehensive agreement? That's my point. We were not able to listen to the agreement of the social partners, who promised a decision by the end of June. From then on, everyone agreed, we agreed on a phase, the employers arranged for it to work. What perverse effect will this have on women and future mothers? There will be a crackdown at the employer level. Employers will, once again, think twice before hiring a young woman if they have to choose between a man and a woman of the same qualification and the same skills. And that is what I regret. All because we didn't want to wait three weeks. There, indeed, this poses a real problem to me!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u113	Mrs Reuter, I disagree with you. I'm waiting for you to give me figures on this theory of women's abuse at the end of pregnancy. You are presenting this to us as if we were not to change things, because this might increase abuses. I'm leaving that aside. It pains me that you support such a theory. As far as employers are concerned, my text was sent to the social partners. They gave a positive opinion. If this text is voted on, the fact that it will encourage employers to reduce the recruitment of women is to consider employers in an incredibly sexist way. Rather, I trust the majority of employers to think that they are not going to use this text to avoid hiring women. I hope that employers will rise up so that they do not do so. I thought at MR, you had more confidence in the ability of employers to see that it is also to their advantage that women can return to work in the best possible conditions. I thought at MR, you had confidence in the ability of employers to see that women have many skills. I have a vision other than yours. Maybe some employers don't want to hire women today. I'm not naive. Nevertheless, I believe that the majority of employers will behave with a great sense of responsibility with regard to the engagement of women, as they already do today. We have a different approach, which is not excluded in politics.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u114	Mr. President, I've been taken out. Just one word: if we didn't trust employers, we wouldn't have fought to leave them the extra few weeks they asked for to be able to organize this change in legislation. That is all we were asking for, since, once again, in principle, we agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u115	Mrs Fonck, you also agree with the employers. So there's no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u116	Mrs Reuter, do you know what employers wanted? They wanted it not to be their responsibility and the text does not provide for it to be their responsibility. That was really important.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u117	I thank Mrs Fonck and Mrs Reuter for this exchange and I give the floor to Mrs Rohonyi.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this important debate. The purpose of this proposal is to redress a profound injustice that has been experienced and that is still being experienced by too many women today. Today, women who are unable to work before the birth of their child for reasons that are completely beyond their control (illness, accident, unemployment) automatically lose six weeks of their prenatal leave. Our legislation is thus at the origin of what has really become a two-speed maternity leave, that is, a leave which rewards, on the one hand, women who have had the opportunity to work up to seven days before their presumed date of birth and, on the other hand, those who have unfortunately not had that opportunity. The latter must then carry out heavy administrative procedures in order to be reimbursed for the guaranteed salary received during the incapacity. As I said, this situation affects many women. Who among us has not, in his entourage, a friend, a neighbour, a colleague who encountered complications during her pregnancy and who, because of this pregnancy at risk, had to stop her work temporarily, prematurely, and thus see her maternity leave planed because of this forced arrest? It is true, then, that the draft law should initially be temporary, with only the period of temporary unemployment which occurred during the prenatal leave when this stoppage of work occurred during the crisis. It was thus intended to put an end to this double penalty, which affects all women who have been temporarily unemployed since the beginning of the crisis and who, as if that were not enough, have seen their maternity leave shortened, where women who have been able to continue working or teleworking during confinement have been entitled to this full maternity leave of fifteen weeks. Very quickly, it is true, the authors of the proposal – whom I would like to thank – have wondered why, from the moment we were given the opportunity to put an end to this injustice, we should limit ourselves to the health crisis and not put all women on an equal footing once and for all or fail to respond to the request made by the National Labour Council last December. In committee, and again in this sitting, some have regretted this development, particularly in view of the cost involved. Today, I hear another argument that women would be more penalized and discriminated against in the labour market. For us, neither of these two arguments can be accepted, especially when we know that the duration of maternity leave in Belgium – which spans four weeks – is already one of the shortest in the European Union. A European directive requires maternity leave to last at least 14 weeks. In addition, Défi has tabled a bill to provide fathers and co-parents with the possibility of birth leave equal to that of the mother. To go back to this bill, neither can your two arguments be accepted with regard to the importance of maternity leave for the proper physical, social and psychological development of children, for families and, ultimately, for society in general. It is therefore certainly not a provision that we should be depriving ourselves of for budgetary reasons, not to mention that, since the beginning of the crisis, several sectors and profiles have benefited from budgetary support measures – initiatives which were, of course, fully justified. This support, women must also be able to benefit from it. In order to do so, we must ensure that all of them – regardless of their social or professional situation – are granted full maternity leave of 15 weeks to which they are entitled. It is simply a matter of re-establishing equality between all women for the so crucial and unique period that the first weeks after delivery represent, both for them and their rest and for their child and the relationship that they must build with him. The health crisis is now an electroshock in many sectors. It highlights the inefficiency and counter-productive nature of certain systems, which deserve reform for greater fiscal, social and environmental justice. It also highlights the injustices we have long known, but which – given the economic context – are such that this crisis must be understood as an opportunity to put an end to it. My group therefore very enthusiastically supports this bill, which puts an end to an injustice that affects all women who have paid a heavy toll on this crisis, an injustice towards those who have made it possible to fight against coronavirus. I am thinking in particular of all the women who have mobilized in nursing and nursing homes, hospitals, nurseries, supermarkets, but also in their homes. The vote that will take place just now will, in a way, be a very concrete way of thanking all these women, but also all the associations, including the League of Families, which have for years been calling for no longer to assimilate the incapacity that occurred in the six weeks preceding the birth to prenatal maternity leave. We are indeed experiencing an unprecedented health, social and economic crisis, a crisis that has reinforced the social inequalities already existing before the onset of this crisis. If we can end, today, even if only one of these many social inequalities, let us not deprive ourselves of them. The women, the young parents, the parents who are in the process look at us, look at you. Don't disappoint them!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u119	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill before you today is the story of repeated injustice. This is the story of a mother who had contractions at 36 weeks of pregnancy and had to stop working to preserve her baby. It is the story of a mother who did not want to stop working, despite too high a tension, daily back pain, fatigue, water retention, because she wanted to safeguard her postnatal leave. It is the story of a mother who is unemployed because of force majeure and who de facto loses weeks of postnatal leave. It is the story of a mother who returned to work after nine weeks of rest – everyone knows that these weeks are anything but relaxing – without the energy needed to perform are work properly. It's the story of a mother who hasn't slept or recently since her baby was born and who counts the days before the end of her leave, the pains she has after childbirth and who keeps reminding her that it's only been eight weeks since her baby was born. It is therefore the story of all these mothers who found themselves torn between the desire to be with their infants that they had to leave too quickly and their work that they were not yet able to resume correctly, despite the best will in the world. It's mostly the story of these babies. At 9 weeks, an average baby is 60 cm and weighs 5 kg. It is small, very small, too small to imagine a separation with its family environment. This separation is also dangerous for his health, immunity and primary need for security. So, in this Parliament, we wanted to rewrite this story. For several weeks now, in the midst of an unprecedented health crisis, the Social Affairs Committee has decided to stop at an imperfect mechanism whose injustice was reinforced by the increase in the use of unemployment for force majeure. Indeed, if during the last six weeks of her pregnancy a woman was placed in temporary unemployment, this period was automatically converted into prenatal maternity leave. The duration of the postnatal maternity leave was therefore planed to last six weeks. This situation was unbearable because it was unjust and inadequate for the first days of such a precious life. I heard in this House this afternoon that there was injustice, that everyone agreed on it, that we had to be careful, that we had to find a solution and that at the same time we had to wait. It's been four years. Some have said so, my colleagues have said so. I'm not going to go back to polemic. It took more than two years to get an opinion and then, wait again, another month, without any guarantee of an answer. For me, when there's injustice, it's simple, there's an emergency. So we don't wait and work! I have also heard that there would be a possible problem of women's involvement, a kind of discrimination in hiring. Let's imagine, this could happen and it falls well because we share the same idea of dealing with this problem of discrimination in hiring. There is one solution: to extend paternity or co-parental leave. I have heard that there is therefore a will to avoid discrimination. I take note of this for future committee work. During these debates in committee, questions relating to the economic impact were raised. We believe that these cannot be economic priorities when it comes to public health, but since the subject has been discussed, let us talk about it! The impact of a woman's hasty return to her place of work and the arrival of a baby too small in a host environment is fatigue, stress, a parental burn out for one and, for the baby, they are recurrent diseases, the absence of vaccine in some cases, the premature interruption of breastfeeding. All these inevitable consequences of too short a postnatal leave necessarily have an impact on social security. It is not for nothing that the European average duration of maternity leave is greater than what we currently propose. What the corrected maternity leave system proposes is to cover the first 98 days of a life by postnatal leave. Is it not normal for an infant to receive the best possible care during the first 98 days of his life? Is it not obvious that a mother needs a minimum of 98 days to recover from pregnancy, childbirth and to build a secure and caring relationship with her child? To these two questions, the Ecolo-Groen Group replied in the affirmative! That is what prompted us to table this bill and defend it in committee, and finally submit it to this House today. Maternity implies rights that must be protected. Today, we have the opportunity to act and resolve a debate that has been going on for too long, as some have pointed out here. I will conclude by saying that I have experienced a pregnancy that can be described as quiet, a bearable childbirth and a serene postnatal leave. And I can tell you that I've been thinking ten times, a hundred times, a thousand times about all those women who haven't had that chance. And I will be very proud to tell all these future mothers that they will no longer have to find makeshift solutions or queer a few days off here and there to hold on. I will be proud to say that this Parliament has felt that it is time to redress an injustice, that it has advanced on a fundamental right for women who are, or will one day be, mothers. I wanted to say thank you to all these political groups who worked in committee, who wanted to move forward. Really, a real big thank you! And then thank you to those associations that have worked, that have asked us, that have continued to do so, that have recalled this important fight. Thank you very much because I am very pleased that we are here today to vote on this text on postnatal leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u120	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u121	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1231/8) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1231/8) The title has been amended by the Commission to "proposal for a law amending the periods which occurred during prenatal rest and which may be taken into account for the extension of postnatal rest". The title was changed by the Committee to "draft legislation amending the periods during pre-birth rest and taking into account the extension of post-birth rest." The bill has 8 articles. The bill has 8 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u122	Art. 8 • 20 – Florence Reuter cs (1231/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u123	Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u124	Sustained: the amendment and Article 8.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u125	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 7.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u126	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment retained, the article retained, and on the whole will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u127	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Nadia Moscufo, Steven De Vuyst, Greet Daems, Roberto D'Amico, Raoul Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u128	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1165/4) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1165/4) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u129	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u130	I am asked to present the motion for a resolution with two speakers, but a sequence of speakers has already been established. You may register for the discussion, but Mr Spoorten will be the first to speak anyway. The rapporteur comes first and then the speakers follow in the general discussion. In doing so, I must respect the order of the political groups. Mr Spooren, Mrs Dedonder, Mr De Vuyst, Ms Moscufo, Mrs Vanrobaeys and Mrs Matz signed up for the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u131	Mr. President, I'm new here. Should I not first explain my resolution?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u132	No. You had a discussion in committee. There is a general discussion and there is a written report to which the rapporteur referred.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u133	I wouldn't have access to the microphone because I didn't sign up?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u134	If you wish, I will give you the floor during the debate. It's not complicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u135	Mr President, given the impatience of some Members to speak, I shall be very brief. We will not support this motion for a resolution. The aim is, of course, noble, namely to support people from the cultural sector in these COVID-19 times. However, we believe that there are already a number of mechanisms to do so. Furthermore, COOVID-19 measures should not undermine a number of basic principles of social security, as is the case in many proposals. The degressivity of unemployment benefits is now being stopped by three months as part of the corona measures. In addition, the reference period during which artists have to prove activities in order to claim the artist's status or to fix the degressivity for one year is extended by three months. Thus, measures have already been taken, so that artists do not suffer too much from the inability to work during the corona crisis. The proposal calls for a step further and for a fourth reduction in the number of working days required to qualify for unemployment benefit during the period from 1 May to 30 September. In this way, a whole group of people could claim full unemployment benefit based on a lower number of days worked over a longer reference period. However, we would like to point out that days of temporary unemployment are also treated as working days today. Temporary unemployed, including artists, do not lose working days in this sense. In general, I have already said that, as our social security with the high number of sick and unemployed is so under pressure from the corona crisis, we do not really want to create a smooth access to ordinary unemployment benefits. The proposal also calls for better and easier access to the temporary unemployment system. We believe that there is already a possibility today of receiving temporary unemployment benefits on the basis of unpaid benefits for cancelled events in the cultural sector. This can even be done without an employment contract being signed, on the basis of, for example, some written evidence, such as mail traffic. The text now proposes that those who have worked in the sector for a number of days during the three months before 1 April 2020 should not be given access to temporary unemployment benefits, regardless of whether there were plans to carry out certain activities after 1 April 2020. In our view, the temporary unemployment benefit should be used to protect those whose work is lost due to unforeseen circumstances and not so much to provide an increased benefit to those who would not have worked in the first place. Our group will therefore not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u136	Mr President, since the tabling of our proposals for a structural reform in favour of the cultural and artistic sector, several months, in the context of the crisis, or should I say several years, outside it, have passed. These proposals are in favour of artists and technicians in the wider sector. I'm telling you, I felt pretty isolated. I therefore very much welcome all the initiatives of the various political groups which are gradually arriving in recent weeks. For speaking of culture is not anecdotal, first of all, from the point of view of workers in the cultural and creative sector. This concerns 250,000 people, who are waiting to be finally put on the front of Parliament's stage. They expect concrete action. Beyond that, culture is an essential element of a dynamic society. Culture disappoints us from ourselves and opens us to others. It broadens our field of reflection, forms our critical mind. It is a real vector of development, sharing, communication, exchanges, struggle against isolation and social bond. It contributes fully to the well-being of all citizens. That is why in the Socialist Party we defend culture and have always been at the side of its actors. Today, in this crisis that we are experiencing, the least we can say is that artists and technicians are particularly ill-treated. The ban on gatherings has deprived many artists and technicians of work and remuneration. Since 13 March, the cancellations of performances have followed. The majority of the contracts with the organisers provide that, in the event of force majeure, the contract is suspended or cancelled automatically and without compensation. While the situation is complicated for all workers, it is even more complicated for workers who, because of intermittent work, do not have access to unemployment benefits or artist status. These workers find themselves without any resources, in a very precarious situation. The exceptional situation associated with the VOCID-19 pandemic requires strong measures to protect workers and ensure that they are able to support themselves. It must also lay the foundations for more structural solutions, past the crisis. The proposals I have put forward on behalf of the PS, which have been voted on by the majority in the Social Affairs Committee at first reading in recent weeks, are in this direction: that which allows all intermittent workers in the artistic sector, artists and technicians, to obtain unemployment benefits if they can demonstrate either five artistic performances or ten days of work as an artist or technician; that which allows the cumulation of unemployment benefits with income from artistic activity; that which introduces a white period for obtaining and maintaining the status of artist. We will have an opportunity to come back to this in the coming weeks, as new votes are scheduled on the agenda. This motion for a resolution is in the right direction, but it seems to me to be restrictive, as it goes less far than the legislative proposals that we have tabled and which have already been adopted by the Committee on Social Affairs. Here is an example: in the measures proposed here to protect and facilitate access to artist status, you are asking for a 25% reduction in the working days to be demonstrated in order to access unemployment benefits, and an extension of the six-month reference period for the arts sector. This conflicts with what we adopted at first reading in the Committee on Social Affairs. In fact, in our proposal, we are going from 312 working days to 10 working days. So we're well beyond a 25% reduction. And we're asking for the freeze from March 13 to December 31, so much more than six months. I really insist: I welcome the proposals that are being brought forward, the willingness of several political groups to move now towards a better factual recognition of artists and technicians. The sector aspires to a clear and coherent framework in which they all find themselves, which is not the case today. They showed it to us during the auditions. This clear and coherent framework is for all of us to guarantee it to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u137	Mr President, first of all I have a very supportive thought for all the workers in the cultural sector who, for more than three months, have been part of all those workers who have been somewhat forgotten in this crisis of the VOCID-19. I am therefore pleased that this resolution is put to the vote here. We tabled it two months ago precisely to deal with this social distress of workers in the cultural sector. When I talk about cultural workers, I talk about workers in the broad sense because they are really the cultural heritage that has a diversity of jewels. As such, I am thinking of framers, make-up artists, podium assemblers, decorators, costume designers, cameramen, artists, intermittents, employees, self-employed and all the others. It is in fact 250,000 workers in this sector who too often find themselves in the shadows and are now facing a real social bloodbath. It is therefore a multitude of professions that are going through the current crisis. There are many reasons and, among the most important, there is undoubtedly the fact that, in this sector, all kinds of jobs are precarious and flexible. They are too many to be technical or intermittent and to accumulate very short contracts. In addition to the obvious risk of impoverishment, it is a constant anxiety that is inflicted on them. The enormous impact of the crisis on this sector is therefore not the result of chance. It is the consequence of a situation that was already very worrying before the VOCID for the whole sector. As I said, this has been going on for more than three months. Three months, for many of them, without replacement income. For this reason, we ask the government to facilitate and protect access to the status of artist because, for the time being, these workers only have a status that is not really one of them and that excludes many of them. However, it is the opposite that we want, and the crisis unfortunately gives us reason. Indeed, we want a status that is as protective and as inclusive as possible. In addition, I would like to stress the constructive climate – we are not alone in saying this – that we have had in the Social Affairs Committee since we discussed this sector. We had the chance to hold an entire day of hearings with more than 20 speakers. Since the tabling of our motion for a resolution, other bills have been tabled, including that of the Socialist Party, which will be voted on next week and which we will obviously support. Together, we call on the government to extend temporary unemployment in cases of force majeure to all workers in the cultural sector throughout the period of the health crisis. This is an indispensable measure for us because without it, it is the whole sector that we are going to let die – and I am weighing my words. The number of people who do not receive replacement income during this crisis is insane. This is all the more unfair because the time spent by many workers in the production of their works is not taken into account in the calculation of the right to unemployment. Again, it is all together that we must continue to work to expand temporary unemployment for these workers. The statements made by the various speakers at the hearings were unanimous in this regard. We have to get out of the water all those people who go under the social protection radars while they work hard. Finally, we regret that one of our requests could not be taken into account, following the various amendments tabled. I want to talk about our proposal to ask the government to organize a much more effective collaboration between the different entities of our country so that we can work together rather than get out of the measures on their side. In any event, with our resolution, we wish to relay the demands of the trade unions and the various professional federations representing this sector. We also want to echo the artistic world and the cultural world, which repeatedly sounded alarms during the crisis. I am thinking in particular of the carte blanche which was signed by 300 Belgian personalities, including Adamo and the Dardenne brothers, who wanted to alert the population to this ongoing social tragedy. I am also thinking of the manifesto for culture, which has received more than 13,000 signatures. Our motion for a resolution therefore represents a significant step forward for all 250,000 cultural workers who are waiting for answers. Finally, I would like once again to thank all the parties which, in committee, supported our motion for a resolution, namely the PS, the sp.a and Ecolo-Groen, by telling them that we will continue to reach out to them to improve the situation of these workers further through the various bills that will be tabled on the table. I therefore appeal to the other parties to think well before they vote. Indeed, a consensus had been reached in committee to recognize the existence of a problem. However, when things come to fruition, work can be slowed down. I would also like to thank the authors of the amendments that have still been tabled today in order to improve our motion for a resolution. I think, among other things, of the Socialist Party and the CDH, which we will obviously support. I have to report to you the testimony of a distraught technician with no replacement income, to the point that he was forced to turn to the CPAS to ensure that he was able to find a response to his family's basic needs. In addition to a very difficult present, he saw the anguish of the future. He was supposed to work on a stage in the Antwerp area at the beginning of this month, but that will not be possible. Finally, I will take the words of Fabian Hidalgo, the representative of the Gathering of the Intermittents of the Arts Sector, whom we received during the hearings in committee. In his view, as long as the halls cannot be filled to 100 per cent, festivals cannot accommodate all their visitors, and literary or audiovisual releases are postponed, the public authorities will have to provide the necessary support to workers who cannot normally resume their activities. This must be a priority for all of us, because no one should be left on the tile. That is why we ask you to respond together to this social emergency and to support our motion for a resolution. Subsequently, another reform will have to be considered in order to apply an artist's status worthy of the name. I therefore welcome the convergence we have achieved and thank the CDH and the Socialist Party for their amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u138	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat the impact of corona on the cultural and event sector. The text published by Amplo, a social secretariat in the sector, with his figures, was striking to me. They indicate that corona has entered their sector as an atomic bomb: first the flash, now the shock wave and the radiation will resonate for a long time. That is why we held a hearing last week in the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions with various representatives from the sector. Those testimonies were sometimes very poignant. Despite all the relaxations of temporary unemployment or income compensation, not everyone proved to be covered by a replacement income. It is mainly about freelancers and technicians working on the basis of day-to-day contracts, whose contracts were cancelled massively. For them, the relaxation still raises too many questions, for example about Dimona returns, in order to get a satisfactory answer to their income problem. Attention was also drawn to the problems of young start-ups with cancelled assignments. Starters who do not yet have any spares and who were preparing projects. They cannot simply bridge this period without a reserve. The specific nature of this sector, which often involves short contracts, but also seasonal contracts, or where events require a long preparation period, requires specific measures for them. When Werchter is cancelled in July, Werchter will not suddenly continue on September 1. The income of everyone who works there, from catering to technicians and performing artists, is not simply postponed by two months. This takes such a preparation time and is so seasonal that the event actually goes away completely. The same applies to smaller events, where products are launched, for example. Once the product has been launched, the moment is over and for the entire chain setting up such an event is the moment and the chance of income past tense. The National Security Council gave a partial perspective yesterday, albeit with a lot of limitations. This sector is comparable in this respect to the catering industry. Of course, people are enthusiastic about getting back to work, but for health reasons, restrictions are imposed on the number of spectators admitted, and this is fully understandable. The sector therefore calls for additional support to be provided in order to survive this crisis. We can, of course, support the amendments tabled by CdH to the resolution. In the motion for a resolution we are calling for an extension of temporary unemployment, an extension of the right of bridging, a relaxation of access to the artist's status in unemployment, and also a relaxation of young start-ups. We are asking for an extension of nine months, whereas originally three or six months were foreseen. The only amendment in which we will not go along is that on tax deduction. Of course, we want to support the cultural and event sector in every possible way, but we do not believe that there is a need to add an extra barn to these tax houses. It's complicated enough as it is. We believe that this can also be done in other ways. I believe that we all agree on this. That is why we agreed in committee with various groups to continue discussing the legislative proposals on this subject next Tuesday. Initiatives have been taken from all sides. I believe that everyone has the intention to consult properly in committee and to see how we can come up with a clear and sound package of measures for the cultural and event sector. However, there should be no overlap. It must be an additional package of measures which will come in addition to the measures which the government may take in implementation of this resolution. We must not get in the way of this sector. This sector does not need it at all. This sector needs us to work together and ensure that it has good support. I hope that we will get there on Tuesday in committee. I think we all agree that we must not let the cultural sector go to waste. The culture sector brings people together and in this COOVID-19 period the culture sector brings comfort and hope. After all, nobody can imagine a lockdown without music, a good book, a good movie or an exciting television series. In addition to these temporary measures and the re-launch measures that we propose in this resolution and which we will continue to discuss in committee, our group also wants to commit itself to improving working conditions in the cultural sector and improving the artist's status. Some think it's a sector where people are creative and this creative process doesn't really represent much. Nothing could be further from the truth. It is also an important economic sector. At present, this creative process is not paid for, or is not appreciated, but rehearsals, designing projects, trying to sell projects, making preparations, doing business studies and research: all this is part of the creative process, which leads to the very beautiful creations that we eventually see. It is not only the end point, that beautiful creation, that is to be reimbursed, but also the whole process there. We are prepared to work on the structural improvement of the artist's statute, so that artists not only get applause at the end of their process, but also have a worthy statute, allowing them to live through that creative process.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u139	Mr President, I would like to thank the various colleagues who have been mobilizing for weeks to try to find emergency solutions and to draw the lines of the future in relation to the cultural sector, which is suffering in full from the VOCID-19 crisis. It is clear that before this crisis, there were already many calls from the cultural sector to review this status, which bears only its name, since it is relatively complicated, unreadable and does not correspond at all to what the arts workers are experiencing. I am thinking of the last legislature in which a series of texts – which had been co-signed by Catherine Fonck in particular – were tabled, but on which we could not succeed due to the lack of a majority. Today, it is a matter of taking emergency measures. That is what the resolution proposed by the PTB calls for. These emergency measures are strong and we support them because they are essential to address situations in which people find themselves without any income. This is indeed the difficulty of the cultural sector because, for periods during which there is no benefit, it is considered not to be "working" and there is therefore no income. The paradigm has to be completely changed since artists work, repeat, write. There is a whole series of out-of-contract benefits that must be taken into account. Putting them in the field of unemployment is not acceptable to them or to us. They are workers, quite simply, and they must be taken into account. In our future reflections, we will have to take this aspect of things into account in reforming what is called the Statute. Not only through the federated entities, where action has been taken and is still going to be taken, but also at the federal level, it is up to us in our respective jurisdictions to be as proactive and ambitious as possible in relation to the expectations we have raised. We had a very nice day of hearings where everyone came to speak and put on the table all the problems of the sector. And we think we need to be able to take that into account. We must not just listen to them, but above all hear them in their demands. That is why we have taken the initiative to table some amendments in addition to this text. Indeed, we believe that certain requests must be heard and that they were not. This motion for a resolution was necessarily prior to the hearings. We are asking for four amendments. The main thing for us is that the reference period is as long as possible. Restricting itself to a very short reference period does not correspond to demand, whereas demand has been formulated extremely strongly by the sector. Through legislative proposals tabled by the PS, in particular, it is clear that there is a reference period on which there would be an agreement. We believe, and this is the subject of an amendment that we are tabling with the DéFI Group, that we must go further. Indeed, once the sector has resumed its activities, it will obviously require a buffer period during which the total recovery can take place. It is really essential for us that this reference period be as long as possible. Ideally, we would have liked it to cover the entire year 2021, but we certainly want it to go until March, one year after the closure of activities in 2020. A second amendment concerns a temporary period for the status of artist. As long as we reflect on a total and lasting status, we want a temporary period of lightening the conditions for entry into this status, especially for all those who had a file in progress prior to the cessation of activities, those who can attest to income related to copyright or employment contracts over the last five years, and those who are in the artistic labour market in the broad sense and have a degree from an arts school. It is also essential to have this buffer period, which allows for the widening of the base of beneficiaries of this status pending a more complete status. Our third amendment is intended to support the sector by means of a cultural check which will allow everyone to spend 500 euros on cultural activities and cultural products. These 500 euros will of course be deductible. A final amendment is aimed at working on the status by establishing an intersectoral commission to work with all cultural sectors in order to put this final status in place. Much is invested in basic and applied research. It's essential. Investing in culture is just like research because it's about supporting creative work and it's something that's for the benefit of society as a whole and the general interest. We will have to decide new issues on Tuesday. We therefore support the texts which have been tabled by the Socialist Party in particular but also by others tabled by Ecolo and DéFI. As we have said, what matters to us is to be able to extend the reference period in a much wider way, as this has been an ongoing demand from the sector during our hearing days. We are extremely vigilant at this point because we want to respond to that demand. We are waiting on Tuesday to be able to achieve more. Here, this is a resolution that is already a little overtaken by the votes that are likely to take place at second reading next Tuesday. Nevertheless, we would really like these amendments to be able to incorporate the text in order to give our support. Indeed, we would have a comprehensive package of measures in the short term and, of course, a little more in the long term to reflect on the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u140	Mr President, I wanted to make a short speech as chairman of the committee. Within this committee, the activity is very intense and very dynamic. The artistic, event and cultural sector was finally heard in committee. Of course we're happy about that. I would like to make at least three points. First, I heard a lot after this day of hearings that it was a historic moment. I appeal to all colleagues to stop it being "historical" and to make artists, arts workers and the cultural world more heard by this federal Parliament. During these hearings, we took full measure of the importance of hearing them, and of understanding how they work on the ground. That explains the fact that all these texts are now coming to committee, and that this resolution is being amended. These hearings provided a better understanding of the needs. That will be my second point. We have clearly identified four priorities and perhaps a fifth. With regard to the White Year, it is important to recognize that the cultural sector will take more time in its redeployment and that this will have to be considered. It will be necessary to reflect on this status as an artist, and to ensure that an artist or art worker is considered in practice as a worker, not as someone who receives an unemployment benefit, but as a worker who needs, intermittently, support to enable him to create, produce, train, express himself, and lead to a creative project. I also wanted to point out that we are working on these bills, but that perhaps we should also work more for those who, for the time being, remain forgotten because they pass between the meshes of the net. I appeal here, seeing the work that begins with this resolution of the PTB, which is a kind of entry into the field, an aperitif. I hope that we can quickly switch to the main course and then to dessert and then, in a few months' time, carry out parliamentary work which will lead, after an observation, to the realization of the status of artist, to work on copyright and to redeployment for the artistic, event and cultural sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u141	Mr President, my colleague, Nadia Moscufo, has already said a lot, but I would like to add a few more things. The resolution we tabled in committee two months ago is not only for the many artists and artists who have seen black snow over the last few weeks and months. It is also intended to find a solution for the many cultural workers who often work behind the scenes or in the scenes. I am thinking, for example, of the decor builders, the technicians, the cameramen and camera women or the visa yeasts. Many of them have seen their assignments go up in smoke over the past few weeks and months. It is often also about young freelancers who depend on short contracts. Because of the nature of these contracts, they also have no right to temporary unemployment, let alone any unemployment allowance, because the artist's statute is currently very rigid. Of all cultural workers, some 250,000, there are only 3,000 who can claim it. A number of poignant testimonies have already been mentioned by colleagues. A very striking article was also published in the magazine rekto:verso, titled "Between the loopholes of the safety net: cultural workers testify." Allow me to quote the testimony of Zaza Dupont, scenographer, 25 years old. She studied as a scenographer and worked in the hospitality industry to pay for her studies. It had short-term contracts that do not entitle it to temporary unemployment. Nor is it entitled to ordinary unemployment because the productions for which it has worked for a very long time have not continued. She is now forced to make up her savings on rent and food. In the meantime, her boyfriend has also been put on technical unemployment. They now have to live at 1,150 euros a month. Two can't survive from that. So she went to the OCMW to find out if she is entitled to a living wage, but that would be barely 100 euros extra because there is such a thing as maintenance duty, while her friend and herself have no legal connection, because they just live together. She says, "There's zero social safety net for me right now." She has no idea what or who she can still call for help from. Colleagues, that is one of the many poignant testimonies that have been included in it. That is why we have three simple requests for the government through the resolution before us. Firstly, we must relax access to the artist's statute, especially now during the current period of force majeure. Secondly, we must also ensure that temporary unemployment can be extended to all workers and all cultural workers in the sector, without exceptions and throughout the period of the current health crisis. Finally, it is a pity that our last request has not been accepted by many amendments. This request is that in the future there should be better cooperation and better coordination between the different communities, in order to pursue an even better and more efficient cultural policy. It is a pity that this request has not been taken into account. Colleagues, I am also addressing the representatives of the Flemish parties who are also represented in the Flemish Government. They also recently announced that aid would be provided and that a plan had been drawn up. The Flemish government would come up with 68 million euros. She has given this a lot of publicity. For the record, that is a good thing. Michael De Cock, artistic director of the KVS, has also responded. He asked the interesting question whether this money was intended solely for the cultural houses and the recognized subsidised cultural organisations or whether it would also be allocated to all the cultural workers who are suffering even more now. If the colleagues of the Flemish parties in the Flemish government are serious about the fate of the cultural workers, now is the time to adopt the resolution. In this way, we will finally be able to offer a lot of people some perspective. It has just been mentioned by quite a few colleagues that we in the committee must make a thorough effort to reform the artist's statute so that cultural workers can be protected even more and better and not completely without income. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last few weeks we have breathed culture. We needed culture, because we were in the lockdown, in isolation, so we took refuge in entertainment, consolation and imagination. These are often products of the creativity of many artists, artists and cultural workers, who, with great passion for their profession, colour society with a very diverse palette. If we do not help these many cultural workers, our society will also lose its imagination and our critical capacity to think. We must not allow that to happen. That is why I call on you to do something in return for the many cultural workers who are currently having a very difficult time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u142	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u143	Demand 1/Question 1 • 9 years old Vanessa Matz cs (1165/5) Demand 4(n) / Request 4(n) • 10 – Vanessa Matz cs (1165/5) Demand 5(n) / Request 5(n) • 11 – Vanessa Matz cs (1165/5) Demand 6(n)/Question 6(n) • 12 – Vanessa Matz cs (1165/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u144	The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u145	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Reccino Van Lommel, Kurt Ravyts, Erik Gilissen, Nathalie Dewulf. The Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate proposes to reject this bill. (933/4) The Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate proposed that this bill be rejected. (933/4) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. The rapporteur, Kris Verduyckt, refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u146	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our proposal on extending the life of nuclear power stations and the possible construction of new power stations made sense in our view. We particularly regret that there has been no substantive debate in committee. The debate was rejected by many political parties, with a few exceptions. We thank the N-VA, sp.a and the PVDA, who finally dared to start the debate. All the other parties did not give home and the debate was therefore a sham. We have also tried to push the bill forward in 30 minutes during the initial discussion, including without consulting. In the debate, there were many reasons why we should not go for the extension of the lifetime of a number of nuclear power plants. It was even argued that nuclear power is part of the problem and that nuclear power stations are too old. At some point they even added the clay layers, as well as the investments in windmills and solar panels. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from the various debates on the CRM, even yesterday, that we will not get out by 2025, no matter what is decided. Whatever that vehicle will eventually look like, businesses and consumers will have to pay for it. Security of supply is at risk here. I therefore regret the attitude of Minister Marghem, who is always hiding behind the law on the core exit of 2003, when I ask oral questions in committee or when the word nuclear power stations falls. In my opinion that blue record is now turned grey. Anyway, 2025 will be here soon. If we do nothing, imports and thus dependence will increase to 38% of our energy needs by 2025. Do you want to bear that responsibility on your shoulders, do you want to increase import dependency in such a way that we are faced with problematic situations? I regret the attitude of the PVDA, which sees no problem of import dependence, as it sees no borders around Belgium. Where is your credibility when it comes to the affordability of energy, colleagues of the PVDA? Of course, the promised initiatives from the National Energy and Climate Plan, such as the offshore projects, are all needed, but they are not effective enough. We won't get there. They're drops on a hot plate. The only logical conclusion is that a lifetime extension should be made possible, but that does not exclude the other. I would like to say that we must go for a mix of energy supplies. Different slopes need to be worked out and followed in parallel. Take off your blinkers. Look at the other countries, for example France, where 70% of nuclear power supply is still available today. In the future this will be maintained at 50%. Everywhere in the world where nuclear power stations are located, we are going for a lifetime extension. In all the major economies of the world, nuclear energy is the most important source of energy. Leading engineers warn that we do not need to be embarrassed and should dare to opt for a lifetime extension. Today I read in the newspaper the statement by environmental economist Johan Albrecht, not necessarily the right-wing type, that a lifetime extension is necessary. Colleagues, what made me all the more shocked was the way in which the legislative proposal was voted. Article 1, which regulates a matter in the Constitution, was simply voted off. Why did you do that? You did that so you wouldn't have to confess to color. Even Mr De Croo stated in an interview on the radio that a lifetime extension is necessary, but when the discussion took place, the committee chairman happened to be absent. Colleagues, I think we should make a basic choice, a choice of common sense. In other words, we must have the courage to look at the security of supply and the affordability of our energy in the future. You could perfectly draw the bill as a stick back to the negotiating table with ENGIE Electrabel. Are we the only party that expects problems when, by 2025, all nuclear power stations will be shut down? Are we, then, the only far-sighted party that dares to shake the tree today and dares to warn about the problems? Ladies and gentlemen, let us correct this sham in committee, an absolute disgrace by the way in which the bill was dealt with and every decent debate was rejected, and vote against the rejection today. As a result, we can have a real and mature debate in committee, which has so far been lacking.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u147	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u148	- Mr Dominique Guide, auditor at the Court of Auditors, seconded as an adviser to the Prime Minister's strategic unit;
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u149	- Mrs Pascale Stenne, first auditor reviewer at the Court of Auditors;
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u150	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 June 2020, the curriculum vitae of the candidates will be forwarded to the political groups. The Sub-Committee on the Court of Auditors will hold a hearing with the candidates. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 June 2020, the curriculum vitae of candidates will be delivered to the political groups. The candidates will be heard by the Rekenhof sub-committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u151	Mr President, we have set the date for the hearings at 9 a.m. on 17 June. There are ten candidates and twenty minutes per candidate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u152	Excellent!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u153	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 June 2020, I propose that you transmit the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups. The Justice Committee will proceed to the hearing of the two candidates. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 June 2020, I propose that the curriculum vitae of the candidates be given to the political groups. Both candidates will be heard by the Justice Commission. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u154	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u155	Mr Laaouej, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1308/1 to consolidate the Health Care Staff Fund and to allocate the relevant funds for 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u156	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank all the parties and groups that have participated in this working group and that have been able to make progress. This is a particularly complicated and technical case, if any. I do not think it is necessary here to convince ourselves of the urgency of this bill to meet the needs of the sector, and we have discussed it extensively.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u157	Mr President, I am going in the same direction. I think this is a politically important moment in relation to this sector. In November, we have already conducted many debates on the importance of being able to give it this breath of oxygen. These 400 million are an important first step. Since then, a lot of water has flowed under bridges and I assume that we will also have to reopen the debates on other initiatives to be taken, but this one really deserves the urgency to be able to be quickly discussed in committee and to be approved in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u158	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u159	Mrs Kitir, you are asking for the urgency of the bill No. 1312/1 introducing an "early loss deduction" and a tax credit related to the losses of the year 2020 as a result of the COOVID-19 crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u160	Many companies and SMEs have restarted or are allowed to restart their activities. Some part of it, think of the catering industry. With this reopening, a lot of support measures are dropped. Due to the distance rules, however, there are now fewer customers and less sales. That is why we need additional support measures. This proposal provides an answer to this. Since we are still in the middle of the crisis, we are calling for urgent treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u161	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u162	The urgency is also requested for the legislative proposal No. 1315/1 to include legal and conventional holidays, holidays and leave in 2020 in response to the COOVID-19 crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u163	Mr President, the bill is COVID-19-related and it is also temporary, which is the two criteria for us. Most of the social agreements were concluded by mutual agreement at the end of 2019, i.e. before the COOVID-19 crisis. The organisation of work at the start-up may have been modified in such a way that the parties to the agreement should be allowed the social groups, employers and employees to change the previous collective agreements by mutual agreement, with due respect for existing social legislation. As the restart is ongoing, we ask for the urgent treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u164	I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u165	Mr Laaouej, you are asking for the urgency of the motion for a resolution to guarantee the right and access to sexual and reproductive health in the context of the VOCID-19 crisis, No 1317/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u166	Mr President, as we mentioned earlier, unfortunately, in addition to the physical health that is being achieved at this time of crisis of the coronavirus, we must also deplore problems of a more psychological or emotional nature. That is why we also wish to open a debate, with this motion for a resolution, on the other aspects related to the health of our fellow citizens in this time of crisis of the coronavirus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u167	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u168	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda of 27 May 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda of 27 May 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 14/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Leen Dierick. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 14/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Leen Dierick. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u169	One sector after another pulls the alarm bell. Some sectors are already getting a little more attention than others. One demands a little more attention from politics than the other. One of the sectors that will suffer for a long time from the corona crisis is undoubtedly the travel sector. On the supply side, they depend on the evolution of the pandemic worldwide. On the demand side, everything will depend on the passenger's confidence, which will have to be restored. Meanwhile, travel organizations moan and can barely keep their heads above water and many jobs are threatened. According to the Federation, the sector could only recover in the worst case by 2027. The travel sector hasn't had it easy and the bankruptcy of Thomas Cook is still fresh in our collective memory. We must also avoid a domino effect and an over-expansion of the travel organisation landscape would lead to an oligopolistic market situation. This would not be a good thing for consumers either. Like some other sectors, the travel sector requires particular attention. Our motion therefore calls on the government to continue its dialogue with the sector and to draw up a coordinated package of measures to enable the sector to overcome the crisis resulting from the outbreak of COVID-19. We call for the simple motion, which calls for the order of the day, not to be supported. We are calling for attention to be paid to the real reality, the real order of the day. We must not ignore problems in our society and must provide appropriate measures for every sector it needs. It's our duty as politicians. It is our job as representatives of the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u170	Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u171	Yes 92 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u172	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 143 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 144 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (944/9) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (944/9) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? (Mrs Katrien Houtmeyers, like her group, voted.)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u173	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 147 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1115/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1115/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u174	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 146 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 146 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1147/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1147/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u175	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 147 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 147 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1221/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1221/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u176	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 147 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 147 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (912/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (912/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u177	Vote on Amendment No 20 by Florence Reuter cs on Article 8. (1231/9) Vote on amendment No 20 by Florence Reuter cs to Article 8. (1231/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 51 Yes No. 96 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 147 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u178	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 98 Yes No. [[41]] No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1231/10) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1231/10) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u179	Vote on Amendment No 9 from Vanessa Matz cs on request 1. (1165/5) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Vanessa Matz cs at request 1. (1165/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 69 Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u180	Mr President, I unfortunately voted wrong in the previous vote. I voted for it when I'm against it. Before I know it, I'm gonna be a government here. I didn't mean to. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u181	Your correction will be noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u182	Vote on Amendment No 10 from Vanessa Matz cs to insert a request 4(n). (1165/5) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Vanessa Matz cs to insert a request 4(n). (1165/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 67 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 147 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 11 from Vanessa Matz cs to insert a request 5(n). (1165/5) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Vanessa Matz cs to insert a request 5(n). (1165/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes [[8]] Yes No. 101 No Abstentions 40 Abstensions Total 149 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 12 from Vanessa Matz cs to insert a request 6(n). (1165/5) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Vanessa Matz cs to insert a request 6(n). (1165/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 95 Yes No. [[28]] No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 147 Total The amendment was therefore adopted. Consequently, the amendment was adopted. I would remind you that, in the case of a motion for a resolution, Article 95 (3) of the Rules of Procedure (see Article 11 (1), second paragraph, of the Act of 6 April 1995 setting up the parliamentary consultative committee provided for in Article 82 of the Constitution and amending the coordinated laws of the Council of State) does not apply. We can therefore vote on the whole. I would remind you that in the case of a motion for a resolution, Article 95(3) of the Rules of Procedure (see Article 11, § 1, paragraph 2, of the Act of 6 April 1995 organising the parliamentary committee for consultation provided for in Article 82 of the Constitution and amending the coordinated laws on the Council of State) is not applicable. Therefore, we can proceed to the vote on the whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u183	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 68 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 149 Total The Court therefore rejects the motion for a resolution. Consequently, the House rejects the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u184	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u185	Yes 106 Yes Non 42 No. Abstensions 0 Abstentions Total 148 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 933/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 933/1 was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-04-55-plenair-ip043x.u186	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, June 11, 2020 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Thursday 11 June 2020 at 2.15 p.m.
