ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u2	The general discussion was resumed. The general discussion has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u3	Madam President, it appears that 11.15 a.m. has been an interest in the subjects. Mr Minister, we discussed taxation earlier in the general discussion, but I would like to go a little further on a number of taxes that are served and then on the fraud section. I shall begin with a rather striking passage from the coalition agreement, which is likely to come back a lot: no taxes will be introduced except in the context of the budgetary discussions, respecting the agreed balances, namely three times a third. One thing I have heard a great deal about and what is also stated in the coalition agreement is that the middle class will be spared and the strongest shoulders will bear the heaviest burdens. Your colleagues from the majority often talk about it. The government has only been working for a few months, but we are already getting quite a bit of taxation and taxes. I would like to address four specific issues. Firstly, a tax which we should not call a new tax, namely the security tax bis. You don't call them taxes. You say that it is a kind of solidarity contribution, a fair contribution from people with the greatest capacity, with respect for entrepreneurship. That's what the coalition agreement says. That's what it's supposed to be like. I have read the opinion of the Council of State on this, and that is a bit of a dilemma for you. Either you indicate that it is the intention to meet the people with the greatest capacity and then you have a major legal problem, because then you will probably not pass the equality test. That's what the Council of State says. Either you admit that this is an ordinary tax, with a purely budgetary objective, but at least one of your coalition partners will not be satisfied. In that opinion of the Council of State, which also contains the answers and comments of your cabinet and your administration, the choice has already been made. It states that the tax must be completely separate from the nature, quality and quality of the holder of the securities account. The objective of taxing large capacities is thus already completely abandoned in the design. It goes even further, because in the end the tax will end up partly on ordinary investors. I explained that earlier. I have given the example of the EUR 10,000 invested by an ordinary citizen in a branch 23 insurance. This will also be affected by the security tax because the insurance company that offers the insurance will have to pay the security tax and will charge it economically in the terms of that insurance. We also know, as has just been said, that the tax will have to be paid by local authorities, mutualities, intercommunals, all institutions that will do everything possible to deal with the corona crisis. One last element that has not been highlighted so far is the indirect effect that companies on the stock market become less attractive as investment. Many investors will move abroad, because the 0.15 % will weigh, which means that the Belgian stock exchange will become even less attractive and that there will be fewer alternatives for the Belgian saver who is already not getting a return on his savings account. I thought it was supposed to mobilise capital, not immobilize it. So we see that this tax will also affect other shoulders than the strongest shoulders. I would like to make a second point about this tax. The government agreement also states that the contribution will be part of the efforts needed in the current health context and the needs of health care. This has already been translated differently in the draft law, which provides for full social security benefits, 80% for employees and 20% for the self-employed. It is therefore not a question of financing health care needs directly, but of financing benefits and of closing a part of the gap in social security. There is an additional risk, because who says that this tap will not be opened every year, budgetary control after budgetary control, in order to help close the deficits in social security? A second tax I would like to talk about is the tax relief that also hides a tax increase. We just discussed tax care. I would like to come back to that. If we read the coalition agreement, which is the result of translation, it simply says that the tax-free allowance for grandparents, parents and dependent siblings over 65 years of age is increased. That passage is not literally translated into the program law. I told you this: only those who are 65 years old, who are in need of care and who are dependent on a child, brother or sister, will pay a higher supplement in respect of the person to whom he is dependent. Anyone who is under 65 years of age, whether or not he has a disability, will later be entitled to a smaller allowance on the duty-free allowance if he is taken on by a child, brother or sister. That's a tax increase. Anyone who has been for 65 years but is not in need of care will also decline after the transitional period you set up until 2024. So that's also a tax increase. In summary, for one category you do a gesture, but for two categories the benefit goes backwards. The reason why there is a budget of EUR 6.21 million less revenue following that transitional period, combined with the group of caregivers whose facts are established after 65 years. So your tax reduction here effectively hides a tax increase and I can only invite you to look at this again. A third point, and it is not much in the budget, is the non-indexation of certain fiscal expenditure and tax cuts. We discussed this at length earlier. We have indeed gained this under the Michael administration, but the Michael administration has also reduced taxes by the tax shift so that the low and middle incomes would be less taxed. We have also reformed and reduced corporate tax to give oxygen to SMEs and entrepreneurs. What is fundamentally different is that we are now in a very different context. I have just said that billions are being spent in the context of dealing with the corona crisis. Economically, entrepreneurs and the small self-employed are the most affected groups. That was confirmed by the National Bank yesterday. At a time like this, it is decided not to index a number of tax expenditures and tax reductions, many of which are used by the same self-employed and entrepreneurs. Why? For a budgetary impact of twice nothing, EUR 17 million in 2021, rising to EUR 68 million in 2024. I did not understand at all why such a negative signal is given to the people who work and save, until I heard Mr Laaouej's explanation in the Finance Committee. I have had to reread that explanation in the report. Mr Laaouej says that a lot of tax expenditure, for example in the context of long-term savings or the construction of an energy-efficient home, is made by the higher to the highest income classes. He also stated that the measure in question would strengthen the progressive nature of the tax system by increasing redistribution capacity. So, according to my PS colleague, mostly people with higher and highest incomes are in pension savings and long-term savings. I said earlier that 2 million taxpayers are saving pensions, but I was wrong in that figure, because the number is more like 2.5 million taxpayers. So these are the high incomes that the PS is targeting. Even the shoulders of the middle class are apparently strong enough for certain parties within your government, Minister. I would also like to mention a tax that increases, but which we should not call a tax increase. More specifically, it is an increase in a tax that you do not introduce, but which increases under unchanged policies, while this government deliberately chooses not to do anything. It is about the tax system of commercial vehicles. We have discussed this for a long time in the framework of a proposal on the CO2 coefficient. Without too technical a discussion now, the new way in which CO2 emissions from a vehicle are measured means that from next year onwards, the advantage will increase all types on average in the absence of any policy changes. You can shrug your shoulders and say that it is the case. A different attitude is possible, however, for example, as the Flemish Government has done. The Flemish Government has chosen to neutralize this tax increase. The Federal Government was not prepared to do so, although I specifically asked for it in the Finance Committee. As a result, the tax on employees who have a salary car available to their employer and who are allowed to use it for personal purposes will increase from 2021 onwards. These are hundreds of thousands of people who will see their personal income tax increase by several hundred euros a year from 2021. I'm not talking about expensive board cars here. This is about the regular, popular models, the modal cars that are also used in home care. It's not just about executives here. That is why we think it is a missed opportunity for the federal government, unlike the Flemish Government, not to have done anything about this, to have neutralized this tax increase pending the greater reform it proposes. The only tax increase which this government itself dares to call, as I have heard this afternoon, is the increase in excise duties and VAT on tobacco. Ironically, that is precisely the tax increase that will not achieve its return in the long term. In 2021, the proceeds of 120 million may still be achieved as a reference year 2020. In 2020, border purchases completely disappeared for eight weeks. From 2022 it will be impossible to achieve that return. If I get this straight, I will come to a number of conclusions. Firstly, for many people, the tax burden will increase in 2021. It does not matter whether it is a new tax, a tax increase, a tax that rises like a phoenix from its ashes or otherwise resurrects. For the citizen, there's only one thing that counts, and that's what he feels in his wallet. Secondly, not only the strongest shoulders will feel this. The middle class is also affected. Thirdly, the third key is no longer respected and we are only two months away. We are already at more than 50% of the budgetary effort through taxation. I do not understand that taxes are being increased at a time when everyone is already being hit so hard during this crisis. I don't understand why they couldn't have waited a year. I think it's a very wrong signal. The second part is the fight against fraud. For this, the government's budgetary objectives are even more ambitious. By 2024 at cruising speed, it must yield EUR 1 billion a year. Over the entire period of government, this amounts to EUR 2.5 billion. If there were also a variable fiscal effort, which is the ambition of the current government from 2022 onwards, some of it will also have to be achieved through the fight against fraud. Concrete plans to achieve that are not yet in place. The government wants to coordinate more, but otherwise there is not much concrete yet. The only thing I have found is that you are obviously looking very hard at the lifting of banking secrecy by passing the bank balances to the CAP to achieve that objective. We can have long discussions about banking secrecy, but that has been very crumbling in recent years. The tax authority already has access to the taxable person's bank details. That access is already very spacious. It is also used effectively very much. In 2019, the tax authorities questioned the CAP more than three thousand times in the context of a tax audit. So that's happening pretty much already. Any further step in the field of privacy must always ask whether a measure is proportionate and ensure that the guarantees of citizens' privacy have been adequately respected. That sounds very topical. Over the last few weeks, we have often talked about proportionality and the privacy of citizens in the context of another debate and another debate. About releasing drones on private gardens and private property, the government has finally seen the light. There was the College of Attorney General to help her do that. Then she saw the light. At that time it was also admitted that proportionality is an extremely important test to determine to what extent the individual rights of citizens may be affected. Now, we don't have a College of Attorney General here. If I read the coalition agreement correctly, I see a three-stage missile there. First element, the CAP is fed with all bank balances of all Belgians. Second element, we release data mining on all data, without there having to be any indication of fraud. I read it here, it says in the government agreement: 'For the purposes of further examination of files, for which one or more indications of tax evasion are by the tax authorities in the context of data mining, the CAP may be questioned'. So on the basis of data mining, we are going to come up with clues, which are much lighter than suspicions, of tax evasion. Third element in the three-stage missile, there is an excessively ambitious fraud target. If I take these three things together, I am very afraid that we have fully opened the way to an asset register and to a control of the assets of all Belgians. For us, therefore, there are insufficient safeguards in the relevant provisions in order to avoid this misuse of balances on the accounts of taxpayers. For us, these provisions should therefore be deleted from the Programme Act. That is why we are again tabling this amendment in plenary. Not all Belgians violate the corona rules, not all Belgians are fraudsters, so don't treat them like that. I would like to conclude with a general remark, Minister, for the whole government: do not abuse corona. Transient events rarely justify the introduction of permanent measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u4	Madam President, Minister, I have already mentioned in my introduction, earlier this day, the five new taxes on the board of this government. I also mentioned the double breach of words, the claim that no new taxes would be introduced except in the context of budgetary control. That promise was broken. The second promise that was broken was the claim that there would be a fair contribution with respect for entrepreneurship, but the resurrected securities tax is now, especially in the resurrected version, also affecting companies and self-employed people. So there is a double word breach, after less than three months under this new government. I would like to go into the new taxes, starting with the securities tax. The purple-green government is talking about fair taxation, but it does not end up getting any further than messing around in the fiscal margin. The new securities tax is not actually a resurrected version, but a refurbished version of the previous securities tax. Typical Belgian plumbing. A number of parties are trying to sell that security tax as a temporary measure, a solidarity contribution actually, but nothing is less true of course. The first serious legislative work of purple-green teaches us a few things. Firstly, corona is being abused as a pretext for pushing through a tax increase. Secondly, corona is being abused to sell a structural new tax as a temporary crisis measure. A downright misleading sales pitch. Thirdly, we are talking about an uncircumcised capital tax, a clear left-wing demand, which not only targets citizens but also entrepreneurship and other governments in this country. What is sold as a rich tax does not affect the most rich, but, as always, affects the middle class. The great scope of this tax is therefore a direct attack on entrepreneurship. Fourthly, investment is discouraged for yet another time in times of historically low interest rates. Fifth, the purple-green parties are organising a new transfer from Flanders to Wallonia with this securities tax. It is clear that the left and Wallonia are allowed to decide in this country, but that Flanders will eventually have to pay the bill. The securities tax will have to pay around EUR 400 million for the state treasury next year. Mr. Secretary, that's a long shot. On 17 November, I said in committee that the original securities tax was destroyed last year by the Constitutional Court and that the new securities tax would be much faster than expected. The rush to push through this tax at all costs after a few weeks already creates little confidence in us. It merely creates the expectation that this tax will become a monstrosity again and the question is whether the repair of the securities tax will pass the legal test or eventually become a budgetary failure. The past has shown enough evidence that haste and haste in the messing with our tax legislation are rarely good. Speed is only appropriate if it is also effective and legal. In the meantime, it appears that the Council of State is requesting amendments to the draft text. The many questions raised by Flemish Interest in the discussion of the policy statement in the committee are now confirmed by the Council of State. The Council of State could only conclude that the design of the purple-green government is clearly not well thought out and motivated. That is why today we are tabling an amendment to the budget of resources in order to remove that security tax. It does not comply with the principle of caution to include this income already, because of the highly uncertain collection. Just about every tax expert expects that these securities tax will once again give rise to legal disputes so that its receipt is uncertain. Budgetaryly, the inclusion of securities tax in this budget has no basis whatsoever. As soon as legal certainty is created, the estimated revenue can be added to the next budgetary control. Until then, however, it is a pure guess, wishful thinking or wishful thinking. In times of crisis, it is necessary to work with correct figures, realistic budgets and not with budgetary fantasies. The programme law also provides for an increase in excise duties on tobacco, a flat pest tax. I would like to say the following about the programme law. I have also asked this question to your party colleague Matheï. I was told about that programme law that I had to look at the overall package, that I had to look at all the measures together. We then asked the opposition to give us the pass on of that programme law so that we know with good reason what we are approving here in Parliament. It was Mr Leysen who, in an unsuspecting period when there was no government, proposed that more systematic proposals should be passed on to the Committee on Finance and the Budget. Subject to my mistake, and that is the clear question to you, we have still not received the pass-through of this programme law. Where's the math? On the subject of the increase in excise duty, which therefore comes under the programme law, I said: trop d'impôt tue l'impôt. Freely translated: too high taxes are detrimental to tax revenues. At the end of 2015, the federal government significantly increased excise duties on alcohol. Prices for alcoholic beverages went up by at least one third. This measure ultimately had a double objective, on the one hand to slow down alcohol consumption in this country, and on the other hand to generate at least EUR 200 million of additional revenue annually for the government. Five years later, we find that this increase in excise duty has completely missed its goal in both areas. Flemings and Waalen are buying more and more alcohol abroad. Excise revenue from alcoholic beverages continues to decrease. This is also apparent from the figures of the FPS Finance. We believe that a similar scenario will apply to the increase in excise duties on tobacco. We fear that these increases will not yield the expected EUR 120 million in the budget. Flemings and Walen buy their alcohol across the border, but the other way around many French people buy their tobacco in our country. Much of the revenue from excise duties comes from sales at borders. In 2019, sales in Belgium to foreign smokers accounted for a turnover of about 750 million euros. Substantial increases in excise duties will again affect these border sales to a significant extent. This has already been proven by previous smaller increases in excise duties. We must not lose sight of employment in this sector either. To make a long story short: the increase in excise duties on tobacco is not only a pestilence tax, it is also a measure whose tax revenue is not at all certain and can even be negative. I know that Mr Piedboeuf is also a very cool lover, not to say an opponent, of such an increase in excise duty. Moreover, this measure is a threat to employment in the sector and in one of the biggest economic crises in post-war history. It is therefore not justified to make that decision now. Ladies and gentlemen, last month Europe forced Belgium to tax rent income differently. The Belgian tax on foreign real estate has been a thorn in the eye of Europe for years. The European Court of Justice condemned the discrimination between foreign and domestic rental income as early as April 2018, so for Marrakech. Because the Swedish Government, including the N-VA and subsequently the Wilmès Government, did not solve the dossier, because the previous governments did nothing, the European Commission started a second procedure in July last year. The European Court of Justice ruled that this valuation is contrary to the free movement of capital. The judgment found that Belgium did not comply with the first judgment. Moreover, Belgium is no longer able to appeal. So the hot potato was moved from one government to another. The majority parties could and should have known that this difficult dossier had to be resolved. The European Court of Justice sentenced Belgium to a fine of EUR 2 million and every day that there is no solution to an additional penalty payment of EUR 7,500. This is the result of the Belgian non-policy. In the meantime, it is clear that you, the majority parties, did not get out at the negotiating table either. During the negotiations, too, the hot potato was simply pushed forward and it ended up on your plate, Minister, as a kind of welcome gift, but one that can count. In the meantime, you worked out a solution that only relates to foreign rental income. Now listen carefully to what the Minister said about this in the Finance Committee: "My administration is working out a solution to the difference in the treatment for which Belgium has been condemned by the European Court. Consequently, this solution will only cover immovable property located abroad. The real estate located in Belgium will not be affected. Although this is not a pre-down on the broader fiscal reform, it is rather a quick solution to the situation in which we find ourselves." So there is no impact on domestic rental revenues and that is, for the record, a good thing, but the catch is of course in the second part of the answer. You say that it is not a preliminaries to the broader fiscal reform. Thus, for domestic rental income, there is no short-term impact, but in the medium and long-term, the Minister of Finance does not exclude a tax on rental income. A warned homeowner in our country is worth two. In Knack, colleague Joris Vandenbroucke of sp.a said that a tax on rental income is an option. When the fox preaches the passion, peasant, watch your geese. I would also like to talk about the carbon tax, the SUV tax, the city toll, Minister. The taxpayer had only just had to swallow the securities tax and the increase in excise duties, or there was already a new tax coming. Minister Khattabi wrote in her policy paper that she will make proposals for a carbon tarification. The carbon tax of purple-green was born, a new tax on the middle class, especially in Flanders. Once again, those who work, save and undertake are endorsed. The Deputy Prime Minister of Ecolo, Mr Gilkinet, confirmed in November that he was in favour of an SUV fee. France imposes a tax on the weight of cars and Gilkinet also thinks that 'I quote him 'the logic itself'. Those who read the Finance Policy Letter have, of course, done so with great care and note that such a carbon tax and an SUV tax are indeed an important option in your broad fiscal reform. Our car is already the milk cow of the state treasury today, and that will only get worse under this government. Yesterday we read in the newspaper De Tijd that commercial cars will be heavily taxed next year. The carbon tax, the SUV tax and the heavier tax on commercial vehicles come on top of the city toll that commuters in Brussels are already waiting for. In recent years, the Brussels authorities have done their utmost to affect the economic fabric of the Brussels region: the removal of parking spaces, the introduction of an unthought-out pedestrian zone and an anti-social low-emission zone and now, as a kind of cherry on the cake, a Brussels city toll. Brussels passes through the cash register five times: through the shuttle dotation, amounting to EUR 44 million, the EUR 155 million mobility donation, the EUR 125 million Beliris dotation and the EUR 1.7 billion transfers from Flanders to Brussels, all together around EUR 2 billion. And now a Brussels city toll of about EUR 0.5 billion is added. This Brussels city toll is compensated for Brussels citizens by the abolition of traffic tax, but that does not apply to the Flemish and Walloon commuters. In this way, the commuters pay twice a bill, on the one hand through the budget and the billions of transfers, on the other hand through a city toll. We're gonna fit for that city vat, because who's gonna pay for it? You know it, Minister. Those will be the hardworking Flemings, that day in, day out for their work in Brussels. The Flemings who are in traffic every morning will be able to pay the Brussels bills. Our car is already the milk cow of the state treasury today and a Brussels city toll comes on top as a thank you to the many Flemish commuters for their services. The fact that the Brussels government parties agreed so quickly is quite remarkable, because Open Vld and sp.a showed their displeasure in the Flemish Parliament. They protested against the city toll. In Brussels, they approved the rule without a hitch. Political schizophrenia is what we call it. However, the Flemish interest will challenge the issue at the highest level and has in the meantime invoked the conflict of interest. Through the city toll, Brussels will transfer the invoice of its blood red budget to Flanders and also to Wallonia. Then the shuttle dot, the mobility dot and the Beliris dot must be reviewed. Tolmurs will tear apart Brussels companies with employees from the three regions. They increase the costs for Brussels employers and make jobs in the capital less attractive. This is how companies are pushed away from Brussels. Flemish and Walloon business locations are therefore becoming more fiscally interesting. The city toll will also deter talent from other regions from taking another job in Brussels. The economic invoice of that antisocial measure may be heavier than the revenue for Brussels. The London city toll also proves, by comparison, that the mobility effect of such a measure is only temporary. Meanwhile, the traffic jams just came back and the flow rate has dropped further. While one of the biggest financial crises in post-war history is currently taking place, it is totally irresponsible to punish the road user with an additional flat tax. At the same time, we have to note that any discussion on the toll between the Brussels, the federal, the Flemish and the Walloon governments is stalled. This illustrates how this country has been completely reformed and no longer functioning. The problem of congestion must be tackled urgently, but the institutional impasse in this country must also be tackled. Not only the mobility freeze, but also the Community standstill is taking an ever greater toll. The Community's standstill must now finally be broken. We are therefore tabling an amendment to delete the Belirisdotation and mobility dose from the budget. If that city toll is to come, we must also put financial pressure on Brussels. Minister, you are striving for what is called a broad fiscal reform. For the liberals in the government, it is enough for you to carry out a study by 2024. Deputy Prime Minister Van Quickenborne said in De Standaard: "There will be no new capital tax, no capital gain tax, no added value tax, unlike the plans of the N-VA. Rent revenue remains untaxed. There's not gonna be a power caster, and we're not gonna touch commercial cars. The inheritances of the Michel government also remain intact." He wisely forgot to mention that in the meantime the liberals have had to swallow all the securities tax, a capital tax, and a strong increase in excise duty, and that the company cars will be affected, as they will be taxed more heavily from next year on. That's how we know Van Quickenborne. Prime Minister De Croo stated in De Tijd that there is now mainly a need for fiscal rest, but that peace has meanwhile turned into a red-green tax offer. Socialists and CD&V have deleted a passage of the broad fiscal reform by 2024, which had to be on paper during the last night of negotiations. The socialist union, the alternative spokesperson of this left-wing and anti-Flemish government, let's just say that, in the meantime, the pressure on this government increased. The ABVV top man said: "The Vivaldic coalition has no choice but to increase the resources of the state and social security." To this end, the ABVV top man put forward three ideas: either new taxes, or a reform of the current tax system to tax movable and immovable income, or a tax on financial transactions. So the left puts a lot of pressure on you, Minister. The key question for the coming years on Finance is therefore whether you will put a comprehensive tax reform on paper with CD&V or whether you will actually implement it by 2024. In other words, is this comprehensive tax reform a task for the current government or for the next? Despite the many hours of debate in committee, we have not received any answers to these crucial questions. Perhaps you could clarify this for once? In the personal tax we see today that those who work, save, undertake and raise children pay blue. Anyone who knows the tax trickbox and can employ expensive bookkeepers escapes from it. In this way we are beginning to see a new class of working poor: single parents, seniors and small self-employed people. The high taxes on labour income discourage people from seeking a job or working more and are one of the causes of the low level of employment in this country. They make labour expensive, slow down job creation by companies and weigh on their competitiveness. In corporate taxation, we see that many self-employed and SMEs suffer from a suffocating tax burden that weighs more heavily than in our neighbouring countries. Nevertheless, many larger companies often manage to pay hardly any taxes via escape routes to tax havens and through some kind of aggressive tax planning. I see Mr Van Hees jumping straight suddenly when I talk about tax havens. However, this is also a message to Mr Van Hees that companies in this country are relatively more subsidised than abroad. The coming economic recovery offers us a unique opportunity to thoroughly reform our taxes. Taxation for our people and our companies must therefore be thoroughly reformed. We therefore also believe that there should be reform. Tax rates need to be simplified and aligned with our neighbouring countries. All kinds of tax deductions, tax reductions and exemption rules should eventually disappear. The more people and businesses escape taxes, the more the economic and social recovery will slip away after the crisis. In any case, in this respect, we fundamentally disagree with the purple-green parties, and we must reduce the overall tax burden by lower and lower tax rates for us. Taxes can indeed be reduced, provided a number of conditions are met. A smart tax reduction means an oxygen cure for our economy. Lowering taxes is, for us, a social revival or recovery measure which, by strengthening the purchasing power of the hard-working employers and workers in this country, stimulates economic growth. In this way, less taxes can ultimately lead to more revenue for the state treasury. Colleagues, the amounts used to calculate our personal income tax are adjusted each year to reflect inflation and thus indexed. This applies to exemptions, tax brackets and a lot of tax reductions. The De Croo government wants to break that basic principle of indexation in the programme law and make an index jump. The government wants to freeze a number of reductions and exemptions for four years. The indexation stop applies for the period 2020 to 2023 and thus already affects the amounts of 2020. Let me be clear, Minister, that can be done legally, but de facto it is retroactive, yet by 2020, and that is obviously not a sign of fiscal justice. On the website of the Federal Public Service Finance, we read: "This is a saving to ensure that we can finance other expenses, including additional corona expenses in health care." That's how you read it. But that's fake news, of course. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, when you discussed your policy letter, you replied that this additional revenue would simply be added to the general budget. That money simply comes with the general resources and disappears into the bottomless Belgian wells. Corona is once again being abused as a pretext for an indirect tax increase. Because that's what it is in the end: a tax increase. Non-indexation is a sneaky and slanty increase in taxes. Colleagues, the Belgian State is gradually emerging under purple-green into a superstate in which the government monitors and controls almost every aspect of human life. The government decides how to celebrate Christmas. The government sends drones to control the population. The government has permission to review the balance of our bank accounts. 2020 seems to be the new 1984. The new government not only wants to look into our homes with drones, but also now spy on our private accounts. The new government wants all customer accounts to be delivered by the banks to the Central Contact Point (CAP). Whoever wants to look at our bank account cannot, of course, rule out the possibility that the balance will ever be taxed. But of course the purple-green parties don't tell us about that. Or rather, the latter do not of course tell the purple-green parties yet. The viewing of a bank account is a first step towards a cash register. I can be very clear on this: as a Flemish national freedom party, Flemish Interest will oppose such a property landladist. For Flemish Interest, banking secrecy must remain in this country. We do not want the Belgian State to check our bank accounts. Moreover, we are not alone in our criticism. The Data Protection Authority (GBA) also rejects the government's plans to access our bank accounts and thus to remove banking secrecy. According to the GBA, the draft does not demonstrate sufficiently how the mandatory communication is necessary, for example, the privacy watchdog proposes in a special strong advice for your government, which may be stressed. Citizens can and will rightly use this opinion to complain about this breach of banking secrecy. I would just like to read out the opinion: "Although the Data Protection Authority strongly questions the existence of any link to the current health crisis, it would also point out that events of a transitory nature can only rarely justify the introduction of permanent measures." The GBA therefore also points out that for the umpteenth time the corona crisis is being used in a scandalous way to push a measure through. Mr Minister, my conclusion is very brief. As far as finances are concerned, we must apply what I call the De Croo doctrine during the crisis: fiscal calm in these economic turbulent times. No five new taxes proposed in two or three months, but tax rest. That is what our people and businesses need now, a clear fiscal framework. After this crisis, in relance, we must move towards a general reduction in the tax burden in this overburdened country, as a kind of social relief measure. That is our appeal to you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u5	Madam President, in the area of taxation, there is one issue that can be addressed through the social security axis, namely pensions. Indeed, during the debate on the minimum pension at EUR 1,500 gross or net, the difference between the gross or net amount precisely showed that it was a point of crystallisation of the debate. So this leads us to wonder about the high taxation of very low pensions in our country. I mean that from a very low pension amount, a tax is already applied, since in our country, from a gross pension of 1,260 euros, a pensioner is already beginning to pay taxes. We think we're dreaming! It is incomprehensible that we already have to pay taxes on such low amounts! And when one reaches 1,580 euros gross, which is the government's objective, there is a tax of 130 euros per month; 130 euros per month on a pension that is minimal. That's pretty impressive. To this is added the fact that in 2020 there was another operation, one remaining, one trail of the tax shift, voted in 2015, but this year again has a negative impact on pensions, since the additional tax to be paid is 400 euros per year. This is a legacy of the tax shift! I think that this government, with its left-wing components, would have called into question such a measure, based, I would remind you, on the idea that pensioners should be discriminated against negatively, because in the philosophy of Swedish, they are not active people. However, the tax shift was intended to benefit the active population and to ensure that these non-active pensioners did not benefit from the decline in the rates of the PPI, this measure took place: this additional 400 euros to be paid through a decrease in the amount of the reduction in the tax on pensions and replacement income. This logic of discrimination is quite aberrant. I thought that Vivaldi could come back to it, especially when there is this whole debate on the pension at 1,500 gross or net. It was really an opportunity to break that discrimination. That's not the case. What I am defending is the fact that, as part of the great tax reform announced by the government, the taxation of such low pensions must be the subject of debate. It would be incredible to leave taxable income so low. When we analyse, within this budget, all the tax revenues collected by the federal government of a considerable amount amounting to EUR 119 billion, which represents an impressive budgetary mass, we realize that it is the population that bears the bulk of this tax, i.e. the workers, whether they are employed or self-employed. Large companies are contributing little to this distribution of taxes. It is not the tax on securities accounts that will fundamentally change things since it is barely equivalent to 0.36% of this mass of tax revenues. You understand that when you add in such a large amount of $119 billion, 0.3%, it doesn't make a big difference who pays the taxes and who doesn't pay them. Finally, the population pays 86% and companies, mainly through corporate tax (ISOC), pay the remainder. If we look at the new tax revenues, as we said earlier, and Mr. Piedboeuf agreed, there are no new taxes, but we have increased the old taxes, which is obviously the same for the people's portfolio. In the new tax revenues, the biggest piece, these are unfair taxes on consumption. Thomas Piketty, famous French economist, defends in particular the tax on wealth but has a general view on taxation and in particular on the concept of progressivity in taxation, which is an essential concept in tax justice. Progressivity means that the higher the income, the higher the tax rate. This principle of progressivity does not apply to taxes on consumption, on indirect taxes, which makes Thomas Piketty say that they are taxes of the 19th century and not of the 21st century. Indeed, everyone pays the same VAT rate. There is not this notion of progressivity, but the lowest incomes even pay proportionally more of these taxes because their income is so low that they do not come to the fore. They consume all their income and would consume even more than their total income if they could and, therefore, they do not save. All their income is therefore subject to consumption taxes. Indeed, for €270 million by 2024, the transposition of the e-commerce directive looks beautiful. We think we're going to tax e-commerce. But in fact, it is still people who are going to pay VAT. It is therefore a tax on consumption, therefore an unfair tax. We also have these famous excise duties on tobacco, which are also indirect taxes. They are here taken with the alibi of public health policy. But we know that the goal is not public health. The objective is budgetary. This raises the question of how to pursue both a budgetary and a public health objective. Indeed, from the moment this policy had a real impact on health policy and managed to reduce significantly the number of smokers, what would go away in smoke would be the budgetary return, of course! Therefore, this tax carries in it its own contradiction. The fact that cigars would not be subject to the increase of this tax is the cherry on the cake, to really give the class symbolic content of the measure. The little pensioner who has his tobacco to roll will pay more taxes, and the big boss who smokes his cigars will not pay. Then comes the whole debate that took place when dealing with one of the previous topics with Minister Khattabi on the carbon tax. Indeed, it is not in the government's budget. Nevertheless, it is on the horizon. It is true that, in Mrs Khattabi's political orientation statement, it is still stated: "Important preparatory steps to introduce a carbon price have already been carried out in the previous legislature. I will take the initiative within the government to make concrete proposals to introduce such pricing without delay." Ms. Khattabi said that she had never said that she would introduce a carbon tax. However, this is clear from its text.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u6	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u7	Mr Laaouej tells me that Mrs Khattabi is not here, but there is still a question of taxation here. I will expand on the issue of environmental taxation. I think we are making a serious mistake – and the past has demonstrated this with the old eco-taxes – by penalizing the population with environmental taxes that are antisocial. This leads us to a double failure in terms of the social nature of the measure because it is antisocial taxes such as excise duties and VAT. Moreover, the carbon tax as applied in France aroused the anger of a large part of the population, an anger that was reflected in the movement of yellow vests, and was simply excises that were added to others. This was indeed the nature of the carbon tax, since it is the most practical way to impose it. Socially, it is already an unfair tax, but we also miss the environmental objective. Indeed, it is not by means of taxes that we are able to change things, if we do not offer other solutions to the population. It is the same problem with the Brussels kilometric tax, which is not a federal matter and therefore not part of the present framework, but which follows the same logic, since this measure involves penalizing people in the name of the environment, but without offering them any other possibility. Moreover, Mr Laaouej indicated in the press that he would not vote for an anti-social tax. I don't think we're going to say anything here, Mr. Laaouej. I don't know where you're going to vote, but I assume you're speaking as President of the Brussels PS. In any case, there are differences. I'll meet you, Mr. Laaouej. When you say things that I support, I like to emphasize it! In short, this is the kind of antisocial measure. I couldn't say better, Mr. Laaouej. The same applies to the carbon tax and all the others who would go in that direction. Secondly, the non-indexing of tax expenditure seems curious to me. Earlier, Mr. Piedboeuf told us that no new tax would be lifted, but that we would increase it. Then, when we talk to him about an increase in taxes, he replies: "Yes, but without an increase in the PPI." What is this, Mr. Piedboeuf? When we talk about non-indexation of tax expenditures, it's about PPI, isn't it? When you don't index them, what happens? We then pay more personal tax, which means more PPI. Therefore, Mr. Piedboeuf, you will agree that this is indeed an increase in the PPI. I see you're laughing, so I think that means you're acquiescing. This is your way of acquiescence; I know you well! This is therefore an increase in personal tax (IPP). Mr Laaouej tells us in committee that we should see what deciles these tax expenditures would be. According to him, these expenses could affect the highest deciles, so that we will increase the tax on citizens who earn the highest incomes. This is very interesting as a reflection, and I think this is the kind of thinking that needs to be done when changing taxation. Unfortunately, this reflection has remained at the reflection stage. In tax expenditures that are not indexed, we find everything. Many tax expenditures have been taken to exclude only some. By your questioning, Mr. Laaouej, you show that the government did not do this work and did not check who would be affected by these non-indexations of tax expenditures. In my opinion, this is a job that needs to be done. I recall that during the tax shift, I had to harass Finance Minister Van Overtveld for months to know the impact of the tax shift per decile, and I only got the impact for the IPP part of the tax shift, not for the consumer tax part. To sum up, these are tax increases, and I think that we can discuss them again, and even that we need to re-discuss tax expenditure as part of a comprehensive tax reform. However, as part of a comprehensive tax reform, tax expenditures are called into question in a general discussion, in which tax expenditures are reduced as well as the tax rate, so that one offsets the other. In this case, taxes were simply increased without any downward effect. No global reflection has been carried out. It was simply a matter of looking for additional budgetary revenue. It's damaging. Capital, on the other hand, sees no tax increase but tax reductions. The tax niches of corporate tax reform are not called into question, some of which have even been increased by the same reform. The government continues to increase professional discount exemptions. I do not go back to the fact that this is a theft of workers' tax by the boss who is supposed to pay it to the tax but who keeps a large part for him. This is quite shocking, especially since the amount is still increasing. There are still new forms of exemption here. Article 275/1 was the first exemption. We've now moved to 275/10 or 275/11. I don't know exactly anymore. The number of articles 275/x in the Income Tax Code is experiencing a really incredible inflation but inflation is also budgetary because today there are 3.98 billion euros in professional discount exemptions. Imagine the loss that this represents to the state in terms of budgetary revenues! It is difficult not to talk about what was the largest but no longer the tax on the shoulders, since the Council of State said that it was not possible to remove from the explanatory memorandum anything that referred to the tax in one way or another under these terms. Earlier, Mr Piedboeuf used a very good term: the "resurrection" of the Michel government's account-title tax. We will remember that it was a N-VA minister who created this tax that is now criticized by the entire extreme right-wing and extreme right-wing nationalist bloc. We hear these nationalists say that this tax on securities accounts is a requirement of the Walloon left. But, at the same time, they recognize that it is a copy-paste of what existed under the Swedish that counted the N-VA but no left-wing party. I try to understand the logic of the extreme right and extreme right nationalist bloc, which consists of saying that, on the one hand, it is a requirement of the Walloon left, but on the other, it is a simple copy-paste of what was laid down by a government where the Walloon left was not present. Now I don't understand the logic. It would be really interesting to explain it. I see that, on the contrary, as a continuity of what was done under Swedish. It's not a wealth tax at all. Bank secrecy is not removed. A cadastre of fortunes is not created. And above all, great fortunes are not affected. This, of course, is the big problem with this tax. All the criticisms of the Council of State on the tax come from the fact that we made a gas factory, finally, of this tax, to circumvent the fact that we do not want to tax the nominal shares, because the nominal shares belong to the great fortunes. The big fortunes don't have securities accounts. They have nominative shares. They will therefore not be taxed. It also avoids making a cadastre of fortunes. This avoids removing bank secrecy. This tax is purely symbolic. As I said, this represents 0.36% of the total tax revenue collected by the federal government. As a comparison, take the PTB millionaire tax and apply it to a very small sample, only to the billionaire families of this country. Not the millionaires, but the billionaires. According to the calculations of journalist Ludwig Verduyn, there was a billionaire family 20 years ago. Today, there are 30 of them. We are already seeing an increase in the number of billionaires. Take the combined formulas of these thirty billionaires, apply there a tax on the fortune, the tax on the millionaires of the PTB. This would bring in 2.5 billion euros, out of these thirty families alone. Compared to the 428 million of the security account tax, we see the difference directly. If we apply the security account tax to these thirty billionaires, how much do we have? We have zero euros, since billionaires do not pay the tax on securities accounts. This is a rather illuminating comparison of the nature of this tax. It's a placebo tax, finally. That's how it was conceived under the Michel government. That is why the right-wing parties of the Vivaldi accepted it, necessarily. How could they have refused what they had accepted in a right-wing coalition, well to the right? That the left-wing parties do not rise to the demand beyond what the Swedish had accepted is still quite extraordinary. With regard to tax evasion, it is quite impressive to see how much revenue this government spends on the fight against tax fraud, but it is not new. I've been digging a little bit. I noticed that in 1995, the then Prime Minister Jean-Luc Dehaene explained that, in order to achieve budgetary objectives, the fight against all forms of misuse of fraud and abuse would be intensified. At the time, there were 34,000 officers in the Department of Finance. In 1999, Guy Verhofstadt was Prime Minister and announced in the government statement that the government would fight white-collar crime. At that time, the FPS Finance had only 32,000 officers. In 2008, Yves Leterme was Prime Minister. He decided to launch a ministerial committee to combat tax and social fraud, and he would also fight white-collar crime. However, the FPS Finance staff continues to be reduced. There's only 31,000 agents left. In 2011, it was Elio Di Rupo who was Prime Minister and in the government statement, it was stated that "the government will fight more strongly against all frauds". At that time, the FPS Finance has 26,000 officers. In 2014, it is Charles Michel who promises to achieve structural fiscal balance in 2018 and plans to go for 250 million thanks to the fight against fraud. The SPF then has 24,000 agents. Today, they are barely less than 20,000 full-time equivalents, of which only 3,827 are assigned to tax control tasks. What the Minister of Finance, Mr. Van Peteghem? He tells us that the FPS will have to become "as thin as possible". I want to say that it is tax evasion that must become as thin as possible. No, for him, it's the SPF. So it's cutting in the public service, cutting in jobs. Despite this, we are promised an anti-fraud performance that will double what the Michel government had budgeted. The European Commission does not believe in this amount at all because it has based itself on a much lower amount in its calculations. The Court of Auditors says that it does not know how the government has proceeded and that this performance is unverifiable. The finance minister in committee does not really give a convincing explanation, which prompted me to say that he was the "minister of vogelpik". The budget tables had to be completed and it was said: "How many will it be? That will be as much, it will be a billion euros in 2024". We know what Mr. Van Peteghem and his predecessors. It was always the same thing. Cuts are made in the FPS Finance staff and they say: "Yes, but there is computerization, and data mining. With all this, you can be much more efficient with fewer agents." It's the easy alibi, but we never showed it. Is it certain that computerizing such a function saves so much money? Many computerization processes require more staff, and more money, especially when hiring private outside consultants. Data mining is always used to remove agents. Mr. Van Peteghem repeated this argument again. But, minister, data mining does not do any tax control. He selects the files to be checked. The computer that did the data mining doesn't go to the company to look at the accounts. It's flesh and bone controllers who do this. There is therefore no will to fight against tax havens either. There is a list of paradises that is ridiculous even if we add that of the European Union today, and a cell of four people working on tax havens. There is also no desire to target big fortunes, while the OECD has advised several countries to have tax cells focused on big fortunes. There are services that control large companies in the Belgian tax system, so why not big fortunes? It is known, based on Gabriel Zucman's work, that people in the top of the wealthiest, not the richest 1%, but the richest 0.01%, fraud for an amount that is 5,000 times higher than a taxpayer who belongs to the top five deciles, that is to say, the poorest 50% of the population. The amount of fraud is 5,000 times higher among these rich. This would justify having cells that would specifically target these people. Finally, there is the refusal to remove bank secrecy and to organize a cadastre of fortunes. What is quite crazy is that the president of the Anticipated Decisions Service, who is also the department that deals with tax regularizations, says that there are 50 billion black capital on Belgian accounts! Que this Mr. Vanden Berghe? That bank secrecy in Belgium should be abolished. Vanden Berghe was employed in the office of Minister Van Overtveldt. Mr Loones, do you confirm that? Here's someone labeled N-VA. And who is most critical of the idea of removing bank secrecy? The N-VA colleagues. Is this an uncontrolled skid from Mr. Vanden Berghe? How would you explain that? It would be interesting to know. In any event, I note that apart from the PTB, there is unanimity among the parties not to remove bank secrecy and not to organize a cadastre of fortunes. That is why a tax on securities accounts was organised. In conclusion, no cadastre of fortunes for the richest, but for the poorest, no worries! For this is what the minister has decided and this is found in his political guidance note: a cadastre of the fortunes of the poorest. As evidence, he explained to us that the cadastre administration would provide information to feed a database that CPAS could consult to determine whether aid applicants are not owners and whether there are real estate transactions. The poorest among the population, those who are forced to go to the CPAS to ask for help, will be taken back in a cadastre of fortunes. On the other hand, for the richest, the billionaires, no cadastre of fortunes and no tax on them either. It is a policy which, in terms of classes, is really very oriented.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u8	I shall return to the N-VA and give the floor to Mr Loones.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u9	Madam President, I would very much like to refer to my speech this morning at 10 a.m., in which I asked a number of questions about the budget. I have already received the political answers from the Prime Minister, which is quite logical. I assume that the more technical answers from the relevant ministers will follow. Do not get too used to this brief speech, ladies and gentlemen, we will soon be talking about institutional matters, about Europe, and about a number of other issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u10	Now it's up to me for half an hour. Colleagues, Minister, Mr Loones has just mentioned the covid vaccination and antigen tests. We have recently tabled an amendment in the Committee on Budgets of 370 million for the payment of covid vaccines. That amendment was voted down. Madam Minister, you have had a very interesting Twitter conversation with Mr Loones today, but I would like to be clear about how the covid vaccine pennies are entered in the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u11	Mr Loones, there has indeed been a conversation on Twitter, but it doesn't make sense to scare people. I find that even unheard of, because there is already a great deal of uncertainty among people about their jobs and their income. The measures already weigh heavily on the people and then you scare them again. You're creating a panic like there wouldn't be any money for the vaccines. The vaccines will be there, they will be paid, there will be a budget and they will be made available to the public free of charge. For 2020, there is a EUR 4 billion corona commission, of which about 340 million are still available. For 2021, a corona commission of 907 million has been registered. Of this, 500 million was taken as general commission. The remaining 407 million is made up of 50.3 million for triage and removal centres, 59.8 million for nursing, in particular basic and flat-rate adaptation, 294.9 million for the reimbursement of testing and 1.7 million for the rehabilitation of hospitalized covid patients. Thus, the amount of 500 million referred to above has not yet been allocated specifically. It seems logical to me that Mr Vandenbroucke already has ideas about this, but from a budgetary point of view that money has not yet been specifically allocated. In concrete terms, therefore, a first part of the vaccines will already be purchased with the corona commission for 2020, for a total amount of EUR 279 million. It concerns 33,5 million vaccines. This amount took into account all contracts concluded by the European Commission with vaccine producers, namely AstraZeneca, Johnson & Johnson, Sanofi, CureVac and Moderna. In line with the commitments made with the Commission, this is about pre-financing by Member States and this budget will therefore be committed in 2020. At the time when the effective cost of the purchases of the vaccines will be known, the payments will now be made from the 2021 liquidation appropriations. The Communities will bear part of the costs, i.e. 20% or EUR 56 million. Some will therefore be able to be paid with what is already registered in the corona commission. If necessary, the 500 million now foreseen will also be available. As regards the corona commission, which is currently planned, I would like to say that the second wave has not yet been included in the budget for 2021. The second wave has therefore not been taken into account. We assumed that while measures would still be needed in 2021, they would be limited. Since we have won the second wave over us and we do not yet know its effects and how long it will last in 2021, I have said that the corona commission, currently at EUR 907 million, may be raised with initial budgetary control. If extra money is needed for vaccines, this can be registered. Currently, there is already a budget available on the 2020 corona commission and it can be further budgeted for 2021. That's not so weird. It is a corona commission and I think it is quite logical that corona vaccines should be financed through a corona commission. That is actually the answer to your question. You may later ask Minister Vandenbroucke what he intends to do with the corona commission. That has been tested and that is how we are currently budgeting vaccines in the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u12	Madam Secretary of State, I do not wish to comment on the technicality of the vaccines, which I would like to leave to the experts, namely Mrs Kathleen Depoorter. However, I would like to make the political point here. I have repeatedly said in committee and elsewhere that I have great respect for you, because you know your files and always answer us in fact, on the basis of the facts, in committee. Now it appears, I am terribly sorry, that you do not know your files and that you have told falsehoods on the committee. I'll say more. I'll never use this word. You lied. You spoke of matters you obviously knew nothing about. Madam President, I am addressing you very specifically. We are being accused of this, and I have already told the Prime Minister that we have believed ministers on their word. Madam Secretary of State, for weeks we have been questioning you, Mr Vandenbroucke and the prime minister in the committee and in the plenary on the corona budgets. I looked up the passages. I delivered it to you on Twitter, too. The Court of Auditors says literally that "a number of additional expenses, such as the cost of vaccination or the costs of antigen tests, are not taken into account." We have also read that passage from the Court of Auditors and we have immediately asked questions about it, both in the Committee on Health and in the Committee on Budgets and here in plenary. Mr Depooster also did so. There's a whole coverage of those meetings. I would like to point out that these are official documents from Parliament. If you or Mr Vandebroucke had spoken too quickly, there is even a possibility of getting the report adjusted, but that has not happened. There are official reports of what we are doing in Parliament. We're in serious business here. This isn't a playground. This isn't a kindergarten. I refer to the report by the Committee on Health, in which Mr Vandebroucke himself said in his introductory statement: 'However, the commission does not yet cover all the expected costs, because some of them cannot now be estimated, such as antigen tests and multiplex PCR tests'. We are also talking about the covid vaccination budget, which he says will be reviewed in the next budgetary control. So the Health Minister tells us that the money is not in the budget. The Court of Auditors says that the money is not in the budget. I have repeatedly asked you the same question in the Committee on Budgets, up to three times, including when we have tabled amendments. This is also the case in the report: 'An estimate of the cost of vaccinations has indeed not been made, given the uncertainties that still exist, such as which vaccines, timing and quantities.' You continue to say: 'When the analysis is completed, the necessary amounts will be included in the budget.' This cannot be done, Madam President. We repeatedly ask Parliament whether the budget for corona vaccines is included in the budget. We are repeatedly denied that. Now we have to hear that we are stirring up unrest, allowing market uncertainties and putting people into uncertainty, while we are tabling amendments in Parliament to remove that uncertainty! Because you say that there is no budget, because Minister Vandenbroucke says that there is no budget, because the Court of Auditors says that there is no budget, we come up with an amendment to register EUR 370 million, but you simply vote away and now you blame us for creating uncertainties on the market and on the people, as there would be money in the register. There are limits! We are doing serious work in Parliament. We ask questions as opposition, we get answers and we take your word for it. We will continue to do so, we will do our parliamentary work seriously and we will table amendments whenever necessary. However, they are voted down with the necessary show and then we are accused of not doing our job and of creating uncertainty. It is about the corona crisis; there is enough chaos and people do not know where to go or where to stand; they really want security in the crisis. We are trying to give it and we are still getting blamed for it! Mrs De Bleeker, I understand that you are new to Parliament, you had a different job before, but Parliament is working with a certain procedure. That procedure means you're doing your job and we're doing ours. I can only conclude, therefore, that we have been asking questions on the subject for weeks and that the government has been underestimating the importance and sensitivity of our questions for weeks. Suddenly you wake up and think that the N-VA actually has a point, that people might really get nervous about this and that you should find a solution. Then a smart cabintard will explain how you can sell it by claiming that there is some money for it, while you, the Court of Auditors and Minister Vandenbroucke have explicitly said at various times it is stated in the report that the money is not in it. If you had come to me now to say that you were terribly sorry, but that you were mistaken, that you spoke for your turn and had not been fully briefed and apparently there is a way to solve the problem, then I would respect that. However, that is not how you deal with it, Mrs De Bleeker. You are blaming the opposition for taking your word for it. That is not the way a Parliament works. Madam President, in a Parliament, ministers are supposed to be telling the truth, and if they are wrong, they should actually apologize and at least give the right information. In any case, they should not blame us for that. That's just really inappropriate. It pisses me off.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u13	Madam President, I do not know what is happening to Mr Loones. What happened? Something must have happened in the halls of Parliament. I have to admit, this anger, this rush, these excesses are kind of strange. Not only are they strange, but they are not justified. We had a debate in the Finance Committee, in the Budget Committee. We heard the Court of Auditors. She recalled that the budget was a timetable which started very early with the report of the monitoring committee and then, with the first budget cuts before a text was tabled depending on the situation at a given point in time. And when the Court of Auditors replied to a whole series of remarks which already said: "Attention, you did not take this into account". The Court of Auditors has said that we have made an assessment on the basis of a specific situation, but that, of course, in the case of new expenditure, this obviously allows the government to return to Parliament with, possibly, a re-evaluation of the budget forecasts and, why not, an adjustment. For the moment, we are experiencing the health crisis. I remember 2008 and the banking crisis, where the government had to come to Parliament to validate urgent decisions. But I can tell you that there are enough responsible people in the government, if we have to spend money on buying vaccines only to do so, and there will be a majority in this Parliament that is needed to give them the necessary resources. For the rest, because I don't like this kind of excess, - I am telling you frankly - I remember a previous Finance Minister who had difficulty explaining where 700 million euros had passed which had to be returned to the Regions. Unable to provide any answer! I also remember a Minister of Finance coming to explain to us that with the redesign of the administration, he was going to find another 700 million. We've never seen a single euro before. I remember the same finance minister of your party, Mr Loones, saying: "We recovered 2 billion euros from the fight against fraud and finally realized that out of the 2 billion, we would never see half of it. And so I can continue – the list is long – on the issue of tax revenue assessments, to such an extent that the Court of Auditors was asked if it could help the Minister of Finance try to assess tax revenues a little better! You are not well placed, Mr Loones, or your party, to make budgetary lessons. For the rest and it's starting to do well with the N-VA group, the ad hominem and ad personam attacks on the members of the government, that's the last of the arguments. It's the one you use when you don't have anything else. We've already lived with Mrs. Dedonder. I keep my peace as far as I'm concerned. You know what Diderot used to say: "Not every piece of metaphysics is worth an ad hominem argument." That's what Diderot said! You'd better learn from it!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u14	Madam Secretary of State has asked to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u15	I had actually prepared a long speech for today, in which I was going to say, among other things, that I had greatly appreciated the fact that the Court of Auditors and the people in committee had put a lot of work into the budget, had analysed everything well, had made comments and that we had had a very interesting discussion. It said: a serene discussion, and it was. That's always been my intention. Today, on Twitter, I see that you claim that we have EUR zero for vaccines, as if the government could not afford those vaccines, as if the citizen could not get those vaccines and that those vaccines would pass by our noses and go to other countries. That's how it came across on Twitter. That's my interpretation. That's why I thought you scared the people. Returning to the facts, we have indeed said that we did not know at that time how much these vaccines would cost. I have just explained to you that we have provided for a corona commission for next year, of which we already know very clearly that EUR 407 million is going to be spent and that EUR 500 million is not registered. As soon as we know the correct amounts of these vaccines, we can register them in the corona commission. There is no point in pretending that there is no money for these vaccines, saying that we do not take that into account, that we would not have that money. There's no point in that at all. I can confirm once again for the record that the vaccines are being paid, a piece with this year's corona commission and, if necessary, next year's. That is the answer to the question of how it will be paid and whether it has been budgeted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u16	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your explanation, but I still do not have an answer. You have now brought a little clarification. You'll pay some of the vaccines with the 2020 corona commission and you'll still have a little left in 2021. That 500 million euros from the corona commission goes to the Budget Financial Resources as far as I know. In it are the advances to give the hospitals commission, to be able to work in corona times. Of the total of EUR 4 billion, EUR 2 billion is provided for commission, the BFM and thus the functioning of hospitals. So you won't get there with the 500 million euros. That is a first point. Secondly, you're getting a little pissed off and saying the members of N-VA are chasing people a little bit. Madam Secretary of State, I am a member of the Committee on Health and for ten months I have been only following the corona crisis for the sake of patients, because we really want to move forward and control the crisis. You say you'll provide money with the government. Minister Vandenbroucke has admitted that they are not registered, but will be foreseen. You say that the funds of the commission will be used, but that commission also serves the hospitals. As a concerned citizen and as a caregiver, you must allow me not to believe your statements very much. At the beginning of the crisis there would be personal protective equipment, but in reality they were not available, our nurses had none and therefore had to work without personal protective equipment. At the beginning of the crisis there would also be oxygen, but there was no oxygen, and even now it became very difficult. Even at the beginning of the crisis, your party colleague said that 90,000 PCR tests would be available in the autumn, but we never got that number. Allow me to go into more detail on the PCR tests. You indicate that the EUR 500 million will also be paid for the vaccines. I suppose that includes the transport, as well as the shots, that have arrived today. I am pleased that your fellow Minister Vandenbroucke has done so. For months I've questioned his predecessor about that, but come on, it's time now. However, that is also about EUR 600,000. It's getting thick. So you won't be coming. We have tabled a constructive amendment. This also happened in the Flemish Parliament, where it was approved by vote, which increased the commission. If that amendment is adopted here too, we can tell people that we are confident that we will be able to pay for the vaccines and in the meantime we will be able to pay for the EUR 500 million that hospitals are counting on. Why don't you take it? When I say to you in committee that the Netherlands has provided EUR 700 million for the purchase of vaccines and EUR 1 billion for the transport and administration of vaccines. I do not know you very well, but Mr Loones has just said that you know your files very well. You have even given an answer in one of the reports, which clearly shows that this dossier is not really your best. You replied that you provided 295 million euros for PCR tests. But how will you pay for those antigen tests, those 500,000 antigen tests in the first place, which will be five million? Five million antigen tests is 80 million euros. Eighty million euros you are not even talking about, and you have no explanation for that either. And that's the point. And then there may be a lot of criticism and then it may be that of N-VA and then Mr Laaouej can quote a lot of examples from the past, but this is foresight, Madam Secretary of State. If we have learned one thing from the special committee COVID, that is the following. I'm not saying that. Professor Vlieghe said that. The killing factors of the first corona wave were a lack of foresight and severity and a fragmentation of powers. I totally agree with that last one, but I also agree with the first one. In that first wave, the government was not forward-looking, but I must say that you are not and that you do not accept a constructive proposal from the opposition, a proposal with knowledge of the facts, and do not go along with it.You would rather tell the citizens that the money will be there, don't worry. I do not think that is a sign of good governance and I am concerned about that. We shall therefore retable that amendment. You still have time to change your mind and go along with it. We are simply ensuring that the money is there and that people can be reassured.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u17	Madam President, I am seduced by the interventions. It's really inexplicable what you're telling us, Mrs. Depoorter. The minister tells you that if there is a need to commit resources quickly, there are provisions. You have criticized the provisions because, you say, and that is not wrong, they are derogating from the common budgetary law. I just remind you, it is not a justification but a reminder that previous governments have regularly used and used interdepartmental provisions. In times of crisis, we can regret the principle but it is a necessity and it is assumed as such. That has been said to the Court of Auditors too. Second element, I'll give you a scoop. If tomorrow the government considers, having adopted a number of specifications, that it needs urgent means, the PS Group will agree to vote urgently for a budget adjustment proposal giving the government the means to commit the necessary expenditure and to do so quickly. It's a scoop I'm giving you. You are in the process of inflating a blind eye on a false problem to try to accredit the idea that there would be a lack of predictability in the head of government, whereas the budget we are going to vote on is based on a budgetary timetable that depends first on the obligations to submit a number of texts at European level, to the Court of Auditors or even to a number of other institutions, such as ours, and to organise the work accordingly. That is why there may be a gap of a few weeks or even a month or more between a reality that needs to be understood and at the same time the realities of expenditure to be incurred. It's as simple as that. Very sincerely, I have seen many things coming from the opposition, but this, objectively, is not based on any reality. You're inflating a baudrouch. You're free to do that, but it doesn't make any sense. I'm telling you the eyes in the eyes. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u18	Madam President, Mr Laaouej, if we follow your reasoning, we can now stop the debate. If that is the attitude of the majority, we can convene plenary sessions at l'improviste and we will ensure that we can vote. I'm sure we'll do that digitally. So what's the point of playing "democracy" here? If that is the attitude of the majority, then I find that very remarkable. In a democracy, in a rule of law, in a parliament, there is another logic: the logic of a budget that is being treated seriously. This is the subject of analysis by the greatest experts, and this is the subject of debate on the ground in all the committees in this House, including in plenary. We've been at it since 10:00 this morning. One statement is a bit sharper than the other, but everyone does it with conviction and is seriously working on his job. We're trying to do the same. The discussions are held, the questions are repeatedly asked. Reports shall be drawn up with official rapporteurs. Those people put time in there. It's under review. It's under study. The services make pressure tests of that. That's all important. These are things that can also be used in later processes, if we have to go back to Parliament's actions in order to learn the motivation of things. This all has legal value, it's a lawyer who speaks. What we do is serious. I can only repeat, and will do it very briefly: this issue is not new. We have increased this to three and four times in different committees, in plenary and even with an amendment. Amendments have value, ladies and gentlemen. We are not simply tabling amendments because we like them, we are tabling amendments because we think it is necessary. To hear now that the Secretary of State is about to fall off her chair this morning because she sees a tweet passing over zero euros? I have already made that statement in committee three times in front of you. You have heard this remark very well, because you have answered it. That answer can be read in the Chamber's report, an official document from our institution. Then I can only conclude that you then communicated version A and that you are now communicating version B. That's your right. It is your right to bring a different story, and I have no problem with it if you have found some kind of budgetary structure or new truths. It doesn't matter, it's your right to find a solution to a problem. I'm even satisfied that it would be resolved. I have some doubts about it, Mr Depoorter has explained why we still have some doubts about it. It is your right to change stories, but it is not your right to blame anyone else for believing you. That is what I particularly regret, Mr Laaouej. So I will no longer know whether I can take the ministers' word for it. I believe, however, that this is the beginning and end of a democratic debate. I'm just so sorry. If that is the way this majority works, just toss it all over and then blame the others, then I really am asking myself the question what the hell we are doing here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u19	Mr Loones, you cannot at the same time denounce the fact that the Court of Auditors says that there are interdepartmental provisions which are not dedicated and at the same time say that the allocation of these provisions to pay for vaccines is false. You can't say both things at the same time. That's not possible. Yesterday once, and twice today, we hear of lies. Look, I'm sorry, but doing opposition and debating is one thing; accusing others of lying is something else. You cannot say both things at the same time, that it is not normal to have provisions that are not affected and that it is not possible for us to affect the provisions to that. You can't say that. That is what is said.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u20	Mr Piedboeuf, perhaps it is better to speak of ignorance than of lies, because that is what it turns out to be. Mr Piedboeuf, I have one more comment and I will make it brief. You're talking about a "décalage d'un mois." 2,300 covid patients are currently diagnosed per day. "Un mois" means 60,000 patients. So we really should not go lightly on the issue. The amendment is far-sighted, and that is what our patients need.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u21	More reactions? The next speaker is the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to bring some peace to this House, I would like to say that I am always very happy to have this kind of debate. When it comes to finance, they are always the same debates, whether they are on the De Pinte City Council or in Parliament in Brussels. That doesn't matter much, because the opposition always works in the same way. I have been in the opposition for six years myself in De Pinte and I will give you a brief summary of that strategy: it is never good. That is the opposition's position when it comes to finance. This always involves a piece of theater. By the way, I see Mr. Loones is gone by now. Even if the indignation is justified, it must be brought in a certain way. In De Pinte I did it the same way all the time, if there was a shortage, then we fulminated. If there were proposals to generate extra revenue, we would also be fulminated. If there was anything good, we wouldn't talk. I see the same strategy here in Parliament today. I can add one more thing when it comes to extra income, I always used the phrase: "You are charging taxes on everyone who builds, grows and dies." In fact, if building permits were issued there would be an additional cost and the price of the concessions at the cemetery would be doubled. So we had certain phrases for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u23	Are you announcing new taxes?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u24	Not at all. I'm just explaining the opposition's strategy. When one is in opposition, there does not appear to be much difference between the strategy in the city council and that in Parliament. I noticed that again here today because everyone started to fulminate about the deficit. When we talked about extra income, everyone started to fill in again. Here sentences were used as: "You tackle the people who work, save and undertake." However, when it came to the positive things, I did not hear the opposition. So everything happened here today in the same way. I don't blame you, because that's your right. We have already discussed the financial and budget issues in detail in committee, a discussion which we have been able to have in a very good understanding and openness. However, I would like to talk today about the sentences and statements you are using. We do not, of course, take decisions on the budget. We're looking for a balance. Today we are in a particularly precarious health situation in this corona crisis. The opposition says that we are addressing the people who work, undertake and save. People will feel that in their wallet. I even hear statements that the middle class has securities accounts of more than EUR 1 million. I don't know a middle class with more than 1 million euros in a securities account. Today we have a balanced package ahead of us. The people who work and who save, the middle class to which you refer, we support. With the VAT reduction to 6%, we ensure the demolition and reconstruction of additional purchasing power. We ensure that people who take care of their parents are supported. We ensure that people who work can improve the combination of work and family by increasing the deduction of childcare costs. We take care of the people who undertake. We're gonna make an increased investment deduction. We make sure that people can learn for life. The opposition is not saying a word about this today. I'm sorry to hear that. That is something that should be said. At least I'm glad I said it here. We are always looking for a balance between income and expenditure. Of course, we must always look for a number of revenues. We have found this income in, among other things, the non-indexation of tax expenditure. That is what we are talking about, but that is what happened in the previous legislature. Above all, we should not draw any lines and blame each other. Non-indexation is a small effort at the micro level, but at macro level it generates a lot of extra revenue. That is what I said in committee. We all know that excise duties are being increased. However, we do not just do that. Reference is made to excise duties which have been raised in the past. However, in the case of excise duties on tobacco, there are two objectives and two things that justify what we are doing. In the first instance, this measure seeks to ensure that we move towards a society where smoking is as low as possible. We are well aware of the impact of smoking on society and on health. Secondly, we are also looking at what is happening abroad in this area. If you look at the price of a pack of cigarettes in Belgium or France, you will see that there is still a very big difference. I have already referred to this in committee, Mr Vermeersch. Reference is also made to other issues. I shall come back to a number of very specific and technical points, including family care, Mr Donné. Reference is also made to the annual fee of the securities account. Heavy words are used: it's a repair, it's being patched up. I can tell you that anyone who reads the text very well knows that the principle of annual tax on securities accounts has changed and that we are no longer working on the basis of the holder but on the basis of the securities account. The tax departs from there, in a very simple and transparent way. When we look at the expected returns, we see that they are also particularly significant. I would therefore ask you to look at the annual tax on securities accounts from this attitude. They work in a different way than the last one. You shouldn't call that the 2.0. No, this is an annual tax on securities accounts. We are indeed providing a significant return on our account, which, of course, we link to the corona crisis. A contribution is being made because significant expenditure has been incurred. We have made a great deal of effort in the care sector. We've given the care staff a significant increase. We've given extra support. On the other hand, there is also a significant income through the securities account. We received the opinion of the Council of State two weeks ago with a number of comments. As I said in Parliament last week and as we have always said, we will examine these comments and respond to them. Mr Vermeersch, you also spoke about foreign real estate. You rightly said that we have been waiting ten years for a solution. This file's been dragging on for ten years. I am glad that after ten weeks I managed to find a solution together with the government. This solution responds to the problem. I think it is only logical that we should find a solution to this as soon as possible, because I believe that you would also be able to fill in if we were to continue to pay fines. We have been looking for a quick solution. That's the solution now. It has indeed been a problem that has been going on for a long time, but we have solved it, together with this government. You then accused me of saying about foreign real estate that this is not a preliminaries of the broad fiscal reform. I would like to be clear about this tax reform. I have made this quite clear several times in committee. We want, of course, to implement the tax reform. We are ambitious in this. I think we should be ambitious. For you, even you, said in committee that this country needs fiscal reform. I hear across all party boundaries in this House that we need fiscal reform. So I am convinced that we must have that ambition. I am also convinced that we must have this ambition because we also have this question from the European Union and from the OECD. I believe that we should be ambitious to take further steps in this respect, because a great deal of work has already been done in the previous legislatures. By Minister Geens at the time, by the Supreme Court of Finance. There's a lot on the table. We must now give direction to this and we must take that project because I am convinced that fiscal reform will give oxygen to this society and give oxygen to our economy. In fact, it is a very important measure, perhaps the most important one we can take, as well as, of course, all the investments we have to make. When I say that we have no taboos in this broad fiscal reform, I think that is only logical. Should we veto it today, we should not start it. If we want to think about a comprehensive tax reform, everything must be on the table and there must be no taboos. At the moment, the government will look at what is possible and what might be in that balanced package. You have cited a number of examples of things that are not yet on the table at all, but of which you naturally like to blame us for having them. But then there should be no taboos and no taboos on the table. Let me now turn to the section on the fight against fraud. We are indeed ambitious. We are ambitious in the figures, in the objectives we are pursuing, and also in the plans and projects we have to make. That will require a lot of energy and time, but I am convinced that we can carry out what is ahead today. Fighting fraud is like silos today. There is silo economic fraud, silo tax fraud and so on. Besides, there's still the court. We must ensure that this method has worked two legislative hours ago by my colleague, Mr Crombez, that the parties involved cooperate and congregate the College. In fact, I am convinced that cooperation will lead to methods that can be learned from best practices, so that we can make great progress in the fight against fraud. In fact, yesterday we also tabled the proposal for urgent provisions on the fight against fraud. So we are taking steps forward. We had a meeting last month with the College of Officials. Next week, we'll be back together with them. We really want to ensure that there is a multi-annual action plan, which will be coordinated across all the different departments by myself and by my colleague, Mr Dermagne, who is Vice-President of the College. In addition, the information on the bank accounts held by the Central Contact Point (CAP) will be enriched with the balances on those accounts. I would also like to reassure those Members who had questions about this: the CAP should not be surfed to www.cap.be; the information is not publicly accessible and will be checked at the time when there are suspicions of fraud. It must also be validated first by an official. There are therefore different thresholds; different locks must be unlocked when there is a suspicion of fraud. It's not right that that information is just on the street. However, in the coalition agreement the agreement was made to investigate whether the CAP could be used to detect fraud through data mining. That could, of course, help us. Again, that never starts from the idea that the data is available to anyone who wants to study them. No, that will of course also be with certain locks. There is indeed an opinion from the Data Protection Authority. We have also justified our action in this area, because we attach great importance to the rights of taxpayers and, of course, respect the privacy of our citizens. What we will certainly not do is treat all people as fraudsters, as has just been said here. Those are the lines. Anyway, that's not our starting point. There must be clear indications of fraud before the CAP can be consulted. Mr. Van Hees, once again you're suing that the Fed Finance is understaffed. We have applied the rule to replace staff in the control services, which applied both under Mr Van Overtveldt and under Mr De Croo. You keep saying that there are only four people there. But they work in central service. For the operational service, which is therefore looking for fraud in the field and carrying out checks, we are replacing one-on-one. Mr Van Hees, I have told you several times, I understand your concern, but we are working on it. So far, the elements relating to the fight against fraud and the financial part. There has been little or nothing said about another area, namely the relance, and I find that particularly regrettable, because I think that is so important. In any case, Mr Dermagne will have to come back to this later, and we will have to invest more and increase our investment rate. I am convinced that if we want to make our society futureproof and ensure, as I said earlier, that there is oxygen again in our society, we must make efforts in this area. With the Transformation Fund at the Federal Participation and Investment Company (FPIM), we will support companies in their solvency and ensure that their buffers are strengthened and that they can transform into more digitisation and more sustainability. I am convinced that this will be an important stimulus, as will the fiscal reform and reforms of the labour market and of pensions, which we want to implement and which will certainly explain to those other colleagues. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to answer three specific questions. Mr Donné had a question about family care. We have already discussed this in committee. He sells the measure in question as the big tax increase. If we look at the facts, that is not the case. We ensure, first and foremost, that those who provide care are effectively supported. Secondly, if certain groups already have a concession today and suffer a disadvantage because of the new system, then they can count on a transitional period. In doing so, we give legal certainty to those concerned. He points out that a group of people will not get what they would have been entitled to. You're selling that as a tax increase. With all due respect, but at some point, we also have to make choices. For those who have not yet received this, it is not possible to say that there is a tax increase. We must be fair and honest in the discussion. With regard to the commercial vehicles, there is nothing new under the sun. The advantage of all kinds, which was introduced in 2012 and I will not enter into the entire technical discussion, is calculated on the basis of the catalog value and the CO2 emissions of a car, which is compared to a reference value based on the value of all newly registered cars of that particular year. That rule is based on a certain philosophy. For the record, over the past two years, that advantage has gone down. I didn't hear you say congratulations. Now, according to the system, that goes up. That's just the situation there is. I therefore believe that we cannot talk about a flat tax increase for the company car owner, as this has been applied since 2012. It was foreseeable and in practice everyone knew of course that the coefficient could fall. I do not, therefore, agree with the comments on this issue. Mr Van Hees, you had a question about pensions. Mr Van Hees, you said that the tax and other measures taken by the previous government have reduced tax reductions for pensions. I think that thanks to the combination of the adjusted tax scales, the removal of the 30% scale resulting from the shift tax and the reform of the tax cuts for pensions, pensioners have higher net incomes. So what you just said is not correct. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not expect any applause from you here today, but when it comes to finances and the fight against fraud, we must dare to have a fair debate. I hope that we will be able to have that honest debate effectively in committee in the coming years. I am convinced that this should be possible because there is a great deal of talent in the Finance Committee, both in the majority and in the opposition. It's people who can be talked about and think about. I therefore hope that we will use the power of that committee in the following years. I would also like to thank you for the discussions we have had and I am always open to further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u25	Minister, I found your introduction very interesting. I have learned above all that in the meantime you are in the majority in De Pinte and that a majority also has a certain strategy. Moreover, this strategy is also fairly predictable. The new revenue does not affect anyone, it is micro-efforts. You are a Christian Democrat and you know, of course, that there has once been a miraculous bread multiplication. You probably thought that what was possible then should be possible now, let's try it again. So we scrape a few crumbs together everywhere and eventually it becomes a big bread. No one's gonna feel anything, and everyone's gonna take huge advantage of it. After all, we can distribute all kinds of things in all directions. That's a nice story, the story of a majority. However, it is not very credible that the sum of these crumbs that no one feels can lead to a sharing policy that will benefit everyone. Something is not right, but that is the story of the majority. Additional purchasing power, the weaker ones are supported, an increased deduction, we take care of people -- that was the Christian Democratic part of your good news show -- and there's a balance between income and spending. Tobacco is a good example, by the way. The aim is both to obtain budgetary revenues and to encourage people to smoke less. I hope for your sake that the latter will not succeed, otherwise the income will be disappointing again. The securities tax will have a significant yield. It'll be an annual tax, you say, and you'll link it to the corona crisis. I have always worked well with my good colleague Servais. I just wanted to respond to what he had said, but because he had responded to my brother and not to me I was not allowed to invoke a personal fact. I told him that if that is linked to the corona problem, let us put an end date on it. Yes, he replied, but that will take more than a year. I am a very constructive person, so let us not put that deadline at the end of 2021, but at the end of 2022 or, possibly, 2023. If it is actually intended to finance the additional expenditure of corona, then I assume that we will not burden the future with that when that coronapil is consumed. So, Minister of Finance, how long do you think the consequences of corona will drag? When can we expect the end of that securities tax from you? If you say there is no end point, please no longer link it to the corona crisis. It's either one or the other. Call this the strategy of the minority, but an answer would be nice there. You are planning a major fiscal reform. I look forward to that with great interest, because you are right to say that this is a very good thing. The problem with tax reforms is usually that one forgets the first step. If you agree with us now to take that first step, you are a good ally in that exercise, namely the N-VA Group. That first step is also a cap, in particular one that really interests us, namely the upper cap. Let us now agree on the maximum that the government claims to want to do with tax skimming. If you put a top priority on this, which should not be abandoned, then the whole debate on where, in what fair and more efficient way we find these resources, will become a very interesting exercise, which we are certainly in favour of. However, our fear is that, if, for example, the impression is given that taxes can be levied on rental income, this simply serves to further pump up the totality. It is then simply a technique to increase, under the name fiscal reform, the total skimming of the government. Can you assure us that your fiscal reform will not increase the total skimming, but will preferably even have the ambition to bring it down, given that we are at the top of our agenda at European and even worldwide level? If that is the first step, then I think that the discussion can be much more complex than if you refuse to commit yourself to it. In fact, if we know the current tax grip of the government on our citizens, businesses and society, then it must be possible to guarantee a normal government operation with a smaller government charge. In all neighbouring countries, better public services are possible at a lower cost. When you start this tax reform, please reassure us first, and then the discussion can become more interesting. Just now the name of Wim Moesen has fallen. He taught me for two years. He's a very friendly man. He then told me that as a young man he wanted to help people, but couldn't stand blood, because otherwise he would have become a doctor. He became a doctor, but in the economy. He was the patron of our public finance department in the good old Ufsia, the Jesuit castle of Antwerp. He was quoted earlier because he has passed on his wisdom about your work in the media. He has written a standard manual, together with father Vic Van Rompuy, also an authority in the field of public finances. He talks about EUR 3 billion of unsubstantiated income and expenditure. He points out a 4% difference in the level of debt between your estimate and that of the EU. Unfortunately, those aren't details. It may be said that 4% out of 100 is not much, but that is about EUR 19 billion. If he's even a little bit right, we have a serious miscalculation on your part. Interesting was also what he wrote about an acceptable deficit. This is economics or corporate accounting for those who do not want to use loan words. There is, of course, a fundamental difference between consumer spending and that is the money that comes in every month and goes out again, so you must have covered it and investment. Moesen says: in an easy exercise, 2.2 % of GDP investment is an average one should strive for, perhaps even a little more. He says: if you work out a path that goes to 6%, then of course you will have 4 % of consumer expenditure that you will cover with, I suspect, loans. Of course, that's not by the housekeeping book. You don't even have to be a doctor to establish that. He calls your growth expectations unrealistic. I think it's good to take those comments. You are talking about tax fraud. You say that you are very ambitious, and you refer to one of your predecessors, John Crombez. You're going to use his technique again, but you're expecting a much larger return. Even if I were to follow your ambition, I see a certain lack of logic in this ambition, because EUR 200 million of additional revenue from the fight against tax and social fraud will grow to EUR 1 billion in 2024. What I don't understand is why it's not the other way around. Why do you not say that we will pick the lowest amount of fruit in the first year, which will yield a billion dollars, but we will, of course, have the problem that those we have caught will be more careful after that and will not stumble on the same stone anymore. So you'll probably have a smaller group of people you can easily catch. In addition, there are others who will adapt to your techniques to catch them. What is the logic of thinking that your mechanism will result in you catching more tax and social fraud year after year? I'm missing something in your reasoning somewhere. The CAP will be discussed in due course. I would like to make one small point. You say you can't find the numbers on www.cap.be. I'm going to drop out of my opposition role and say that you did well not to make that public. However, these figures do reach the government and you have a huge confidence in that government. What's the bottom line? People earn an income through labor. This income is communicated to the government and is taxed on it. Then the government took a piece of that. We call that taxes. That other part may be freely available to the people. If you say: I will not share that part publicly, but I will look at it, as a government, and I think you are indeed crossing a red line. Because pretending that the government is a neutral and never suspicious greatness, I have some problems with that. My last word. You ended up, as all your colleagues begin and end up in this government, with binding words. That's good. Can you then explain why no recommendation and no opposition amendment is considered seriously enough to go along with it? Where's that connection? When does she go beyond words? I can accept that when an amendment or a recommendation is tabled which is really contrary to your policy, because of course there are political differences, you want to make a point and not go along with it, but how far does that link actually go? How far does the openness that you are demonstrating go to the opposition, because let us be honest in the past few weeks, we have not only found in all the departments of the European Union that the majority will set up a wall where the opposition will never get through, at any time or with any proposal, no matter how reasonable, even if we turn ministers' words into recommendations, because they have been forgotten in their own documents. Then how credible is your call to connection? That is a question which I am asking not only with you, but with the whole government. You happen to be sitting here explaining the majority strategy in what we will call Greater Pinte.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u26	Minister, I too was very fascinated by the introduction of your answer. You compared a Belgian budget with the discussions of a budget in a municipality. Of course, you were not present in the discussion of the multiannual plan and the budget in my city, Dendermonde, but I can tell you that we have a habit of naming what is right, as we do here in legislative proposals and drafts. I admit that a Belgian budget makes it more difficult to find good things in it. You say, however, that the opposition is only critical. Just mentioning the good points does not seem to me to be opposing. The role of the opposition is simply to oppose it and also to criticize it, often rightly so. You say that the opposition always uses the same strategy in the budgetary negotiations. Despite my 'youthy' age, I am sitting here long enough to see a strategy with that majority when it comes to selling budgets in this House. By default there are overestimates of revenue, underestimates of expenditure, systematically minimize when criticism comes from the Court of Auditors, from the European Commission and from professors and systematically when criticism comes from the opposition. A fourth point which always comes back to the discussion of budget negotiations is the application of what Nietzsche said: one hears only the questions to which one is able to answer. Many questions are not answered. Then we come to the next stage, that of participation and of the wall between the majority and the opposition. There too there is no trend break with the previous government. That wall between majority and opposition stood there for a moment with the Michel government. The participation often rejects justified opposition amendments, without any room for debate with members of the majority parties, because the discussion is usually limited to opposition members and government members, as is the case today. The majority MEPs should only vote for it as a slave, preferably without any debate. In the four legislatures that I am sitting here, that debate has only become less. Now that the rare white ravens in this area have disappeared from the majority, such as Mr Eric Van Rompuy, who may be critical of the financing of the tax shift, that is absolutely impossible. You mentioned the phrases that always return to the opposition when they discuss a budget. The majority do the same. She uses phrases that everything is good for people, that everything is good for purchasing power. You also mentioned the style on which these sentences and the message of the opposition are brought. This is usually brought here in a style as if one still has to convince oneself of what one actually says. There's some kind of good news show going on. Senses with football terms such as tous ensemble and other hollow words and excuses are used for the defence of matters of which, if one were to be in an opposition role, one would be a hard opponent. However, as soon as one sits in the majority one suffers from acute amnesia. Those hollow words and excuses are used not to take a number of things with them. I would like to give a concrete example, which is once again in your budget today, in particular the arrangement for the staff of the former ministers, on which the successive federal governments have been announcing since 2011 that they will be tackled, but which is still unspoiled in the budget. I cannot help but conclude that the policy letters I have in the meantime all the policy letters of all the ministers and secretaries of state, and there are many, read, all contain measures that cost money. So I don't envy you in your role as Minister of Finance. After all, you are the only one who has to pay for these measures. As a result, I have come to the conclusion and the realization that there is a reason why the other parties wanted the CD&V in the current government, although your party is not needed arithmetically at all to get a majority. They count on a biblical miracle of growth. After all, your income and your expenditure do not correspond at all. For each euro you enter, two are spent. My good colleague Wouter Vermeersch has already made that clear in his speech today. Our vision, constructive as we are, is next. We give you a billion euros in savings in our amendments by cutting expenditure. There you will find a very strong supporter in us. However, when it comes to seeking new income with yet another predictable approach to fraud, with the collection of excise duties and with pay-back effects, which always come back, and when it comes to making the government's seizure, which is already part of the world summit, even greater, I can assure you that we will be opposing, whether or not with the strategies you are used to, but by pursuing the opposition that needs to be pursued against such a policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u27	Madam President, I will be brief. The two previous speakers have long addressed the Minister's introduction. Well, that came to me a little bit harsh about maybe. I regret that you look at the interaction between majority and opposition in such a sterile way. I also had the impression that you had hoped to receive applause from the opposition. I think we are all very critical, but also very constructive, in committee. When discussing the programme law, we even made suggestions which you included. I did that today, in the context of family care. I'm a little sorry that you're reducing it to the sterile majority and opposition. As Mr De Roover said, we ourselves have shown very little evidence of democratic renewal in recent weeks when discussing policy papers and policy statements. Even if we made reasonable recommendations, they were simply voted off. But I don't want to talk about it any further. I just want to say that you have not always listened carefully to the answers you have given. When it came to the commercial vehicles, it was not about the CO2 reference rate. I was talking about the new method of calculation, the WLTP. So I was talking about something else. As far as the securities tax is concerned, I have never said that the middle class has capital on a one-million-dollar securities account, but that it will indirectly feel the effects of that tax. Sometimes there's more nuance in the story than I've got in my answer. I do not need any further answer on these two previous points. On the last point about care, I was a little surprised by your comment. I think that the punishment you say that abolishing a tax reduction is not a tax increase in the future. If we decide tomorrow to abolish child benefit, but we only do so for children born from 1 January 2021, do you think this would be a popular measure? Do you think people wouldn't feel like a tax increase? I think that's a bit of a strange argument.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u28	Madam President, Minister, it is not up to the opposition to sell your tax administration's programme to the people. You yourself do not go beyond a few sentences, as my group chair said, which are always handled by the majority. I'm going to repeat one sentence: we're looking for a balance. I asked you about the calculation of the program law. We're not getting that cipher. The reason why we do not get it is, of course, because there is no balance in that programme law. If you were to give the figures, it would be clear that this net represents a tax increase, that you are a representative of a tax government. You said in connection with the non-indexation, that it is about small percentage points that have a large yield. The opposite is, of course, true, the proceeds are only EUR 66 million. In the long term, non-indexation will have a major impact on individual citizens, especially those with lower incomes who use some of these deductions. With regard to the securities tax, you are trying to suppress the criticism of the population by saying that this tax will be used to finance health care. Minister, you said to the press that the funds will be used for additional expenditure in health care as a result of the corona crisis and extra hands on the bed of corona patients. That's what you said in the press. That is, of course, wronging the truth. It's a misleading sales pitch, perhaps a little white lie. Corona is being abused here to push through a tax. It says literally in the texts that the proceeds are added to the alternative sources of funding of social security. That is, of course, quite different from what you said in the press. This government wants to fight fake news, but that this government introduces a new system of solidarity for the rescue of part of social security is fake news of course. The term solidarity contribution is clearly misleading. It's a misleading sales pitch. Anyone who heard the Minister on the radio also had the impression that this would be a temporary measure to finance the additional costs of the corona crisis. That doesn't add up either. It does not say anywhere that this tax will be abolished. It is reminiscent of the solidarity contribution that your partymate, the late Jean-Luc Dehaene, introduced in 1994 and which we are allowed to continue to pay despite various periods of high economic growth. Colleagues, this security tax is therefore not a temporary measure. Nor is it a measure to get more hands on the bed in hospitals. Then what is it? It is a new structural burden. The majority parties want to make it appear that this is supposedly a rich tax, but it is a flat tax on the middle class. I'll explain it again. For example, people with an art collection of EUR 10 million will not be taxed in any way, but the tax puts the budgets of many organisations and governments under pressure. If they want to keep their budget tight, they need to look for new funding. So new income and taxes. And they end up, as they always do in this country, on the middle-class hood. So we get the effect that this tax is indirectly borne by the middle class. It is not only a tax on the middle class, it is also a tax on entrepreneurship in this country. Entrepreneurs will quite rightly see these securities tax as an additional tax on corporate activity. Shares in name are not endorsed, but a lot of companies also have a savings fund. In addition to the capital of one's own company, this savings fund is often in investments. Those companies were already subject to a relative value added tax, and that tax is now added to that. Normally these investments are intended to compensate for the much too low pension of the self-employed, but they will now be taxed extra. This tax plumbing and the tax mess, while many companies are fighting for their survival, cannot be explained at the moment. While many self-employed and entrepreneurs are currently fighting for their business, you are starving with their retirement. This is not a solidarity contribution, but an attack on entrepreneurship. With this tax one no longer fishes persons but the securities account itself. It concerns every natural person, but also every legal person who has a securities account. This means that the regions, the Communities, the provinces, the intercommunals, the autonomous municipal companies, the cities, the municipalities, the agglomerations, the OCMWs, the sickness funds, the universities, the foundations and the non-profit organisations are also endorsed by this tax increase. The federal government wants to tax almost every other government or institution in this country. It certainly seems logical to us that one government should not impose taxes on the other, and that is also what the Association of Flemish Cities and Municipalities says. You already referred to De Pinte and as the title mayor of De Pinte, the VVSG will undoubtedly not be unknown to you. If there should be one party that is sensitive to what lives on the local boards, it should be CD&V. As you know, a large majority of CD&V mayors are particularly critical of this purple-green coalition. Who can blame them if we see the first concrete policy actions of this government? I have one final point on this security tax. The fact that public legal entities, the public authorities, have to pay this tax means yet another scandalous transfer within Belgium. The Flemish Region, the provinces, the municipalities and the OCMWs will have to pay off, to the extent that they have securities accounts worth more than 1 million euros. That'll all go to the federal cashier. On top of that is the fact that most of those securities account holders can be found in Flanders anyway. Now that we are in an unprecedented social and economic crisis, every government in this country will need all the means to pursue a recovery policy. Regional and local authorities are milked by the federal level and limited in their ability to invest freely, just when this is absolutely necessary. That goes against every idea of state reform in this country. Through a back door, a tax on the savings of the municipalities, the provinces and the Länder, you are now organising a transfer towards federal social security, a bottomless pit. Finally, on your broad fiscal reform, you say that there are no taboos. Does that also apply to your coalition partners? Do the MR and Open Vld agree, for example, are there no taboos for those parties in a comprehensive tax reform? I would like to make it quite clear in this House that there are some taboos for us. Capital taxes are one of them. Belgium already has a lot of fragmented capital taxes and is already one of the countries with the highest wealth revenue in Europe today. This does not seem to be enough for this government dominated by the left. Nor do we want an increase in excise duties, because that is a stupid tax increase. Not only are we saying that, Mr Piedboeuf, in his well-known intellectual honesty, he has admitted that in the committee. We do not want a carbon tax either, because a carbon tax becomes another attack on the middle class. Mr. Secretary, you're actually denying the sun's shining. The middle class in this country is overloading. A finance minister who denies that in a country like Belgium eventually denies the shining of the sun. For us neither taxes on rental income, because such a tax becomes a hold-up on homeowners and has an important, undeniable social impact, namely an increase in rental prices, directly but also indirectly. If, after taxes on rental income, homeowners withdraw their property from the rental market and seek out other investments, this will also indirectly lead to an increase in rental prices. No SUV fee for us either. The proceeds of car taxes in this country already exceed the cape of EUR 20 billion. For the first time, all taxes on cars raised more than 20 billion euros in 2019. In the country with the highest taxes, there is only one road: simplification and a structural reduction of taxes. A tax reduction is a social relief measure. In our view, that is the measure that this government must take. Less taxes can eventually lead to more revenue for the state treasury.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u29	Madam President, I would like to add two more small lines. Minister, given the heavy cuts in FPS Finance staff, you are telling me that there will be a 1:1 replacement for tax control functions. First of all, this was not included in your policy statement. It is because I came with the subject and asked you the question that you indicated that you would do like your predecessors by doing a 1/1 replacement for the control conditions. But that wasn't part of your plans at the base. At the bottom, in your plans, you were considering a SPF as thin as possible, on the one hand. On the other hand, you intend to do the same as the Van Overtveldt and De Croo ministers, but they have expressed the principle without applying it. Indeed, as soon as they have expressed it by following closely the evolution of the number of controllers - I no longer have the numbers in hand, but you must know them - you know that they did not respect this principle at all. Who tells me that you, unlike your two predecessors, will respect this principle? I don't know. I'm not going to sue you for intent; we'll see. And, trust me, I will follow closely the evolution of these figures. If you meet this commitment for the control functions, this means that for the other FPS Finance functions, the costs will be even more severe if you want to keep the reduction ratio you have expected. In this respect, I do not know how you will proceed: service to citizens, receiving people, explaining opportunities, etc. I do not see how it will be feasible to carry out the other FPS Finance missions. I come to the second point in relation to the taxation of pensioners. The tax increase of 400 euros for pensioners was foreseen in the 2015 law of the tax shift for the year 2020. You are telling me that, because of the lower rates and the abolition of the 30% tranche, pensioners are winners in net. I did the math and you're actually right. A pensioner who receives 1 580 euros or 1 600 euros gross per month – since that is what we are talking about in the context of the minimum pension – will pay 355 euros less tax due to the lower rates. But if he had not had this penalty of 400 euros, it was not 355 euros of tax that he would pay less but 755 euros, more than double. So we see what this pensioner is going to pay less in terms of personal tax, but I would remind you that the tax shift was a tax slide. This resulted in less personal tax being paid, but more consumer taxes were being paid, which were fundamentally unfair, and which affected much more low income, including those pensioners. This means, therefore, that the 355 euros he pays in less than IPPs are largely offset by the consumption taxes that this pensioner will pay in addition. In total, this pensioner loses in the tax shift. I repeat that if this government's intention has changed from the previous government and if now we want to take into account pensioners and provide for reduced or no taxes – which would be better – for low pensions, we have to review what the tax shift affects. Indeed, the tax shift was explicitly expressed as the desire to discriminate negatively against pensioners in relation to assets.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reply briefly to all your kind answers and questions. My introduction has clearly triggered some things and I had no intention of making fun of you. If that has happened, then I would like to apologize. Anyway, it is a strategy that works, because after six years we were again in the majority, so what is stopping you from following that strategy? Of course, I follow the strategy of the majority, it would still be flawed. I would also like to point out that in my first interview as mayor, I said the following: 'A majority is only as strong as its opposition'. If that can be a binding message, Mr De Roover, then that is one I think from the bottom of my heart. That's true. A majority must be constantly challenged by the opposition. That is the role of the opposition. So if I say that we are a good government, I say that we have a good opposition and if you say that we are a bad government, then I will let you finish the sentence. [[Laughter]] That statement always helps me, even in this matter. Mr De Roover, Mrs Pas, it was certainly not my intention to be negative. I only see, whether in the city council of De Pinte, in Dendermonde or in Mortsel, that the same principles always apply. A number of questions were similar with different parties. Firstly, it was asked whether the annual tax on the securities account is now a temporary or a sustainable measure. Mr Vermeersch, in the radio interview you referred to, I said literally that it will be an annual tax, so the tax will continue to exist. The proceeds will be used to pay the cost of the corona crisis. I don't know if you remember the agreement to get more people to bed, which was concluded in July or August? This agreement with the sector costs us EUR 600 million a year in structural terms. If the public authorities are making such efforts to ensure that the healthcare sector is supported in a structural way, I think it is only logical that we are also looking for a way to obtain structural income to pay for it. When it comes to tax reform, Mr De Roover, there is apparently positive news for us, because your party will help us. After all, the government agreement states: "Thanks to a broadening of the taxable basis, we are providing sustainable financing for this reduction. It is therefore a matter of shifting the tax burden. The total tax burden will not increase." You can take that important starting point with you. But when it comes to reforms, I think it is equally important to include the objectives. The objectives are to reduce the burden on labour, sustainability and simplification. For the rest, I will certainly take into account some general comments, especially when it comes to the securities account tax, which I will discuss in detail in Parliament when presenting the draft on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u31	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? We turn to the next theme.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u32	Madam President, at this very late hour, I would like to begin with something hopeful. I address you, Mrs Verlinden. Madam Minister, you opened a door in the discussion of your policy paper and I was very pleased with that. You have announced that you are prepared to organise thematic debates, irrespective of topicality, in order to deepen and facilitate substantive matters. I'm quoting you literally. You would like to have specific debates and let them take place before the texts are submitted to Parliament and, therefore, to discuss matters with us in advance, rather than coming back to explain and support them. Those are your literal words. You also say that Parliament can be a forum for debate and policy direction. I'm really not Catholic, but I really feel like shouting hallelujah. Hallelujah, ladies and gentlemen, a debate. I cannot look into your head, Madam Minister, but I think that you, like me, sometimes ask questions about the so-called oral questions, which are actually a kind of reading-out of what one might call written questions. Even after the short time of one and a half years that I have been here, I think that the reading culture in this House is running out. I do not understand why people should be happy with a pre-written document, that they may never have read it themselves and that was made by an employee, and then listen to the Minister's reply and repeat the previous reply. So I am very pleased, Madam Minister, that you want to bring something else in and open up the debate culture. You yourself gave a number of examples of debates that you would like to enter into. You talked about the tension between security and privacy, how we can make the police attractive again, how we can restore respect for the police and how much freedom we are willing to sacrifice for national crises. These themes are very valuable. I think colleagues should follow your example. I believe that this is the first concrete step in the new political culture, because unfortunately we have not been able to see much of the policy papers 2.0, since no recommendation from the opposition is really being considered in substance. Those recommendations are constantly voted down. I come to a second theme, the management of the corona crisis. I believe that there is very little in your policy paper for 2021. You are talking about the GPI and the task force of the federal and local police. That is certainly correct, but since we have been in the federal phase of crisis management for months, I find it surprising that there is so little in it. There is nothing about a pandemic law, nothing about the criticism of multiple bodies in crisis management, nothing about the somewhat difficult position of Celeval that constantly changes, nothing about the relationship between the corona commissioner and the cells in the crisis center and how they work together. There is nothing in it about the recommendations that will come from the special committee. These recommendations will be made during the year and will therefore have to be implemented. You're not saying anything about that, which I find surprising. Madam Minister, the message I would like to give you is that you must claim your place alongside the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health. You have every right and every reason to do so. Crisis management is your responsibility, the crisis center is your responsibility. I think you deserve a place next to those two prominent gentlemen. I urge you to take your place, and I trust you will do so well. I'm going back to the policy paper. In general, we are satisfied with that policy paper. Many projects from the previous government are being continued. I'm thinking i-Police and FOCUS, identity fraud, embedding the 112 into a supraprovincial structure and the IPU. We are very pleased with that. In addition, you also include in your policy paper a number of files that we have already laid down in this Chamber. I am talking about administrative enforcement, the Mercury II project, the resolution on recreational areas and the general ban on places. In general, we are very satisfied with what is in it. We are also very pleased that you want to continue the exercise on the optimal scale of the police zones. You say that scaling and local proximity are not opposites for you. I fully agree with that. This is sometimes used as an argument, but I fully agree with you. I am very pleased that you wish to continue this exercise, but I would ask you to include Brussels in it too, because that is often forgotten. I see in your policy paper and in your policy statement that you are very open to research into the application of new technologies. You are talking about the lack of tasers, about facial recognition and a number of other things. However, I would like to point out that some coalition partners, including Ecolo and Green, have once tabled a resolution in this Chamber asking for a three-year moratorium on certain technologies. It contains two recommendations. A first is the effective moratorium of three years and a second is an open debate on this in Parliament. I fully agree with that debate. We can add that to our list. A moratorium on technological development and its use for our aid and security services of three years seems to me to be an eternity in digital evolution. I would like to draw your attention to this. I understand we can't just test everything. We've already done that for a few things in which control bodies whistle us back. I can understand why that is. I would ask you to consider setting up a framework for testing, under the control of all our organs. For example, things can be tested in a good way, provided the necessary checks are made. Unfortunately, violence against emergency and security forces has been on the news a lot in recent months. I am very pleased with the first steps that have been taken, both by you and by the Minister of Justice. I would argue that, for example, the zero-opportunity depot should apply not only to the police, but also to the paramedics and firefighters. It seems very strange to me to treat them differently. I also read that you want to work on a smoother recruitment procedure and training for the 112 calltakers. That is a very good thing. Also pay attention to the psychological burden on the people who work there. That's really not a simple job. Someone once told me you rarely last more than five years. In fact, we can set up a lot more guidance pathways for this and make it easier for these people to get to other services via mobility. It's too bad to lose people like that. You also say in your note that you wish to cooperate more closely with the Permanent Commission of Local Police and that they would be much closer to the decision-making process. I certainly welcome this, but I would also like to draw attention to the same system with the aid areas. They're very asking for that. ASTRID is a very important tool for communication within and between the security services. This tool also stays the longest in the air for example a blackout. This is a very important tool for crisis communication and also just for day-to-day operational operation. I would also like to draw your attention to that. I am glad that Mrs De Sutter is here herself. Her other file, besides Civil Service cases, is the spectrum file. It is very important that we have an urgent clarification there about a kind of guarantee for ASTRID, so that they can move forward with it and so that they can continue the modernisation projects. I would also like to talk about the revision of KUL standards. We fully agree that we absolutely must do something about this. I therefore fully agree with the fact that you are convening a multidisciplinary committee of experts to do so. Only I'm worried about timing. By 2024, the committee has to come out with something. I wonder whether we can't do it faster and whether we can't already get an interim feedback at regular intervals. I would also like to mention the money, in particular the amount of EUR 50 million you register for the police and the amount of EUR 25 million for the fire department. We also discussed it in committee. I still do not understand that these amounts are included in the commissions and not in the ordinary basic allocations. After all, especially for the fire department, you already have a very clear view of how the money will be distributed. You have even built up a multi-annual trajectory. Why is that weird? That's strange, because it's also a clumsy procedure. You will then have to ask your colleagues to re-allocate those amounts. To this end, a royal decision must be made. It simply gives much less legal certainty and less security for the services to which they will ultimately be entitled. You won't be surprised if I come back to the NAVAP scheme as well. We will re-table our amendment here because it has not yet been settled. I know that you have indicated that you would make urgent work of it. First, it was stated that it would be done in the framework of budgetary control in 2021. However, last week you reported that you would come out with it more quickly. How's that going? After all, the regulation is very important for the local authorities, especially for the use of policemen. Those who leave NAVAP without the support of the federal police cannot be replaced. The regulation therefore seems very important to me. I just want to ask you something else. The move from the Crisis Center is becoming very urgent. It was actually planned for 2021. Now, however, I hear in the corridors that the FINTO project would not continue, because it would have to accommodate additional cabinets. Can you confirm if that's true and if there's any alternative to the Crisis Center yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u33	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, given the hours of the night, I am not going to repeat my speech here in committee. No one's expecting that either. I would like to mention a few points which I consider important enough not to leave blue in this plenary. You know, moreover, that on behalf of Flemish Interest I have put a number of recommendations on paper and that they have been put to the vote. Unfortunately, the committee has not stopped them. Even N-VA voted away these recommendations without comment or explanation. Understand who can understand, because I think that these recommendations are worth examining and even incorporating them into this government's security policy. Madam Secretary, a first open door I would like to kick in is that of recruitment and training of police officers. In your policy paper and policy statement, you talk on several occasions about a strengthened organisation, where 50 million euros would be given priority each year to the recruitment of 1,600 aspirants, starting next year. The question arises as to whether this objective is sufficient to meet the shortage of men. It is not possible to avoid the conclusion. Pretty recent figures show that at the end of 2019 there was a shortage of 1,500 local police officers and 2,000 federal police officers and that there is an annual outflow of 1,400 police officers. As you know, we have made a first recommendation to drastically increase these annual recruitments. Madam Minister, you also say that recruitment will be reformed and that the lead times will be shortened. This is an ambitious objective which, of course, we, like many other parties, can support. We therefore have a great deal of sympathy for the action to be taken in this area. However, we would like to stress that this cannot and should lead to a reduction in the quality of potential recruits. Never mind that people with a criminal record could get a place within the structures. We interviewed the then Minister of the Interior about this in 2018. His answers weren't exactly reassuring. Hard drug criminals, fighters, heavy traffic criminals, among others, were admitted to police training, although the selection procedure revealed that they were unfit. Our recommendation is logical: the quality of potential recruits must not be reduced and there must be a complete ban on criminals with regard to the selection procedure. Madam Minister, I believe that the biggest issue in recent months, but also in recent years, is well known, in particular the violence against the police and emergency services. It is not just a slash and impact in Brussels, it is a problem that extends to other cities. It itself descends to the provincial capital of Bruges. It is a problem which cannot be reduced to a corona-related problem, as I said in committee. This problem has been going on for a long time. We must put our policies in order there as a matter of urgency. I have already put the necessary oral questions in committee and in plenary. Not with the intention of beating it off, Mrs. Ingels, and hearing an answer from the minster and rattling a reply. No, I'm asking those questions because I'm worried. I am not alone with my appeal, with the exception perhaps of the Ecolo Green Group, which felt it necessary to put a company game on the market where points could be won by knocking off police officers. I think Mr De Maegd has already questioned you about this. So I am in favour of a tough approach to violence against police and emergency services. I am also not too bad and too honest to say that you too, as a new minister, have already taken a number of steps to better protect the police. However, we would like to go a little further. We have therefore put forward a number of recommendations, with the aim of radically changing the rifle. This problem has been dragging on for so long that, in order to reverse the situation, we can no longer do otherwise. The so-called disadvantaged young people will not be helped with tea parties. The adaptation of clothing and/or protective equipment, however well-intentioned and necessary, will not in itself increase the fear of young criminals. We call for stricter penalties for perpetrators and a lick-on-piece policy. In committee, I also pointed out that you will have to maintain a good understanding with the Minister of Justice in this area. We also call for you to carry out your own evaluation of the law on police service, in this case Article 37, whereby we may go a little further in order to ensure that our police officers also protect themselves. In a rule of law, including in ours, there is a monopoly on violence, which can only be exercised by the police and security services. Well, it seems to me only natural that they can make the most of it if their physical integrity is compromised. You have also held an announcement policy, in which you launched a measure in the media, in particular that you are bourgeois in any case of aggression against police officers. There are some doubts about this plan and your intention. In an opinion document, I read that Mr Verbruggen, Professor of Criminal Law, states that this may lead to an extension of the investigative activities, which actually gives you the opposite of what you want. One consequence may be that perpetrators will not be tried quickly, but that all investigations will be postponed. It is not entirely clear to the police unions either. They believe that light forms of aggression or minor offences could be dealt with immediately through a form of rapid justice. They are more in favour of doing so in the case of armed rebellion, beatings or injuries or, at worst, in the case of attempted manslaughter. A final lack of clarity in the bourgeois constitution is the question of when you will call it in. Will you call them only for police officers or also for emergency services, for example, for paramedics? In Brussels last year alone, ambulances were more than 30 times the target of aggression during interventions. That's a number we can't go light about. As regards the violence against the police, Madam Secretary, I keep your promise to come to the Committee on the Interior on a regular basis to report on the state of play in its approach. I can only welcome that as chairman of the committee. The next point, Madam Minister, is the approach to radicalisation, violent extremism and terrorism. It seems to me only logical that this should appear in your note, especially in view of the many attacks already committed on European territory by Muslim fundamentalists. What surprises me is that the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry on terrorist attacks have still not been implemented. The terrorist attacks in Brussels date back to March 2016. In March 2018, the Committee of Inquiry completed its work and the recommendations were formulated. In the meantime, we are almost three years ahead and the recommendations still need to be implemented to a large extent. Mrs Ingels has already referred to it, there is a broad consensus that after 20 years the funding of local police areas should be reviewed in an objective and transparent way. The funding model can best be drawn up by experts. Everyone can support that, but I share Mrs Ingels' concern about timing. I believe 2024 is far too late. I think we need to move faster. Madam Minister, in summary, there are a lot of good incentives in your policy paper that can also support Flemish Interest. Maar the proof of the pudding is in the eating. We will therefore regularly question you about the progress of all your intentions. We would also like to call on you to name the matters as they arise. Don't use perplexed language, don't use the politically correct jargon, but focus on things, set things as they are. Focus on what we are all trying to achieve: a secure society. Thank you very much in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u34	Madam President, Mrs Ingels and Mr Depoostere, I have already thanked you in committee for the mature and constructive debate we have had there, and I want to do so here too. I have expressed the intention to launch a number of thematic debates and I will ensure that this is done effectively. After all, we can learn a lot from these debates to improve the world of security and the police. I will address a few points very briefly, because we can discuss these issues in committee at an appropriate time. As far as the management of the corona crisis is concerned, that is not just my competence. The special corona committee is still running and we need to learn lessons from that. I have already said that we are working on the pandemic law and we are trying to refer it to Parliament at the beginning of next year. We need to make the right choices in order to achieve a good legal basis, but also to be able to move quickly and remain agile at the same time. I would also like to emphasise that the Council of State does not have any questions about the legal basis we are using today for the time being. However, everything can always be better and why not think about the pandemic law. I'm gonna go over a few more points. The new technologies are very important and we can win a lot in digitalisation and the innovative use of technologies. In this way efficiency gains can be achieved, allowing the police to focus more on its core tasks. You spoke about the framework for the test gardens and there are of course pilot projects in progress, for example on tasers. Now we need to see how we can optimize those pilot projects, but at least the germs are there. We've already discussed the call centers. Of course, you also attach great importance to the organisation of the relief zones and fire brigades. We still have to catch up to be able to involve them, by analogy with the police, but that is what we are doing. For the time being, I have a lot of contacts with the networks and the volunteers, and I think we can also improve the world for them. Recently, we have seen the need for special attention to be paid to ASTRID. There was no wheel there two weekends ago, but we must ensure that this does not happen in the future. I couldn't agree more. Mr Depoostere, you also referred to the revision of funding, and you said that we need to move faster into action. Of course, we are not going to wait until 2024, but we must also be realistic, because it is a very complex exercise. There are already people who have told me that it is an impossible task, but just then one has to take the glove. It is certainly intended to start as soon as possible, but we propose realistic planning. Mrs Ingels, with regard to the additional funding, you referred to the rather uncertain procedure of the commission. That's what it is today. I cannot change that either, but let us see how we can offer certainty. I have also had discussions with all the trade unions, bilaterally and in group, and I understand very well that this is important for the trade unions and for the whole police and aid corps to make the right choices, to be able to use staff, working or investment and not have to switch ad hoc between one credit and the other. As far as the NAVAP is concerned, you have read what is planned today and what is perhaps not quite on paper today. I also understand the importance of it. It is, of course, a very large cost, so we have to see how we do it, including with regard to local authorities, but I understand that some optimizations are still possible in the NAVAP system. Now there is sometimes a somewhat improper use of the NAVAP premiums and we need to see if we can provide any compensation there. Mr Depoostere, I am addressing you now. I have no doubt you'll keep me in the loop. That's fine. However, I will try, above all, to keep myself in the loop. The recruitment of 1,600 people was in the coalition agreement. If we achieve that, we will have taken a step forward with a net increase of 400 effectives. We will do everything in our power to organise recruitment and training programmes in such a way that this increase is possible every year. The precise allocation of those effectives remains to be agreed. However, we do, of course, know the biggest deficits, to which we will, of course, also address ourselves. You have asked a number of questions about the violence, as well as about the bourgeois election. We can certainly come back to the other points later. I have also read and heard the comments of the professors concerned. Above all, it is intended to give the signal that such a thing cannot happen without impunity. This is important, not only for the police, but also for the attraction and therefore for our entire security. That is why we need to look at this when we use it. If there is actual prosecution, it is not intended to introduce additional procedural steps such as an extension of time limits, access to files and investigative actions. So we have to deal with it fairly. However, it is a way to act, if necessary. You also asked me to what extent that should not be done for the other aid and security services. I have already pointed out to you that I can do this for the members of the security corps of which I am the employer. I can only call on others to do the same, when necessary, again with the terms and conditions we have just discussed, for those who belong to the corps for which they are employers. You asked me to name things as they are. According to it, it helps to handle a parler vrai. I don't have a problem with that. If we can have a respectful and mature debate, I think it would be desirable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u35	I would like to come back to a number of points. I read in your policy paper, Madam Secretary of State, that you and the Secretary of State for the Budget, she is sitting next to you to see if the police cannot work on the basis of the envelope principle. I would like to make a very strong plea for that. I'll explain why. We certainly welcome the ambition to recruit 1,600 police officers, but that is not an easy task. In the past, there was also the ambition to make 1,400 aspirants enthusiastic for the police. But the candidates weren't always available. Indeed, people who are interested in doing these jobs must be found. If, for example, it appears in October that we are not ready for the flow of training or that we have not found enough interested people, then the appropriations entered for 1 600 new police officers were lost at the end of the year, because these are staff appropriations. However, applying the envelope principle, as a good housekeeper, one can see how far progress has been made in recruitment and, if necessary, how far the funds available for this purpose and not used up by the end of the year have been spent on the operation or small investments, such as the purchase of service cars, weapons or even toilet paper, which at some point was inadequate. That is why I would like to make a very strong appeal, including to your colleague. I have heard before that the revision of the KUL standard is an impossible task. That is said, because there is, of course, a serious cost factor. Everyone wants new criteria and a new calculation formula, but nobody wants to lose. In any case, this will cost us more than is currently the case. It is a difficult task, but not impossible, because there is still the will to do something about it. I urge you to keep us informed. That would be a good thing. I would also like to talk about violence against aid and security services. I do not speak out about how you will deal with this. For me, it is important that there is a signal that violence against aid and security services is not acceptable and that there are severe penalties. Perps need to know they can't get away with this anymore. That signal that the government finds violence against aid and security services unacceptable is also there for policemen, firefighters and paramedics. There must also be strict action against those who set up policemen, firefighters or paramedics and summon them when nothing is wrong. That's what I'm talking about. One simply has to play briefly on the ball.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u36	Madam Minister, thank you for the answer and your promise to come regularly to the committee to discuss important dossiers. However, I would like to dwell on your announcement regarding the bourgeois election. We must beware of some sort of symbolic policy of announcement. Of course, the bourgeois-party situation is an important signal that we must send, both to the police forces, the security services and the emergency services and to the perpetrators, but it must not end there. I have seen too many times in the past that the big words are not shy. Your predecessor, Minister De Crem, in popular terms also called Crembo, was a champion in that. Every time I asked about this, he repeated that there was a zero tolerance from then on in relation to violence against police and emergency services. That is, of course, punitive language, and that is brave, but if it is not followed by action, it will become an empty box. You can now, in the short term, create confidence with your announcement of becoming a bourgeois party each time, but if that announcement is not translated into action, you can lose that confidence just as quickly. In any case, I call on you not to stick to symbolic announcements and signals, but also to take action.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u37	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I would still like to pick up on the phrase 'why not think about a pandemic law'. I thought that you were a little bit harrowing back on what seemed to have been announced last week, namely that you are doing something about it. After all, that is more than 'thinking' about a pandemic law. It is very late, perhaps your wording has just been spontaneous and less clear, which is why I would like to give you the opportunity to say that we are not thinking about it anymore, but that you will be coming to the Chamber very soon. You say that things have been going well so far, but I would not wait for problems to arise. Perhaps there will be another moment when the Council of State will follow its hearing officer. We'd better avoid that. Don't ignore the countless experts who sound pretty unisono about that either. Perhaps your wording was just spontaneous and somewhat unclear, but will you think about that pandemic law or can we expect it very soon?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u38	Mr De Roover, we are not so far apart, but apparently there was some noise on the line. I have just said that we are writing this text and we will do everything in our power to submit it to Parliament in the spring. I don't know exactly what you heard, but I did say that a moment ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u39	I'm very glad you said that. It is very late, but you have literally said: why not think about the pandemic law. However, you have now clarified it; the better. I won't catch you on a sentence. I asked for clarification, and you gave them to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u40	Can we consider that the discussion of the Home Affairs and Security section for Mrs Verlinden has been concluded? [[Applause from the left]] ) We can now move on to the chapter on Asylum and Migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u41	Madam President, Secretary of State, a number of comments on your policy paper and the budget. We have spent the last few days and weeks debating each other. You started your policy statement with a video that I personally didn't find particularly serene. I couldn't really taste it personally. I understand the reasoning behind it. After all, you wanted to make it clear that international law comes from somewhere. I understand that, but that is why you need to show images of World War II and particularly painful moments in the history of our country and the Western world, I can already appreciate less. In addition, you showed a lot of images of incidents to make it clear that it is necessary that we do not end up in a situation where people seeking international protection are badly treated by the host society. I understand that, but I didn't always think the footage was appropriate or relevant. That's my personal appreciation of those images, Mr Secretary of State. I wouldn't have done this that way. You strongly advocate serenity in your discourse. I understand that after a turbulent period in Europe with regard to asylum and migration, you would like to return serenity to the debate. After all, this debate is a very sensitive debate about people fleeing and nowhere to go. The debate is about people of flesh and blood where emotion must not be excluded. At the same time, there must also be room for a piece of neutrality and objectivity. I understand that you are in favour of serenity, but I think that you have personally placed very little serenity in your communication over the past few weeks and months. I'm talking about your communication on social media and in interviews. Together with my migration team, I'll follow up on this. I think that serenity is lacking. I understand that this government must plead for serenity in the area of asylum and migration, but I do not think that you should serve that serenity yourself. I will not say that I am not criticizing your policy or that I taste everything you do. Yesterday, however, I read a post from you in response to an infographic, a visual of the Flemish Interest, by Tom Van Grieken, aligning the statistics of 2020 with which at least a lot of people could be persuaded that the number of asylum applications under 'Makke Mahdi' is increasing. That's the stamp the Flemish Interest wants to give you. I've been there myself, with "Francken Fails." I understand that you are responding to that, Mr Mahdi. I read your response to that and I thought you were right about 100 %. I thought that was a great reaction. I liked the end where you said "Makkie Mahdi isn't that easy." Keep doing that. If you think you are being treated intellectually unfairly, let it go, which fits in with the parliamentary debate. You say you'll fight fake news. That is very good and I will give you my support. If you think I'm treating you in an intellectually incorrect manner, I'd like to hear it, too. I don't have a problem with that. I've been on the migration file for too long. If you say that the debate on migration can be conducted sharply, that the course to be followed is not always the same, but that one must remain honest, then I have no problem with that. I believe that you should correct the Flemish interest if things are not correctly represented. Personally, I think you have not served serenity sufficiently. It is clear that you have that ambition, but the communication of the last few months was not serene. I don't know if it'll improve in the next few months. I hope so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u42	Mr Francken, we are supposed to be discussing the budget for Asylum and Migration, among other things, this evening. Lessons about serenity and such more we may be able to save or keep a bit shorter for another time. I do not believe that we have a great deal of message about what you may or may not find correct communication on Twitter. That's not within the scope of this evening.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u43	Few debates are as sensitive as the asylum and migration debate. If this government is advocating serenity as some sort of main message in the future asylum and migration debate, then I think I can give my opinion on that. We are having a plenary debate on the budget and everything can be said in it, there are no speaking restrictions. So I can use my freedom or speech here to give my opinion on that. I didn't think that was the best visual of the Flemish interest and I follow that very well. You may not like me saying that, but I loved the Secretary of State's reaction. I hope he keeps doing this in the future. I would like to say a few things about the policy paper and the budget. Mr Mahdi, you know that I have tabled a number of amendments to the budget and you have undoubtedly read them. I would like to discuss five points here. Firstly, there is asylum, one of the major access channels to Belgium. Your greatest ambition is to ensure that the delays are eliminated and that procedures are reduced. I have a question on this which I have also formulated in a letter which I will deliver to your cabinet in the near future. It would be very useful if we were to have a zero measurement. How long will asylum procedures take at the moment? I believe you have two major disadvantages. I have looked at the asylum figures of November and I have seen that only 29% of those seeking asylum in this country are recognised. That figure is very low, which is a disadvantage to your ambition to shorten procedures because the number of people in appeal is higher as the recognition rate is lower. Moreover, these appeal procedures take an enormous amount of time. If 10,000 Syrians come knocking at our asylum gates tomorrow, then ironically, as Secretary of State, they can make a very quick profit. By the way, I did that myself, along with Jan Jambon. However, if there are 10,000 Albanians knocking on the door tomorrow that no one is recognised for, then you have serious problems because they all appeal. My question is very specific. In the next few weeks, can the government make a zero assessment of the lead time of an asylum procedure at the moment, including appeal procedures? It is very interesting to do that measurement to evaluate your policy over the coming years. I hope that the asylum procedures will take less time, but there are two things that are playing hugely against you. Firstly, the fact that asylum applications are increasing and the workload is increasing, resulting in delays. The number of decisions of the CGVS does not really increase due to corona interviews. You've been given a hugely ambiguous and difficult judgment by the Council of State about those digital interviews. That doesn't benefit you, because how is that coronaproof going to be organized? I assume you've already thought about that with your cabinet. Secondly, the fact that there are a lot of people who are not receiving international protection at all. They're appealing massively. I take my statistics from when I was Secretary of State: 90% of people who do not get recognition are appealing anyway. An appeal procedure lasts between six months and one year. I hope that you are realising your ambition, but I fear it is because there are serious things that are going on against you that you cannot do anything about. I do not blame you either, but these are matters with which you will have serious problems in practice. The second largest canal, after asylum, is the canal of family reunification. The coalition agreement states that a law is to be made that brings family reunification to the level of our neighbouring countries. Very interesting. You gave an interview in the Latest News. You say: 'The N-VA calls me the mini-Merkel and I think that is an incredible compliment'. I didn't call you that. You've recovered that politics so much, that's smart. Your Twitter account says that you are the Barack Obama of the Aldi. You also say you're some kind of mini-Merkel. In the area of family reunification, Germany has been greatly intertwined. Their law on family reunification is now the strictest legislation in Europe. Your coalition agreement doesn't really say anything about that. I questioned you about this at the committee meeting following your policy statement, Mr Mahdi. You've never really lifted a tip from the veil. You said you'd discuss this within the government. In every interview, you say you will discuss it within the government. After all, it would be very foolish to say that to a journalist. It would be very foolish to say that to Mr Francken or Mr Van Langenhove or to anyone who will intervene here. My very specific question is: do you have any idea exactly what you want to do in relation to family reunification? We have tabled a number of legislative proposals. Could they inspire you? We believe it is necessary. If you are the mini-Merkel, including in the area of family reunification, you may, for my part, literally adopt the legislation of Germany, which is: quotas every month, for asylum and family reunification, and d'office no longer family reunification under subsidiary protection. That would be fantastic. My question is, if you want to be the mini-Merkel, is this not only for a welcome policy with the grandeur that Mrs Merkel has, but also for the tightening of legislation in Belgium? That is a very specific question. Can you answer that? The third migration channel, Mr Secretary of State, concerns regularisation. You are quite clear about this: you will not organise collective regularisation; that will not happen under your mandate. You said quite clearly that you will apply Article 9a and Article 9b. I wish you every success in that. I did, too. When I started as a Member of Parliament, I was totally against regularization. I thought it was totally unnecessary. But over the years, I've softened it because there are certain migratory situations, of people who have been here for so many years, who, in my opinion, can only be solved by giving them a residence permit. I am very pleased that Ecolo, Green and the PS are abandoning their idea that the criteria for this should be laid down in the law. I am very pleased that this government chooses to remain discretionary in your hands. I wish you every success in that. Those are very difficult considerations. I read the latest interview in which you say, "Migration gives me calluses on my soul." You've only been working for two months. I can tell you that if you do that for five years, you will still have a lot of files to decide on in person. These are extremely difficult and tedious dossiers, of which you will sometimes lie awake and wonder if you have made the right decision. I wish you every success, good courage and perseverance, and hopefully a clear line. I come to Article 9 on humanitarian visas. This is the article about which I, at least, stumbled. The government agreement states that humanitarian visas are being subject to objectification. Every year, this will be communicated to the Court in a transparent manner. I don't know if you're going to issue any more humanitarian visas. Possibly. Possibly not. If you do, I don't think that's a disgrace at all. I fully support the policy we pursued at the time on humanitarian visas for a number of Christians from the Middle East. Mr Kucam has not yet been convicted, but the opportunity seems to me to be particularly great. This is a very big scratch on my work on Migration. I'd have preferred it different. We've worked with a lot of intermediaries. He was referred to as the intermediary for the Assyrian church community in Mechelen and was a party partner. Did you let me trust him? Did I make a mistake and have I been naive? Possibly. If the facts he's accused of are true, I hope he's severely punished. I've struggled very much with this event. I didn't see that coming, he seemed like a bona fide person acting on behalf of that church community in Mechelen. There's a good chance he was convicted and wasn't bona fide. However, I remain convinced that a number of humanitarian visas should be issued. I spoke to my colleague Mr Metsu today. He is mayor in Edegem and has just returned from Kurdistan, where he has recently stayed together with Mr Dallemagne, Mrs De Pauw of Child Focus and a number of people from V-Europe who represent the victims of terrorism in Belgium. Mr Geens, who was a fantastic minister, has done a lot for these people. Koen Metsu called me and said that he very much wanted us to issue 50 humanitarian visas to some Kurdish soldiers who were extremely hurt. Why couldn't they be helped against their own payment at the military hospital in Lower Over Heembeek? Why wouldn't we give those visas, he asked me. He said don't say you don't want to. I replied to Mr Koen that I would no longer speak on humanitarian visas. I'm not gonna touch that. It's kind of a nuclear area for me. I'll stay away from that. That's Chernobyl. He opposed that this might be very difficult politically for me to defend, but that is not really correct. That question will now come to you, Mr Secretary of State. In the coming days, a letter will come from a number of organisations asking if it is possible to issue those visas. I told him that humanitarian visas - Article 9 - are certainly not an option, but perhaps they are tourist visas. We have done so: Didier Reynders repatriated fifty soldiers from Erbil to have them taken care of in Belgium. In the area of residence permits, that was a total chaos and some of them did not return, but that was something at the time with Foreign Affairs, which I did not really have much to do with. It's been five years. That question comes back now and then we have to consider whether humanitarian visas are totally excluded or whether they are possible under certain conditions. The Kurds are my friends. I feel like a political son of Willy Kuijpers and as a nationalist I will always support the Kurds. That is a very difficult issue, but I understand, Mr Secretary of State, that you will be presenting a transparent and objective report to the Chamber and that we will be able to see who you are granting humanitarian visas to and to whom you are not. The fourth migration channel concerns labour migration. In this respect, I will fully support your policy. I announced that, too. You have submitted the first transposition of the directive and the transposition of the student directive is also on the way. That has been delayed a lot, which has to do with former Minister De Block and with me. That was extremely difficult, because turn these directives into Belgian legislation: really, the foreign law is so complex with us, so that takes time. The DVZ's study department is not overstaffed. You're getting a lot of extra money, so I hope there's some good technical lawyers coming in to speed things up. However, this brings you to Parliament. In any case, it is particularly interesting that the current government is committed to more active migration. Yesterday we had a great and finally intellectually breathtaking debate with Mr Wunsch on the report by the National Bank of Belgium on the economic impact of migration in Belgium. Finally, that's what's come. I was called a racist, Nazi and Fascist by Mrs. Onkelinx five years ago, when I was just Secretary of State. One of Mrs Onkelinx's sources of inspiration was an old Facebook post that I had written in 2008 and was inspired by a front-page article by The Economist, an international magazine that you undoubtedly know. The article was about the economic impact of different diaspora. Studies on the economic impact and added value of the Jewish diaspora, Indian diaspora, Mexican diaspora and so on were made in the States and in the United Kingdom. My sister in the States, who doesn't seem very discriminatoryly inspired to me, and my brother-in-law sent me that link and reminded me that it was a very interesting article that I really had to read. I post that article on Facebook in 2008. I wasn't even a member of parliament, I was just an employee of Geert Bourgeois' cabinet. I would like to add that it is extremely interesting and whether we in Belgium would not even study the economic impact of our diaspora in our country. What is the economic added value of Indian diaspora in, for example, the Antwerp diamond world, the Jewish diaspora, including Antwerp, but also the Congolese, Moroccan and Algerian diaspora? I had to go through the dust for that. Mrs Verlinden, I have to apologize here on the bench where you are sitting, or Mr Michel wouldn't let me be a member of the government anymore. I've been at it for three days. I spent all night wrestling with that. After all, I found that very unjust and intellectually unlikely to be unfair. What do we see 12 years later? Yesterday we held a debate in the Committee on the Interior, on the basis of a report by the National Bank of Belgium, on the economic impact of diasporas. Fantastic! I had to apologize for that at the time, but yesterday we had that debate. The taboo on the economic added value of migration has finally broken. We can finally have that debate in a mature and intellectually correct way in this Chamber. I think that's fantastic. I think that is an enormous added value. I hope that over the coming months and years we will be able to look at the migration story that the N-VA wants to write, hopefully together with a number of colleagues in this Chamber. My sixth point concerns the return. I have interviewed Minister Michel, who is also here, about the return centres, in relation to the domain of Buildings Control. The government has made certain announcements, that there will be return centres, that the return of illegal immigrants will be better organised and that capacity will be added. There will indeed be capacity in the short term. Wing 1 in Merksplas opens. However, there are two major projects that I have launched myself, namely Zandvliet and Jumet, Antwerp and Charleroi, to create additional capacity. I understand very well from Mr Michel, the Secretary of State for the Government of the Buildings, that this is not going to happen in this legislature. I understand from Mr Mahdi's reaction that it is necessary to look again at whether this is actually the case, whether this timing cannot be shortened and whether it can be opened earlier. I would also like to clarify that point. Can we clear that up for a second? Is it possible to open these centres earlier? What is the actual timing? That seems particularly interesting to me. Mr Secretary of State, one final point concerns the 2021 budget. You have an additional 50 million for migration policy. That $50 million hasn't been distributed yet. You said you were trying to get that done by the end of the year. We're almost at the end of the year now. It is the last session on which we can have an exchange of views. Have you already made that decision? How much more money is going to go to the reinforcement of DVZ's services? How much of the 50 million will go to strengthening entry and residence? How many will go to the reinforcement of return? On these two services, the DVZ absolutely needs more staff. Was that decision made within the government, within your cabinet? How much money and staff are coming in? If no decision has been made, when has it been made? Can you inform the Court of Justice of that decision? You have a lot of contact with the services. I am also very glad that I still have a lot of contact with a number of people in the administration who are also telling me that reinforcement is really urgently needed. Has that decision been made yet? Can you explain this? I have tabled four amendments. I have tabled an amendment to reduce the budget for Fedasil. It is better to start with a lower budget instead of a budget as big as it is now. EUR 427 million is far too much at the beginning of the year. It is better to start lower and ask for money later than there is already such a large budget. The second amendment concerns the return budget. You say that Frontex is paying more and more and that the budget is no longer needed. It's a matter of politics. We do want this budget to remain at EUR 10 million. We do want this to be firmly anchored in the budget. We want return to be a real ambition of this government, also translated budgetally. A third amendment is an amendment to Mr Michel's budget. We want the closed centres of return to be effectively implemented in this legislature. That budget must be prepared and released. We compensate for this by other measures. We are not asking for any extra money for the Belgian budget. We specifically ask for money so that the closed centres can be realized by the Government of the Buildings. These are our amendments to the 2021 annual budget for migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u44	Madam President, I shall not repeat the debate in committee. The hour is already advanced. A striking fact from the federal budget for 2021 is, among other things, the explosion of the budget for the reception of asylum seekers. This increases to the staggering amount of EUR 427 million. This shows that the government seems to be assuming a further increase in the number of asylum applications. Of course, that is not wrong, because the day before yesterday there were figures showing that asylum applications are rising for the seventh month in a row. Since last month it has even been an increase of as much as 16%. The government's expectation and even welcomes a further increase in asylum rates is also reflected in the planned implementation of buffer capacity in the reception of asylum seekers. Don't worry, I won't fire a barrage of questions here, there are still a lot of questions pending in the committee to which the answer will be given, but unfortunately not until next month. That is also what the committee is for. I would like to ask you one more thing, Mr Mahdi. Do you not think it is contradictory that, following a consultation with the Spanish Ambassador, you are pleased that there will be no permanent reception structure in the Canary Islands, because this will only create an attraction, while at the same time extending the reception structure for asylum seekers in Belgium? Do you really not see that this in itself also creates a suction effect? There is really no way of getting back to what should be the essence of asylum and migration policy in this country, and that is stopping mass immigration. An incentive to stop or at least reduce this mass immigration, as the citizens of this country ask, even beg, was not reflected in the coalition agreement, it was not reflected in your policy statement and, unfortunately, it is not expected to be reflected in your budget either. The warning of the Flemish interest that this government would open its borders even further than the previous governments is now correct. It is even worse than most people realize, because in addition to further facilitating the influx, this government makes the outflow even more difficult. Not only by making illegal entry impossible, but also by banning the detention of illegal families with children and by your promised return centres, which now show that they are not going to be there at all, but also by underfunding forced return. There would be extra money through the interdepartmental commission, but it remains to be seen whether these funds will go mainly to projects for voluntary return and alternatives to detention, which, of course, we have known for a long time that they do not actually work in reality. I have also discussed this in detail in my presentation to the policy statement, about the fairy tales of these Dutch pilot projects, where we are going to look for solutions for illegal immigrants, as you too want to do. There, too, you were put in the bag by your green and red friends of the Vivaldic coalition. It was in Dutch newspapers two weeks ago: an Amsterdam pilot project to guide illegal immigrants towards voluntary return. That fairy tale cost 3.3 million euros. Guess how many illegals have returned from that, Mr Mahdi? A person has returned and that cost Dutch taxpayers a sloppy EUR 3.3 million. Yet they are such fairy tales with which you are still shielding. After the months of fake news about the closed return centers, we now have to do with the fairy tale you are about to do with voluntary return. Let us be honest, Mr Mahdi. No one believes in those fairy tales. Everyone here on the right is aware that you are not going to bring about a further return, and therefore strongly opposes your policy plans. Everyone on the left also knows you're not going to send any more illegals back. That's why they don't oppose your policy plans. Colleagues, it's 3:30 in the morning. I'm rounding up. Illegality is costing our country massive amounts of money. Investing in the forced return of illegal migrants would therefore be very quick to pay back and in the long term even provide a lot of money for our state treasury. To sum up, it's very simple. What we need to do is to reduce the influx of migrants and increase the outflow of migrants. What you are doing is the opposite, Mr Mahdi: increasing the influx of migrants and reducing the outflow. However, we are facing an economic crisis which is unprecedented: bankruptcies, unemployment, social tragedies. More than ever, we need our money to help our own people. Yet this government chooses to spend hundreds of millions more on newcomers who have no business here in our country. You have three more years to take responsibility, Mr Mahdi. In 2024, we'll take over. Protect our social security. Protect our people. Stop mass migration and expel anyone who is illegally in our country from the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u45	Allow me, gentlemen, to begin by thanking you both. That sounds weird, but I'm serious. I do not know if it has anything to do with the time we are having the debate, but the way you have opposed it, each in its own way, each with its own language, is what I had expected and hoped for from day one. I've always said I have no problem with the opposition. I have also always made it clear that I would listen to the well-founded criticism from the opposition, but just as you look at my Facebook posts, Mr Francken, I also look at yours. I'm also looking at your Twitter pages. I have to observe every day that the sharpness, which you are not showing today, is a thousandfold on the social media. I have to read the reactions of the people who follow you on social media every day. For the sake of clarity, Mr Francken, I also see that you occasionally point out to your own followers and make it clear that I should not return to a country where I do not come from. You do that every once in a while. As far as I'm concerned, it should be more frequent. I read that I would import my own kind of livestock. I read that I'm a Muslim dog and so on. It happens every day. I do hope that a certain responsibility will be taken. I can only hope that in the coming years it will be every minute at 3.36 a.m., because this is the way of opposing that I expect. We can differ on matters. We can even take a different tone in the debate. That is not a problem, but I can only ask you both to follow this evening's example over the next few years. As far as the tone is concerned, we may not have to talk about the policy statement all over again, but the debate has been discussed and I am therefore very happy to deal with it. Yeah, I launched a video. I referred to international law, because I think that, while criticising international law from certain points of view, a number of parties would even want to throw international law completely into the wastebasket, many parties in favour of that same international law, far too little explain why it is. When I refer to World War II, I do nothing but what Hannah Arendt has done throughout her life. She fled during World War II, as a Jewish. During her entire life, she made a comparison between the fate of the Jewish community during World War II and the fate of many migrants, who were subsequently followed. I did. Whether you like it or not, we can differ on that, but that had its reasons. Have I used images that have made it clear what asylum policy and reception policy have looked like in recent years? Did anyone see that it wasn't good? Yes. Were those the right footage? We can differ on that. I wanted to make it clear that the yo-yo policy of recent years has literally set the asylum policy and its support on fire. We need to do something about that. Again, correct images or not, we may differ on that. I have said a few times that I am looking for serenity in the debate, but I am even more looking for honesty. Mr Francken, if on the same social media, also on your Facebook page, there are videos of single men joining the Little Castle, then I think you know better. You yourself have been Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration and you have knowledge of the department. So you also know that the first people to enter the Little Castle are families, women and children. So if someone is going to film at 9:30 or 10:00, it's simple and only single men are seen. However, you know both Fedasil's website, you see the figures there and the reality is not that these are just single men. Do I have to beg to give you the right figures and the right context? I can only do that again here. What will we do about the long duration of asylum applications? We have made it very clear that we will invest, there will be structural funds, up to EUR 100 million by 2024. Firstly, we are providing sufficient staff to prevent delays in the handling of files, which has been too frequent in recent years. The comment on appeal procedures was justified. Many asylum seekers go from appeal to appeal. Moreover, there has been a migration code for more than eight years, which everyone is looking forward to. I can only say that I am working on this every day, there is someone specifically appointed to my cabinet. I can only hope that, thanks to a migration code, we will be able to reduce the number of procedures. It is no good for anyone that asylum seekers should sue 8, 9 or 10 times and live in uncertainty for a long time. We are doing a number of other things to reduce the time limit for asylum applications. For example, there is a text before the government this week on the introduction of the written procedure. That too should speed up a number of things. We will investigate how we can resolve the problem of digital interrogations in the long term. The first decision has been taken, the final decision is a little later, but politics may also be able to find the necessary answers. Mahdi doesn't say anything about family reunification, that's what it says here. Mr Francken, you were a member of the government not so long ago, and you know what reign is. You know it means to sit with parties that adhere to a different ideology. You know how difficult it is sometimes to find a compromise. It's called being pragmatic. If CD&V'ers try to look up the nuance and be pragmatic, then sometimes there is a bit of a laughing matter about that, but that is the reality. We do not live in China where there is only one party. Some of us might prefer it, and we should look for cooperation with other parties today. So one has to negotiate, understand one another, know the sensitivities of the other parties, deal with them and offer an answer, which more than 50% of Parliament wants to support. Doesn't Mr. Mahdi say anything? No, Mr Mahdi says that we are working on a solution in the area of family reunification. If in 2024 or 2025 I do not want to complain that I was not being listened to, then speaking with my colleagues and seeing with them how we can improve things is the least I can do. How should we deal with regularizations? Mr Francken, you have done something about this. In any case, it is to your credit that you clarify that you have done so very often. Humanitarian visas remain discretionary. It is good that you take responsibility for mistakes that have been made in this area and that you admit that you should have handled things differently. I don't want to be the calimero here, but what would it have been like if someone from a left-wing party made human mistakes? There were questions about return policy, in particular the opening of closed centres. Mr Francken, you know how difficult things are. When you were a member of the government, you announced that you would open the centre in Zandvliet in 2020. That didn't work. However, there was a compromise in the government on this; so it could have been. The center in Jumet would open in 2021. So, when I monitor the timing and regularly consult with Mr Michel to see how we can speed up the procedures, that is precisely to avoid a failure in this area. I am sincere once again - that you are a voluntarian and want to see things done against a certain year. Unfortunately, politics is often too slow and I can only hope that we can move faster now. Fedasil's budget is rising and, Mr Francken and Mr Van Langenhove, you know why. I've seen very creative visuals in that connection. If we save on staff and there is not enough staff to deal with asylum applications, it is not rock science that asylum applications remain, asylum seekers stay longer in reception centres and it comes to a reception crisis. Investment in personnel has to solve that. So when you say that Mahdi suddenly invests extra in Fedasil and shelters, that's true, but you also know why and it would be useful, should you say so. This has to do with the fact that asylum applications could not be dealt with, because there was too little investment in staff. Mr Van Langenhove, you complained that there are no permanent structures in Gran Canaria. I thought that was a strange equation. The intermediate station in Gran Canaria does not strike me as the same as a reception centre in Belgium, where asylum is applied for in the regular circuit. I hear you now saying that asylum seekers continue to flow. But I didn't hear you say how you were on the other side. You should have done that. You wanted to limit your speech to the budget, and that is a credit to you, but I would have liked to know in which world the Flemish Interest lives. The party is going for a full migration stop, but how do you reconcile that with international and European law? I don't know. Are we still part of the European Union? I don't know. Are we closing all borders? You may tell me, you of the party called Flemish Interest, which serves the Flemish interests. So the party that believes, I think, that the Flemish economy must continue to run, a Flemish economy that is largely dependent on trade. Closing the borders? I don't know. I can only assume, because I haven't heard it yet. I want to be clear about the Dutch pilot projects. Not every Dutch pilot project is a good project. I will not just take over every Dutch project on voluntary return in Belgium. The purpose of a pilot project is precisely to determine whether something is working or not, and then to apply it structurally. An evaluation would indeed be useful; even more so, we would ourselves be piloting projects on voluntary return, you do not have to believe in it, but the reality is that it can be worked out, so that foreigners can return to the country of origin sustainably, working with them as well. Voluntary return has always been part of the return policy, both under the previous government and before. You can make all kinds of gestures and it's fake news if you say they'd get a blank check. They don't get it. However, their plane ticket will be refunded, just like the first costs they incur on arrival, on presentation to AOM of the receipts. They don't get money. Don't say things like that if they're not true. You were satisfied with the website that should fight fake news; I am pleased about that. I only hope that this will allow us to use this information, which is sometimes distributed through your social media. You're also claiming that I made them impossible. She wasn't possible today and wasn't possible yesterday. Mr Francken can talk about it. It's not easy to enter a home. A solution must also be sought for this. I have often heard the question of what I will do. This question has also been given to the Member of Parliament who is standing next to you. The answer isn't easy. Here too, we must work together with majority parties and seek a compromise. How can we do that? I don't care about the word in itself. Reality is literally written down in the coalition agreement, namely that a solution must be found for those who refuse to cooperate in their return. We are now trying to find that solution. I can yell very loudly, too. However, to this day, nothing has been resolved. For the rest, I have received no questions other than those relating to the budget. Excuse me, there was one more question, namely the amount of EUR 50 million, which will be added. This amount will be a priority for shorter procedures and for return policy. However, in what way exactly will this happen, the next few weeks will be discussed at government level and, of course, with the services involved in that process. We should be landing in January 2020. I'll finish with you again. We'd like to debate all three of them and sincerely thank you for the way you both reacted. I really mean that. I can only beg one last time to think about the impact of certain communication techniques on social media. After all, some people judge its impact and therefore do not think it is so bad. Others, however, do not always judge that impact correctly. I'm just trying to warn you, to avoid worse.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u46	Mr Secretary of State, you have probably been given the most difficult department. I wish you every success, and that is genuinely true. Just as you sincerely believe that I will oppose in an intellectually correct way, I believe equally sincerely and deeply from the heart that you are going to run that department well. It's improbably hard. I don't think any department is as difficult to run as the Department of Asylum and Migration. I would like to say one more thing, Mr Secretary of State. We have talked a long time about social media, a channel through which many people can be reached quickly. If people react in a racist way and say that you must return to your country, that you are a Muslim who does not prefer to bring Muslims into Belgium, then I will always be the first to protest against it. I will make it very clear to them that I don't take that on my social media, not in individual conversations on the market I have less because of corona............................................................................................................................................................................................ I go around with "Theo tour" in Flanders, but in no parish hall in Flanders I will take that. I don't think that you're a son of a refugee from Iraq is relevant at all. I don't really care about that at all. I had a debate here last night where I was labeled a sexist because I asked the Minister a question. What an unlikely intellectual poverty! What a parliamentary sadness!. So I will never do anything like that, nor will I ever do anything like that with you. On the contrary, I am revolting against people treating you as a bad Secretary of State, as a bad politician, because you are the son of someone from Iraq. I just think that's absurd. I can't stand that. It pisses me off. It pisses me off. It pisses me off. I always will. Let me draw that line very clearly. If you have any indications that would prove otherwise, I would very much like to give you my phone number. Call me, send me a message, or just tell me. I'm always gonna argue with that, because it makes me mad. Flanders against racism! I don't take that, not from my own supporters, not from people who are close to me, not from people who are far from me. I'm rebelling against that, and I will always do that. However, I personally believe that you are in a position, in a policy and paradigm, which I do not believe will bring any long-term structural solution. You are still in the paradigm of an asylum application after an illegal transit or trip to Europe. We have to stop doing that. The first thing Mrs Priti Patel, a fantastic Conservative and Home Affairs Minister in the UK, will do after the Brexit, is introduce the Australian model. That is what we need in Europe. I'll keep trying to convince you of that. I have seen that you have sent a letter on my resolution and on Article 31 of the Geneva Convention, but according to my lawyers, the interpretation of your lawyers is not entirely correct. We will discuss this later. We can debate this for hours. I won't bore you with that. I must tell you that we can agree on many things in substance, including Mr Michel, with whom I had a very pleasant conversation. I believe that he was unjustly framed and tackled in the first hours of his term of office. He was probably nervous, because I thought he spoke Dutch very well. That's how it happens. You're always caught up in your words. You're gonna see it. It's crazy. However, I think you really mean it. I also think CD&V is trying to write a story. By the way, I've read your chairman's Christmas manifesto. It's very interesting. I also feel a bit inspired by that new ideological story. You were also working on this as a youth president and as a candidate for President. In that sense, I find it interesting, but my basic criticism remains that you are in a model or paradigm that I do not think can work. You had an EU Council yesterday. I read the report this morning on Politico. I personally took an intellectual distance from that model. I don't believe in that anymore. You know that. I gave you my two books. I hope you can read it sometime, if you find the time, maybe on Christmas holidays. I personally no longer believe that this model can work, even though I believe that we should open our hearts to refugees. We are the richest continent in the world. We have to do our part, too. That is a question of solidarity and humanity, but I no longer believe in a model in which there are people who are drowning, a model with a huge smuggling business and a model that brings all the misery to the islands and Member States on the southern border of the European Union. I don't believe in that anymore, but we can discuss that in the next few weeks and months. I will write a letter to you, Mr Secretary of State, asking that, when the decision on the allocation of the EUR 50 million has been taken, it be communicated to the Chamber. I hope it will then be communicated. Tomorrow we will table our amendments and ask for the vote of our amendments, as we would like to see in the case of the Belgian State budget 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u47	Madam President, Mr Mahdi and also Mr Francken, you like to wave that moral touch about serenity. I'd like to call on both of you to take a look in the mirror myself. What you have done in the migration debate over the last few weeks is not very serene with the gratuite reproaches to other politicians. Perhaps you should think about that, instead of preaching yet another old lesson here. We recruited Secretary Vandenbroucke for those sermons. You guys really shouldn't add that. Those moral lessons, Mr Francken, you often worry about them yourself, but you also like to participate in them in detail, even at this late hour. Mr Mahdi, you say that you are not so sharp now, but you are on social media. Perhaps you did not listen very carefully to my speech just now and to the many statements I made in plenary and perhaps also tomorrow. They're pretty sharp, I guess. I never hold back, that's kind of my trademark. In fact, I think I have enough human knowledge and self-knowledge to say that I am milder on social media than here in the Half-Round. Maybe compare the two of them. I'm pretty sharp here. If you want to put up that frame that I would be very vicious here and on social media or call people to say one thing or another to you, that is incorrect. You may have written that point down in advance, but it doesn't make sense if you look at what I said here today. Nor does it make sense for you to build up a stream of reasoning here: "Look what is being said to me!" I am not even going to repeat the words, Mr Mahdi. I find them as reprehensible as you, but I have nothing to do with them and neither does Mr Francken. I would advise you to dismiss that victimism, Mr Mahdi. You are a relatively young person with a certain migration background, but you are Secretary of State, a very beautiful position. You're making it in life. You've been given a lot of responsibility. That victim role you're taking on, just stop it. It's not your fault at all. It's not really about the budget. I am sorry that you did not stick to the budget yourself. Mr Francken has made it a sport not to stick to the subject, but not to you tonight either. Just stop it. I could only hope, Mr Mahdi, that it would have stayed with me in recent years, but it is not. I can tell you that, and I won't waste any more words on it. You have given me relatively often in committee. I have seen you nod a number of times and heard you say that I made a point with which you agree, but then you thank us for the way in which we oppose, as if we were ridiculing ourselves here and saying all kinds of things that do not make sense. I think that's a weird way of doing things. Once again, the box must be ticked off, the Holocaust is involved. I think it is a little superfluous that it is dragged in every time and I find it not very respectful for those people, but that is your choice. There were two more points which, unlike the previous ones, were substantive. First of all, you spoke of countries that are stopping migration. That's a lot of countries around the world. Let us also talk a little more serenity about this. Does the Flemish interest mean by a migration stop that we want to close the border hermetically and that no one is allowed outside or inside, that a wall must be built from here to the sky? No, we do not mean that, and we have already had to explain this to you and your supporters. We mean that we will finally stop illegal migration, that mass migration will be stopped and that we will come to a quasi-migration stop through a wide package, Mr Francken. If all measures are taken together, there will be an effect similar to a halt in mass migration. That is where we want to go, and that is what many countries are doing. Even countries in the European Union actually have a policy that amounts to a certain migration stop. If I follow you, that means that the borders of those countries are sealed and those countries no longer trade internationally. Let us remain a little serious in this debate and show a little serenity. These countries trade like all other countries, and they follow international law like all other countries. However, they do decide that they put their people first, that they put their sovereignty first and not mass migration or international organisations. When it comes to migration policy, follow your own words and be more serene about it. Finally, you have made so many empty promises over the past few months, including those about residences. You said you'd find a solution in the government. Mr Mahdi, don't be naive, you won't find a solution with green and red, that's for sure, but you won't even find a solution with the MR, because even that party, the least left-wing Walloon party in this hemisphere, doesn't want to know about residents in illegality. I wish you every success in seeking that solution, but we are not naive; that solution will, unfortunately, not come to this legislature. This is actually what it says in the communication about the government statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u48	Mr Van Langenhove, you say that I should listen to you. I always listen to you very carefully. I find that particularly interesting. I always listen to the Flemish interest during migration debates, which I find particularly relevant and interesting. By the way, I listen to the Flemish interest in all the debates. I am not the one who puts the Flemish Interest away as a collection of illiterates who cannot read the alphabet. I'm not. I'm listening very carefully. I do that to learn from it. Playing populism has many facets and keys. It's always interesting to know how you handle it. Listening to and watching radical right in Europe is always interesting for a democrat. You say here that a number of countries in the European Union have introduced a migration stop or a quasi-migration stop. You say that a number of countries have de facto done so. I assume you are referring to Hungary and Poland. That's obviously wrong. In my opinion, there is no country within the European Union that has adopted more stringent migration legislation than European law is possible under European directives. However, migration rates and immigration rates in countries in Eastern Europe are much lower than in Western Europe. The main reasons for this are, firstly, our labour market, secondly, the fact that we already have different diaspora on our territory and, thirdly, the fact that we have very strong and potentially interesting social security. This is evident from every international study. Each individual interview at the CGVS shows this. Why Belgium or Germany? Why not Austria, Hungary or Poland? These are the major determining factors in intra-European migration. Then the debate can be held on the need to work on these three themes. On the one hand, social security must be made more for our own people, that is the discourse of the Flemish Interest. Just so we're clear, I'm gonna go along with that. Our own social security is much more protected with the Flemish Government, which is finally involved, under the leadership of Mr Jambon and also Mr Beke. There is nothing wrong with that, within the range of European case law. On the other hand, work should also be carried out on the labour market. The National Bank says this in its study. The integration of migrants into the labour market should be improved in this country. Germany does that much better than we do. Finally, there is also the fact that we have very different diaspora here. The Flemish interest has always resisted this for thirty years. They always said that mass migration is failing and that it will fail and should not be organised in that way. That would lead to chaos and great problems in our cities. Flemish interest was always the canary in the coal mine in terms of salafism and mass migration. I have no problem recognizing that. That's just a fact. In that sense, I can make that analysis intellectual. But these people are here. We must look to the future and try to deal with things on the basis of the current situation in our country, in Flanders, in our cities. You can say you never wanted that. It may be, but it's a fact now. The situation cannot be reversed. Many people ask me why we are not going to the Hungarian model, because there are no migrants coming in. Nobody wants to go to Hungary. Everyone travels to Western Europe. No one wants to stay in Hungary. There is no job, there is no social protection and there are no friends and no family.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u49	Madam President, a very brief response to Secretary of State Francken's policy statement. If you say that you always listen with great attention to the Flemish interest, I am surprised that you have not understood the migration stop time and time again. Even the part for which I would like your attention, to finally listen carefully to what the migration stop means, even that you have not understood once again. That migration stop is a combination of various measures that will finally stop illegal mass migration. That's what we want to work towards. Do we want to establish hermetic boundaries and not allow anyone else to, do we want to ensure that those who fall in love with someone abroad cannot take that man or woman with us? No, we never said that. So stop pulling that crazy. Stop saying that we are saying ridiculous things about the migration summit. Stop asking when we're going to file the bill for that migration stop? That's just bullshit!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u50	Mr Secretary of State, would you like to respond? We can move on to the next package on administrative matters and the civil service.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u51	Madam President, Madam Minister, I can begin by reassuring you. I have had enough time to rewrite my statement and make it brief. We do not fundamentally disagree with the content of and the emphasis in your policy paper. I have already mentioned this in committee. With employee branding you wish to consider the official's career as more dynamic. You are quite right to put this forward because the unjustly negative image of the official needs to be removed and enhanced. Our officials are our ambassadors, our contact with the outside world. It is important to show that the federal government is not only the largest employer, but that it can also profile itself as an attractive employer. A job at the government should offer great opportunities. Through your note we find a red line and that is diversity. Our civil service must, as it were, reflect the diverse society in which we live and live today. If this would not result in the imposition of all kinds of quotas to achieve this, I fully follow your reasoning. The promotion of diversity can of course be promoted and promoted at any time. However, we must take into account a small detail and keep this in mind, namely that this reflection should not only be expressed in terms of colour, origin or gender. That is why I am missing something important in your note, namely the desire for a representative relationship between Dutch and French speakers. We know that it has been quite distorted in the official body, especially here in Brussels. You know the numbers. A proportional representation of the officials from both language areas in the FPS is one thing, their bilingual competences, on the other hand, is something completely different. We consider this to be very important in order to ensure that this is done. You also know that functional bilingualism is at the root of a good, qualitative service in our country. As a government, we must encourage and monitor this at all times. I am very sorry that you did not mention this in your policy statement or note. Language also turns out to be a disgusting point for executives. My group believes that executives and managers in the federal government should always have sufficient control over the other national language. It is very simple: officials who have to direct or evaluate other officials should always have a good vocabulary of the other national language. Anyone who evaluates or directs others can only do so if the evaluated person can speak his own language. This absolute minimum requirement came at the initiative of your predecessor. Our recommendation, to work on the implementation of the Royal Decree of 2017 and to oblige both senior officials and ministers to comply with functional bilingualism, seemed to you to take to heart in the committee, for which I thank you. I hope so. The current government should commit itself to strictly monitoring the correct application of the language criteria and should press for action where necessary. I hope that you will endorse and develop the initiatives that have already been taken. Unfortunately, however, your coalition partners voted against our recommendations, although you had clearly stated in committee that you would include them in your policy paper 2.0. I hope you'll do the same. Finally, I would like to mention the principle of teleworking. We know that teleworking has accelerated rapidly over the past year because of the corona conditions. Of course, never washed a good crisis. You are trying to anchor teleworking in a structural way by striving for two days as a standard. Your policy statement was characterised by many generalities. At that point, too, you remained rather vague. I would also like to say that we should not be blinding ourselves to this trend. Of course, steps can be taken towards more homework for profiles where possible. There is no doubt that this will lead to different savings. However, even if homework becomes the norm, you will have to take into account the individual choice of the official at all times. In the evolution towards a modern government, the importance of the office as a place for meeting and social contacts should not be underestimated. A good balance will have to be sought for everyone individually. Apart from savings, working at home will also entail costs. We do not find anything about this either. Face-to-face contacts and cooperation between colleagues are indispensable in the present times. In teleworking, of course, they are far away. However, let us not underestimate the current difficult situation for workers. The well-being of the employee must be absolutely central to certain choices concerning homework. This is an essential exercise that needs to be made. We speak very often of burn-outs, but we certainly must not forget the bore-outs in the whole case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u52	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I was recently allowed to take part in an interesting and constructive discussion of the civil service policy plans in committee. I'd like to touch on a few interesting points. Future policy choices will be based on scientific insights and data, assisted by a battery of experts and various working groups and teams. Competence-oriented instruments, smart efficiency gains, intelligent process simplification, efficient resource use Of course that all sounds great and no sensible person can have anything against that at first glance. However, the question arises as to how all this can be implemented in a large organisation such as the civil service. During the debates in the committee, the Minister showed that he was open to a number of legitimate aspirations. I noted that the Minister was prepared to do what was necessary to ensure that the public authorities would pay their invoices in due time in the future. This is not yet the case everywhere, and certainly in the difficult and uncertain context in which we live today, this can be essential for entrepreneurs and possibly even make the difference between economic survival or not. Furthermore, the Minister considered it important for citizens to have the opportunity to contact the government in a way that makes them feel comfortable. That is an ambition that seems logical but nothing is as uncomfortable as getting someone who is not able to speak the language. There is still work to be done. I am pleased that the Minister has confirmed that he will also pay attention to this. Then I come to the proposals on selection policy. Any effort to facilitate the employment of persons with disabilities is welcomed by the Flemish Interest, not by magical quotas, because the fact that a government has to impose quotas on itself is actually very questionable, but by concrete measures such as investing in accessibility, appropriate accommodation, adapted equipment and guidance and support where necessary. It must therefore be concrete measures, not figures on paper. The under-representation of people with disabilities should no longer be a theme by 2020. So we're back to work. Finally, I come to the language issue. The essence of my speech is that Flemish interest finds that many public services do not have the mandatory language frameworks, an issue which the Standing Committee on Language Control considers to be a serious infringement. We look to you as a competent minister to put an end to this and to urge or even force the public institutions which do not yet have the compulsory language framework. Clear language frameworks that are properly staffed, what the Flemish Interest is asking is not revolutionary, but logic itself. Madam Secretary, I will conclude with an English proverb, especially for you: "The duty of the opposition is to oppose." It is not only for this reason that the Flemish interest is critical of your many plans. No less than 46 federal excellences have preceded you in this matter in the past. They too had plans and made promises, which were repeated every few years, but which were always lacking, mostly because they bit their teeth on cumbersome Community structures. We hope that you will do better than your predecessors, but we fear that it will be vain hope as in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u53	Mrs Goethals, Mr Toventors, we have already had a chance to exchange views in committee. I'm trying to answer the questions without taking long. Mrs Goethals, you talk about the importance of employee branding and making the government attractive again, including by paying attention to diversity. The government must reflect society. I agree. You have emphasized the importance of functional bilingualism. Mr Torasters also raised this point. In committee, I informed you that I will include this element in the Policy Paper 2.0 on which I am now working. They're not empty words. I cannot promise that I will take initiatives to adapt existing frameworks. However, should it prove that these frameworks are not being applied, I shall do so. This needs to be looked at and, if necessary, adjusted. This adaptation is not in so many words in the policy statement because it is simply a legal obligation. For me, this is obvious. There are other things that we have very clear figures and require adjustments. For example, on people with disabilities, Mr Tusters, you are right to point out that it is not just a question of 3% that we have not been able to achieve for many years. However, recent figures show a decreasing trend in the number of officials with a disability in the federal government. Since 2012 there has been a decrease from 1.5 to 1.2%. So we're not on the right track and we need to step up. We must pay attention to the adaptation of the working environment. When selecting, we must also take certain measures to give people with disabilities access to the federal government. Very recently, we have taken this initiative in the context of co-ordination measures and measures for the most vulnerable groups. We have also been able to free up funds for this in the federal government. This is really about resources that we will be able to spend in the coming months, especially to help people with disabilities in the context of teleworking. Mrs Goethals, you also spoke of telework. Of course, that's the hype of the moment. As a result of the corona crisis, we have all started to work on a massive scale and the idea has arisen of using telework more and more structuralally in the future. It is, of course, a way for the federal government to introduce the new way of working, which will lead to savings and a number of benefits for the environment, mobility and possibly also work-life balance. You have also indicated it, it is not possible for everyone, telework is not an alternative to all government jobs. You say it should remain an individual choice. It must be agreed in consultation with the executives. However, we want to achieve these two days a week on average per official on an annual basis as a standard. That will be three days a week for some and zero for some, just because it doesn't work. However, that is the objective. It's also in the coalition agreement. So we're just gonna do that. We also discussed it in committee. This will have to be accompanied by certain conditions. You also said there were costs involved. Just think of ergonomic material that people might need at home. As I have already said, consultation with the trade unions is about to begin in order to see how telework can be introduced in a way that is acceptable to both management and workers and is a good thing. I have also mentioned in my policy paper, and I would also like to mention this here, the right to deconnect. We all know that in telework, when people are sitting in front of the computer all the time or on the smartphone all the time, sometimes the separation between work and leisure is difficult. Sometimes that button needs to be turned. That must be acceptable to the supervisor. Good agreements must be made between the manager and the official. This is not only an important issue for the government. This is what we want to take with us to the discussions on telework. I think I've said the most important things. I didn't use English words, Mr. Tumbles. I'm not going to close with an English quote... Quote is an English word, of course. I walked into my own trap.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u54	Madam Minister, earlier in the budgetary debates, some have claimed and induced that the linear reduction applied to a number of primary expenditure which is 2% in the departments – except for a wide range of departments which will have a saving of 0.89% and which have already been mentioned (Justice, Health, Sciensano, etc.). – would necessarily lead to the elimination of 5,000 public jobs. Of course, since they were rather imprecise, it is not known how they calculated their calculations or on what mass they worked to arrive at the specious reasoning that, mechanically, this would result in the elimination of 5,000 jobs, as if the linear reductions necessarily concerned staff expenditure – but it is known that this is unfortunately not the first time that this type of process is used in the budgetary conclaves – as if there were no other types of expenditure such as operating expenses, and as if it were not possible to optimise, to pool, to better organize. Those who are occupied by communal management know that this is what we are working on every day. This means better functioning with the same means, and sometimes a little less, but it does not necessarily involve staff costs. Madam Minister, I wanted to hear from you on this point in order to twist the neck of this bad duck, if I may say so, because, for some time now, there has been a floril of bad information and manipulation. That's why I'd really like to hear from you. Are those who claim that these - 2% or - 0.89% will necessarily lead to the elimination of 5,000 jobs in this Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u55	Mr Laaouej, thank you for the question. I did talk about the savings that we're going to make and we're going to have to make. I said that telework can contribute to this because we will still reduce the costs of heating, electricity, the square metres used, etc. It will therefore be an opportunity to spare. In the government agreement, there is the agreement that the public service will save 150 million euros in 2021. Once we've allocated this amount to all departments, as you rightly said, some will have less to save. The target will be 0.89% for departments where investment is primarily sought, such as Security, Justice, etc. The others, to reach 150 million euros, will save 2% in 2021. We'll see for the next few years. The distribution key and other aspects have not yet been decided. It is therefore not yet to be concluded that it will be for four years. By 2021, we decided to save 2%. This is the percentage that has been saved in the past. Unfortunately, when we have to pay attention to the budget, we are trying to increase the efficiency of the procedures and thus achieve savings. The 2% savings will be on staff or credits, operating costs. For the moment, each department is studying how it will achieve these 2% savings. In fact, what I'm going to do in January is ask what the plans are. What I would not like, and I have already communicated about this, is that we use what is called in Dutch kaasschaaf (the cheese grater), removing 2% everywhere. Linearly, this means that all departments will have to save 2%, but this does not mean that they will have to cut 2% in everything. They'll have to make smart choices. Sometimes it may be necessary to invest in some areas, and save more in others. Above all, I would like us not to spare on the staff. The number of public servants has decreased from year to year for at least ten years, or more. Civil servants still have to do their job and provide services to society. I therefore believe that it is essential to find above all savings in the processes and in the gains that can be achieved with teleworking and digitalisation. My colleague Mathieu Michel is here. We will work together to digitize the public service, which, of course, can also lead to savings. I'll be in discussion with all the departments to see how they're going to solve this puzzle. But the directions I indicate to you now, I have already communicated them. No, there is no question of deleting 5,000 civil servants. I don't know where that number came from. I would have to look at how it was calculated. But there is no question of eliminating 5,000 jobs in the public service.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u56	Madam President, I thank Mr Laaouej for asking the question, even if he did so in a somewhat derogatory way, with many qualifiers, but it is not my style to play the Calimero. So, Mr. Laaouej, there's no problem. It's your choice to be derogatory, and it's no big deal, because the point is that the question is asked. There is precisely no answer. I didn't hear it. If it's not 5,000, how much is it? You don't give a number, because it's actually embarrassing to have to give up a number of jobs that are being eliminated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u57	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u58	Mr. Laaouej, besides being derogatory you cut me off all the time. Just be derogatory, but don't cut me off, if it's possible. This is the advantage of this calculation, which I can explain to you after, although Mr. Laaouej did not ask for it. I can explain to you in detail how I did it. We've got time, it's only 4:30. The interest is to see behind a blind figure - 150 million, then 300 million, 450 or 600 million depending on the year. Let us not forget the variable effort that is added to this fixed effort. It operates according to the same three-thirds allocation key, as confirmed by the Secretary of State. Behind this blind figure, it is necessary to define the impact on public employment, on the part of a government that says it wants to achieve an employment rate of 80%. However, where this government is boss, it already removes jobs itself, which is quite crazy. So the principle is simple. First, the loss of jobs was calculated for 2021, with the help of the Court of Auditors, which allocated the 2020-2021 expenditure by post. Staff costs are shown in the table: authority cells, social cells, economic cells. The difference is €46 million. Based on the cost of an agent calculated by the FPS Finances, we achieve 760 full-time equivalent jobs lost by 2021. This phenomenon then grows annually, to which must be added the variable effort, so that we reach 5,000 jobs on this same basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u59	You make 760 X 5,000...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u60	Can I finish my explanation? You're going to tell me we don't know, but we're going to try to limit it as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u61	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u62	Mr. Laaouej, could you stop persifing all the time?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u63	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u64	Can you stop? All right, thank you! From there, you say we don't know, but I see what's going to happen in 2021. There is no reason for you to act otherwise for the following years. So, we're getting 5,000 jobs lost. It's a reality you can't deny. Will this be 4,000 or 6,000 jobs lost? It is possible that there is a margin of 1,000 more or less, but in any case the order of magnitude will be that, and this only if you remain in the perspective of what you have planned for the fixed effort and for the variable effort. But there's also everything else that can happen. From then on, 5,000 is a minimum. What else could happen? First of all, there are the imperatives, the orders, the budgetary ukases of the European Union and the European Commission. In fact, in 2021, it's okay, but as of 2022, you're no longer in the Commission's figures. This will require an additional effort. There are also all your measures that will deflate for which amounts of EUR 1 billion are foreseen, such as the fight against tax fraud or the return effect. You will have to make additional efforts there too. There is also the economic situation which is likely to deteriorate even more than it is at present. Therefore, by saying 5,000, we are far below reality. It may be 10,000 jobs lost in 2024. That's the reality. Of course, you can deny all of this. It is obviously much easier to say that we do not know. Jobs will be lost, but we don't know how many. It's convenient but the interest of the exercise is that it puts you in front of your reality, that is, that you break in public employment. Throughout the previous legislature, left-wing parties have said that this right-wing government is "bad" because it removes public employment. Today, they do exactly the same as the Swedish did. That's the reality. This figure is indeed opposite to your policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u65	Mr Van Hees, let's say it's pathetic! It's really pathetic! We have moved from the elimination of 5,000 jobs with certainty to and if, and if, and if...and if the effort is made, in the same way, every year of year in exercise cumulatively,- the minister has specified that this was an effort made only for the year 2021 before seeing the evolution of the budgetary situation - and if the economic situation is deteriorating or it is not changing positively and the deficit is growing - we will see if the deficit is widening. It is in the government's objectives, on the contrary, to eliminate deficits - and if tax revenues are not on the table, and if, and if, and if...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u66	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u67	Yes, I do! That's all I did! Mr Van Hees, I can see that what I'm telling you bothers you. Nevertheless, I will continue. What is happening is that you take this Parliament and the parliamentarians that we are for gullible people, people willing to swallow your propaganda. Then, at some point, we come to precise figures and we realize that the bases on which you draw your figures are only assumptions and cascades of presumption, in other words, are based on nothing, nothing concrete, except your projections, your fantasies, the fantasies that serve your propaganda and ideology. And I think that is the problem; it is that, in a budgetary debate, one must try to stick to the facts and if one does not stick to the facts, then they are imaginary ones that confront other imaginary ones. And this is where there is one unfortunate thing: not only do you make false calculations, but you also think that there will be no one to analyze them and contradict them. And I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Van Hees, this credulity, with us, you won't get it! We'll scrutinize everything you say, including when you say or make mistakes. And there are two types of errors: the one that is made involuntarily and the one that is made knowingly. I believe that in this case we are faced with a mistake that is made knowingly, voluntarily. That is not acceptable. For the rest, Mr Van Hees, very sincerely, you have been rowing for at least five minutes. You're pedaling in the semolina. The only advice I want to give you is to stop at some point precisely being in a certain form of intellectual rudeness and especially in manipulative and misleading reasoning. That's what I want to tell you!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u68	Mr Laaouej, when you are forced to come up with pejorative terms, it is usually that you are a little in trouble at the point of argumentation. You totally betrayed the reasoning I gave. Indeed, you said it was a cascade of presumptions with sis. No, that's not what I did at all. The "and so, and so, and if" came in addition to the 5,000 jobs lost. This is beyond the 5,000 jobs lost. What was my calculation? I made the calculations for 2021 because we have the numbers. We know the jobs lost. Starting in the following years, I simply applied a proportional rule. A proportional rule has the merit of being proportional. That means we're staying on that momentum. It's a perfectly credible hypothesis. Of course, as I said, it may be a little bit more or a little less, depending on whether the effort is a little more about staff or a little more about operating costs. If we remain in the same proportion, we are moving towards the elimination of 5,000 jobs. We're not gonna get away from it. We won't be at a fundamentally different figure. The margin may be between 4,000 and 6,000. After that, all I have added then are elements that come together in addition: the elements on the European Union that will impose additional efforts on us, all the measures that will deflate. All this comes in addition to the 5,000. What I'm saying is that in the end, we'll probably be much further than the 5,000. Maybe we'll be 10,000. That is the reality, but I did not make that point in my figures because there, indeed, we would be in the cascade of presumptions. There, I simply remained in the proportionality of the effort of 2021 applied to the budgetary figures that are put forward by the government itself. Here, I have based myself solely on the figures of the Court of Auditors and the Government, respecting a principle of proportionality. If the Court of Auditors had been asked to make the calculation, it would have done exactly the same. What I note above all is that you, the majority, are afraid to indicate a number. You don't want to put a number. You say this is not possible because it depends on other factors. But you are afraid to indicate a figure, because, indeed, saying that you are going to remove 5,000 jobs, or 4,000 jobs, is not politically saleable. Of course, you're avoiding it. That's clear! I think this demonstrates your fear of showing the real reality of your policy, that is, massive job losses, thousands of jobs that are being eliminated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u69	It's 4:44. I'm telling you, we can't ventilate our room. Taking air would do a lot of good, since we don't know how to ventilate our room. Minister, would you like to reply? We can also stop!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u70	Ten seconds to repeat what I've already said. For starters: we're doing the exercise. Nothing's decided. In addition, even in the wildest scenarios including M. Van Hees could dream, that won't be the number you're putting forward. Not at all. I have explained to you why I can confirm that what you are making is not going to be correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u71	Madam President, I am not going to replicate anymore. I just want to thank the Minister for her answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u72	No interventions for Mr. Michel? [[No]] We are closing the discussion on the Internal Security, Asylum and Migration package and we can move on to the next section on justice in the presence of Minister Van Quickenborne.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u73	Madam President, Minister, I have printed my speech in a very large font not to have to put on glasses all the time, but it is so late that I wonder if it will succeed. Besides, I really wondered this morning whether I would take the floor, Minister. As the hour progressed, I have asked myself more and more. I have had very serious doubts, not because of the hour, but above all because the debate has already been thoroughly conducted in the Committee on Justice and because this is, in your own words, a technical budget for justice. The dots on the 'I' will not be done until March, after budgetary control. This actually means that we could have spared all of today's discussion, because we will probably have to do it again in March. Anyone could have gone home a long time ago. For a moment, I thought this might be the reason why the majority does not intervene in this debate. After all, they know that this debate must be repeated. Of course, it's not that simple. A budget is a policy document, as you know. You have policy plans and the test of those policy plans is in that budget. You may write down as much as you like in your policy statement or your policy paper, but if there is no budget for that, that is just a bunch of empty promises and talk. It is a pity for you that today we can only look at the policy paper and the policy statement as it stands today. Moreover, today we can only look at the budgetary figures that are before us today. We cannot discuss what you will make of it in March today. Minister, you say you want to go for a faster, more human, more criminal justice. Your policy paper reads very well and ambitiously. There's a lot of good stuff in there. Not everything in your policy paper is good, but a lot. That's what's needed, because the Justice Department needs it. The challenges remain great. We have already been able to turn the tanker around a bit with the previous government, but despite the many efforts, justice has certainly not yet arrived in the safe harbour. You promise, and you literally said so, rock 'n' roll. You were so smart, Minister, to slow down a bit, very quickly. I still see a certain euphoria in the discussion in the Committee on Justice. I also noticed this in the European Parliament. We could not have the debate there, we had to do it with Mr Lachaert, but I noticed a certain euphoria there. I have noticed this in committee too: a lot of joy, all flowers. By the majority everyone happy, I noticed. At first glance, I just said it, so was I when I read the policy paper. Why was that, Minister? Because something was linked to the coalition agreement, something would happen in Justice: Justice would receive an additional EUR 250 million every year. Fries! Of course we were happy, one would be mad not to be happy. And that wasn't enough. It was said that a further EUR 50 million would be added for digitisation. That extra budget was put on the market in a communicational way: by the Prime Minister, Mr Lachaert, you, everywhere. Your policy statement on page 5 "Your policy paper is what else says literally, I would like to read it to you, because you have already disputed it: "The annual budget of Justice amounts to about 1.9 billion euros. This legislative period will be invested an additional EUR 250 million on an annual basis, to be increased by the investment appropriations for digitisation, which will increase to EUR 50 million on an annual basis." Year base, that's what they said. When people read that and they put it next to the policy paper, I do think:let's rock 'n roll, I dance with it, wonderful. But, Minister, I do not know if you can remember, but on 2 October I made the comparison with a ticket in the European Parliament. I have made the comparison with a lottery ticket, you know: one thinks one has won a prize, but when one scratches away the silver layer, one is often disappointed because one has not won. I made that equation on October 2nd. I didn't know your budget at the time. I didn't know it until November. I've read it all, which is not so obvious to a lawyer, but I've struggled through it. We don't usually like numbers, but I'm glad I did. After reading that budget, the comparison of the grey, scratched-off layer and the finding that one has not won could not be more striking. I couldn't do that. After all, Minister, there will be no EUR 250 million at all and certainly not every year. In 2021, it is not 250 but 150 million euros. That's half of it. And what do we see after that? This isn't enough. It is EUR 125 million now, EUR 175 million in 2021 and EUR 225 million thereafter. We will not get EUR 250 million until 2024, which is a disappointment. Minister, as if that were not enough, we note that the amount has been committed as a general commission and has not been allocated to posts. What does the Court of Auditors say about that? The Court of Auditors expressly states that you can read this on page 54 of its opinion "Firstly, it is not transparent and thus does not give a correct picture of the budgets and the means to conduct policy. I mentioned that this is a policy document. However, Minister, the Court of Auditors also states that the allocation of that commission has only an indicative value. It is very late or very early, depending on how you look at the time, but indicative means 'not sure' and 'not fixed'. Let all that get to you. The contrast with what was put on the market at the beginning of October 2020 and what is in the policy statement could not be greater. Minister, that is very special. I wonder if the majority would have noticed this. After all, I cannot imagine that she would have thrown as many flowers on your plans, which are not budgeted today, if she had understood everything. So I really have the feeling, which I don't like and by the way nobody likes, that the people within the Justice Department themselves have been put on the wrong track. That bothers me, especially for a government that is full of new political culture. It also bothers me very much that Mr Leysen has just asked for the benefit of sitting here for a long time today to give applause for the budget, because we finally have a budget. I don't want any applause for that, especially from my couch. Mr Minister, may I give you some examples? The computerization and digitisation are very important to me. You announce that and you put a lot of effort into it. It's also your dada. On the way to Brussels today it was also about digitisation in Kortrijk. I know that your city of Kortrijk takes the lead in this with the local authorities, together with Antwerp. I heard that on the radio today. I think that's your thing, too. You announce that, but there is no provision for this. Nowhere. You can wrestle through the entire spending budget, you can look at all the allocations, there are no budgets for digitisation. Only that magic phrase is there: the budget will be increased. The Court of Auditors looked into that. You know that information can be requested from the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has therefore sent an e-mail to Policy and Support asking about the state of the 50 million for digitisation. The answer on 16 November was: there is no detailed distribution of that billion euros, because it means that you want to get that 50 million. Apparently, the Court of Auditors couldn't believe his ears and his eyes and then asked again what's really going on. The answer was that it was a working hypothesis that was not based on a final decision. There is no decision or agreement yet on the distribution of that billion. So that's not certain. It's worse than indicative, if you ask me. It's even less certain. But that's not how it was put on the market. In your policy statement, you also say you will be committed to meaningful detention. The guards need to be able to handle more. They need more skills. This costs more money, but no additional budgets are provided for there either. You say you will invest in the psychosocial service of the prison to strengthen those services. The budget for this was not increased, there is no extra budget. You want to do more for health care in prisons, which will make it better. What's the budget over there? On the contrary, the budget is falling in budget figures! Priority will be given to sexual criminal law. It would then be thought that the organisms accompanying the perpetrators of sexual crimes would receive extra money, because that is what is being waged on. But extra budget? No, there isn't. You want to bet on the transition houses, which, by the way, I agree, we have started with this under the Swedish Government. The prisoners who are gradually reaching the moment of their return to society are being prepared there. That's an incredibly beautiful initiative. However, the budget for this in your expenditure budget is falling. It will fall in 2021, but what is worse, for 2022 it will be allocated EUR 0.0. Mr Leysen said earlier that he is looking to the future. For the transition houses, it doesn't look good. You say you want to bet more on the victims. Minister, I think that's wonderful. That's important. You say you'll increase help for victims. There is a fund, and you will use it to help those people better. Did anyone find an extra budget for that fund? Not me. It's not in there. The Government of the Buildings has a deficit, which is confirmed by the Court of Auditors. That is annoying if you promise to provide additional capacity. As far as the process of the attacks is concerned, we now know what we stand for. It will probably be a long assistive procedure, unless everyone does something else tomorrow than what they have done in committee. However, this expenditure budget does not include a budget for this purpose. I can go on with examples for a long time, but given the advanced hour, I won't do that anymore. What have we done, Minister? We have listed the things that we are missing, things that you consider to be very important. At least that is clear from your policy paper. We have divided the EUR 150 million into a number of these items to provide security, so that we do not have to wait for the commission to be indicative. We have all tabled these amendments, because we are so constructive, but unfortunately they have been voted down by this majority. So the uncertainty remains. Apparently, this majority thinks it better to just be happy with some promises against which there is no budget. We have, of course, already had this debate. What was your answer in committee, Minister? "Don't worry, Mrs De Wit, this is a technical budget. It's normal it's not in there. What did you expect? A government in October and all the pennies in a row in November? We will do all that in the budgetary control in March." For starters, that's a very easy killer. The happiness and the flowers are then at least premature, because the actual discussion simply needs to take place, Minister. You still have a very big challenge, in particular legal aid or pro-Deo allowances. That is what we have been talking about. The revenue limits have been increased. If it comes at cruising speed, you'll need an extra 200 million a year. You're lucky that's not before next year, so you shouldn't have those pennies by next year. That may not be the case by 2022 either, but before 2023 it is, I think. If you then need EUR 200 million, EUR 225 million will be provided in 2023, then the money will be gone, Minister, and you will not be able to carry out all your other plans. You say that this is not the case and that it is the basis, but I feel strengthened in my reasoning that you will have to look for an additional EUR 200 million. None of the majority has made that argument, because it will be okay, they say, except for someone whose opinion I appreciate because I think he knows the department a little bit and that someone is colleague None. He's not here right now, but he'd seen that too. He said that it could not be the intention for the commission to be drawn up in this way and that a structural solution would have to be sought. This means that an additional EUR 200 million will be needed. Either you will have to delete certain items, the commission is only indicative today, or you will have to look for new money. Those discussions are still getting interesting. Budgetary control in March will be very essential. I hope the majority will be very awake. We will retable our amendments, and perhaps we will keep you in the right direction, because today I am really worried. After all, I read your policy paper well on the rock 'n' roll record, but I can't do it without a budget. Sorry, talk doesn't fill holes. However, we will not be able to test that until March. We have talked a few times about words and actions, Minister. We already have the words, the figures and the actions. I would also like to say a few words about your policy paper 2.0. I apologise, colleagues, because I know it's late, but I have to say this. You have joined Mr Calvo's appeal to the European Parliament. You have asked not only the opposition, but the entire legal field to make suggestions, which you would take with you. We did that, too. We have put forward a whole series of recommendations, and they were not crazy. I admit that we may have teased you a little bit by putting in the idea that the squat should be voted on, but I would have expected nothing else. That was Mr Lachaert's bill and dada. We worked so hard on this in the previous legislature, so I really couldn't imagine that he would give that up for this government. We have put that in there, but you said that it is not for Parliament to do so. Well, we know what happened: the Open Vld just took it off the agenda. Our recommendations may be more interesting. In response to the Julie Van Espen case and the questions raised by the family, the Supreme Court of Justice has issued a report on the treatment of sexual violence. Treatment of sex cases with closed doors and the unsub's risk assessment to reduce the risk of recidivism was our recommendations and you responded positively. I'm glad. We've done a few more. We had asked not to do the trial of the attacks in front of a jury. In the meantime, we know what that's gonna be. We have asked you to develop an approach to reduce the impact of severely addicted parents and future parents on children. That comes from the antisocial N-VA, you know, but I think we did our best to make a good contribution. With regard to the new Code of Criminal Procedure, we have recommended that you should point out the issues and not make a new Bible for the sector, in order to give it a little peace, as much has already changed. We have asked for something to be done about the language in court cases, so that people no longer go shopping in the outskirts of Brussels. One chooses according to the language where one is softest punished. Work on the matter of Halle-Vilvoorde. I admit that's a little harder. The repeat monitor wasn't a difficult one at all, but it was a fair question. Measuring is knowing. It is very important that this is implemented. It seems clear to me that you are consulting with the Communities. A colleague of the MR found it annoying yesterday that you will not carry out sanctions for the time being and advised you to impose electronic supervision. If you are considering this, do not forget to talk to the regional ministers instead of simply passing the problem on to them. And then there was the important recommendation of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the Crossroads Bank Security. We have done our best to be constructive. To my great joy you said that there were good recommendations and that you would include them in your new policy paper. But then what did you say very dryly? I had to understand; it was part of the political game that people would vote them out first, as you would not be able to convince the majority. I don't understand. Either you are serious about the new political culture and the policy paper 2.0 and you acknowledge that these are not unreasonable recommendations, even if you do not take them all with you, or not. Now you say that you are following the recommendations and will do something with them, but not yet, because now they are being voted down, Minister, you yourself feel that this is not consistent. The difference between word and deed cannot be greater. However, in that respect too, we have an agreement in March or perhaps later, or earlier. We'll see. I'll keep your promise. Minister, I am actually convinced that you mean well with Justice. There are a lot of good things in those plans. You've already entered the grounds and you have ambition. You're also a very powerful communicator. Your marketing machine runs tremendously, with tough language, zero tolerance, addresses, Justice team. You are also making a budgetary point by putting them into the market that they get 250 million each year. You can do that. I'm not concerned that you're communicating like this. If it doesn't make sense then, and if the budget isn't right, it bothers me. That's what worries me. You say yourself that you do not want to promise heaven on earth. That marketing and communication is what you're doing. You create expectations. Everyone's heard about the 250 million every year, including on the premises. Then you will have to explain that it is not before immediately, but before 2024. You create expectations that you may not be able to meet. You say you want to restore trust in the Justice Department. You say you can pay for that, but that's how you undermine it. That's very unfortunate. Talks don't fill holes. You don't pay bills with tough language, marketing and addresses. The Justice Department needs a full account, as you promised. That's what your plans will need. Until then, they remain empty promises. You're gonna have to wait a little bit longer with that rock 'n' roll, until then that faster, more modern and more criminal justice will not happen. That would be a damn shame. There's got to be one. Then I'll come back to the beginning. Why intervene on a technical budget? Mr Minister, we have a meeting in March, after budgetary control, when the real budget for justice will be in place and we really know what promise will be given which budget. Until then, all this is literally and figuratively just talking for the often.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u74	Madam President, Minister, good morning. I can only join my colleague in the N-VA. Expectations are created with many positive objectives. Flemish Interest can support many of these objectives. More than that, you will find some of them in our programme for years. However, there is one but, there is no budget to achieve all that. I also wonder how you wish to achieve all this in practice with the colourful composition of this government and its diverse views. That's asking for trouble. In 2020 there will be an annual budget of 1.9 billion euros and an additional 300 million will be added every year at cruising speed. What does it prove, however? The increase in the budget is slowly being built up to be complete by the end of the reigning period. I fear that all of these resources are insufficient to fulfil all your promises. In fact, your policy paper is a priceless promise book. A painful finding is that the exact distribution is decided in the course of 2021 or later. On what basis was this policy paper written? It's not transparent at all. How can you put forward plans and make promises if it is not clearly defined how much resources are used to tackle the problems? I'm looking at the priorities for 2021. First of all, a modern and digital Justice. The list of projects to be carried out seems almost endless. It is not enough to name the problems in abstracto and put solutions forward. You must also make these solutions practical, Minister. However, we do not find much in the 2021 budget on this issue. You want to make Justice attractive again as an employer. That is necessary, the profession of magistrate is not at all attractive enough today. The absolute priority must be the approach of the understaff. Today there is a big problem with the influx of new candidates. Of course, this has a direct impact on prosecution policy and the duration of investigations. You want to reverse that downward trend, but I find no concrete proposals for 2021. What initiatives will you take next year to improve these working conditions, the environment and, above all, the financial conditions? You must stop waiting for years because before we know it, this period of government is already over. I have also read that you will offer extra support to the magistrates, with more practical lawyers, criminalists and referees. There too, however, I do not see how this is going to happen and by what means. You must continue to work on a thorough revaluation, certainly from next year on. That's the only way you'll be able to attract more magistrates. How will you deal with this in the field and what resources do you provide for it? Then there's the penitentiary staff. In fact, your policy paper pays very little attention to this. There will be an adapted strategic staffing plan, but we have guessed what that will mean in concrete terms. These people have been working under very difficult conditions for many years, often in outdated buildings. They also have to work overtime and can't take a vacation whenever they want. On top of that are the stressful conditions caused by the overcrowding of prisons. The prison staff have been drawing attention to this for years because no one had an eye for it in the past legislatures. We also find little concrete proposals in your policy paper. I would also like to express my support for a special extra support for the staff because they have had a very difficult year because of corona. We had a corona department in Bruges, the only covid department in the prisons throughout Belgium since March. So all the infected prisoners had to go there, including the French speakers. Since last month there is now also a French-speaking department in Lantin. The guards vouched for the guarding of the prisoners, even those in intensive care. So they were ready day and night in the fight against the spread of corona. The healthcare sector has quite rightly received a premium and this staff deserves it, at least as a sign of respect for their many efforts. Are you going to make funds available for this? Then there are the buildings, the courthouses, the prisons and the forensic psychiatric centers. These buildings are being adapted and they are being added, a fantastic initiative that we support. But what it says is really megalomaniac. Even if you spend your entire budget on those buildings, you simply don't get to do it. Here again, my specific question is what is your priority in 2021? Then the prisons. We urgently need to put an end to overcrowding in prisons. Everyone knows that. Of course we support you in this. We are your ally to build these new and modern prisons. There must be attention not only to the necessary renovations, but also to new prisons. Human treatment requires at least a thorough adaptation of the sanitary facilities and a sustained fight against pests. I would also like to refer to the various judgments of the European Court of Human Rights condemning our country for the inhuman conditions and overcrowding in prisons. Some concrete projects are being announced here, but here too, my question is whether there are sufficient resources? What are your priorities? When can we expect anything on site? What do you plan for 2021? Next, the short-term criminal proceedings, the quick-track law, the lick-on-piece policy: perfect, we support you in this. Responding to street crime, shoplifting, intra-family violence, juvenile crime, but not just for that. A lick-on-piece policy should be put in place for all forms of crime. Flemish Interest has been an advocate for a speedy handling of these crimes for years. You will find an ally in us to realize this. It cannot be that these files drag on for years before victims are protected and reimbursed. For easily identifiable crimes such as street crime, shoplifting and riots, you will ensure a quick and appropriate handling to prevent recurrence. The question is whether this can be achieved by means of the resources provided for this purpose? Asking the question is actually answering them, especially taking into account the emptying of the parquets. Moreover, it must not be forgotten that there is a huge problem of filling in the frameworks and staff of the local and federal police. I also know that this is a competence of your colleague, Minister Verlinden, but a deficit of 3,500 agents, with an annual outflow of 1,400, has inseparable consequences for the criminal justice chain, in particular for increasing the chances of getting caught. Moreover, the majority of the public prosecutors have a policy whereby smaller forms of crime are simply not prosecuted by a lack of resources. That will be no different in the next few years. Your policy paper pays attention to new legislation for fast-track law, with additional staff. When is this design due? How many extra staff are we talking about? In what way is this used? What resources will be made available for this? Then there is the digital justice system. Your goal is a fully digital file. The policy paper states that the building blocks already laid in recent years are being improved and supplemented. Justice must finally be able to work completely digitally. Here too, you do not provide for budgetary and concrete implementation. Your ambitions are great, but unfortunately the budget is not. You are well aware that an extensive and thorough digitalisation has a solid price tag. When I read this together with all your other objectives, I can conclude that you will not have that money. What will be the priority here? What specific details do you provide? What targeted investments will you make to ensure that sufficient material is available? The policy paper announces that the electronic record will be immediately launched and that the outdated and complex system of the classic court letter will be replaced by a digitally processed court letter. How will you realise this in concrete terms? What budget do you want to link to this? Then there's the part about making justice more human. You want to make justice more human and put the victim at the centre. We also support you in this respect, because you have a great many objectives, but I fear that the lack of staff and resources will once again make this impossible to achieve. By 2021, your policy paper will pay attention to the Commission for Financial Assistance to victims of intentional acts of violence. This is not provided for in the policy statement. How are you going to strengthen and speed up the process, because this remains a bottleneck? My colleague has already said it. What attention will you pay in 2021 to implementing the results of the Baekelmans report, of the Supreme Court of Justice? What resources will you spend on this? Finally, in view of the second or even third corona wave, will you work on digitisation in 2021 so that victims can file criminal charges electronically? These are a number of things that Justice should make more human so that people can get help more easily. Next, we'll make Justice more criminal. This is rightly reflected in the policy paper. We see the entire criminal chain that has been limp for decades, and these problems have always been passed on to the next governments. Structural measures have never been taken. You are going to change that, and I can only welcome it, but how are you going to rectify it, with the limited resources you have at your disposal? I know that I am unfortunately repeating myself, but I wonder how you are going to use these resources. Then I come to the execution of all the punishments. "All punishments are carried out." I heard the Prime Minister say this in response to the declaration of government in the European Parliament. I haven't heard you say that so clearly. However, the guiding principle must be for us: those who commit a criminal offence must be punished effectively. But how is that supposed to happen? Prisons are already overcrowded. What are your priorities for 2021? My colleague, Mrs Pas, has recently requested the figures and it shows that there are 1,925 fugitives. Of these, 430 are Belgian nationals. The punishments can of course only be carried out if the convicted person can be apprehended. How are you going to solve this problem, also taking into account the fact that the number of arrests in recent years decreased from 117 in 2017 to 59 in 2019? Specifically, how are you going to take care of that? How are you going to ensure that all prison sentences, including the short ones, are carried out? Then I come to the repatriation to the country of origin. Your policy statement is clear: non-Belgian prisoners must serve their sentence in their country of origin. Inmates who no longer have a right of residence in Belgium on release or at the end of the sentence shall be repatriated. This is straight out of our program. The policy paper shows that it is not until tomorrow. There is only attention to the return of prisoners after the end of their sentence, but no attention is paid to serving the sentence in the country of origin. What are you going to achieve in practice next year? Then I come to the attention of terrorists and radicalized people. You also pay due attention to this in the policy paper, but you state that it is important to work with these prisoners in prison for reintegration. Only practice teaches that, unfortunately, many of those prisoners radicalise in prisons. That needs to be followed up much better. There is an important task for the Communities. It is also important to make urgent efforts to adapt and extend the system of making the criminal enforcement court available. A legislative proposal has already been tabled by Mr Pivin and this can perfectly be approved within the shortest period. The draft new Criminal Code, which is now before us, does abolish the system of posting. I wonder, then, whether you are also in favour of this abolition? If so, is this not only diametrically on your job to protect society from serious criminals, but also at the centre of the victim, which I mentioned earlier? Then the final chapter: we make justice faster, more criminal and more human on the ground. First of all, a powerful and modern federal judicial police. The attention given to the judicial police is positive, but once again there is no concrete content and no indication of the means to be used. Then there is the fight against organised crime. Once again, there is no concrete definition or indication of the resources to be spent. Next, tackling drug crime. It is addressed in the policy paper. The new Power Plan is also very good. A uniform policy is being developed. There's gonna be a port attorney. Private partners are also involved, but the question arises as to how these private partners are involved. We also see another problem with the incoming containers: only a fraction of them are checked and scanned. Isn't it time to take an example from other world cities, where one manages to scan more than 95% of incoming containers? There too, I know, it requires investment. Is that budget? Without control or with limited control, you can never really expect a good result to be achieved against the drug traffic. I cycled right through it. They are a lot of beautiful objectives and I really hope you can achieve them, but I really do not see any concrete budgetary implementation at the moment, and so I remain hungry.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u75	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to thank my fellow Members for taking part in this important area at this early hour. I think that we have had a good debate in committee, and I sincerely believe that. If we look at the report from the committee meeting, which is more than 200 pages, I would ask those who have not followed the debate to read it. Majority and opposition have testified to knowledge of matters. There was also a debate on the substance. I've said before that I think that's the right way to work. I hope we can keep that up. Secondly, in committee I said that I am open to suggestions and recommendations from the majority and the opposition. I'll come back to that later. What is striking, ladies and gentlemen, is that, on the substance, content, by the opposition, which I appreciate, little to say the least, is that no concrete suggestions are made in relation to justice. On the contrary, I am asked when I will do certain things and how I will finance them. In substance, however, I do not see any other orientation towards the opposition. That is very interesting because that means that, apart from the financial discussion I will be coming back to, the opposition supports my policy. I think that's good and interesting. There have been other debates, including with Mr Loones on finance, the budget, where there are other insights. But Mr Loones has listened very carefully. I have seen him listen but, one has to be honest, there are few other orientations about justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u76	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u77	Now it's about content. [[(Hilarity]] ) I have not heard anything in the debate that would be wrong. Mrs. De Sutter listens well and can confirm that. She's not a lady of many words, but she listens well. I have heard very few other things in substance. I find that interesting. That means we have a broad majority to implement that policy. It's fantastic. Mr De Roover agreed, Mr Van der Donkt agreed. Soon we will have a two-thirds majority here for my plan or even more than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u78	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u79	I know you're obsessed with a Flemish Justice, and everything would work much better. That's bullshit. We'll transfer it to Flanders and then it'll work better. We're going to see how Flanders did it in the fight against the corona. We will not have this discussion. Perhaps Mr Vandenbroucke will be able to say a little more about this later. Some modesty would please you. [[(Hilarity]] ) It's true. We're going to have the discussion about the corona control and the glowing approach of Flanders... Long live Flanders! What's the discussion? Is there enough budget to carry it all out? On page 5 of the policy statement, Mrs De Wit, you can see that at cruising speed EUR 300 million is added to a total budget of EUR 1.9 billion. I'll be honest with you. I think a lot of colleagues in the government are a little jealous of me. I see Mrs. De Sutter leaning towards me. She might be a little jealous of me. The Minister for the Budget is here, too. She stayed special. She says, no doubt, that's my most expensive bird. Justice is my most expensive bird. The increased expenditure on justice is quite spectacular colleagues. The budget is increasing structurally by more than 13%. How far back do we have to go in time to establish such a greater edition of justice? I went looking. In a debate with Mrs De Wit, I referred to Jean Gol and the overpopulation back then. Jean Gol was the man at Justice. That's before my time. I was 12 years old when Jean Gol was Minister of Justice. Even in Jean Gol's time, it has not been possible to achieve such a more extensive edition for justice. This is a testament to the fact that this government, in its full composition, pays attention to security. Who deserves the credit for increasing that budget? That honor is due to my predecessor. Period. I said that at the committee meeting and I repeat it here. He has had the merit of putting into transition, in temporary non-suspecto, in his famous book Justice what is needed to make Justice function again. The increase in the budget that we have now received is perfectly in line with what he wrote at the time. The Minister for the Budget and Koen None will confirm that. The more edition for pro Deo that comes at cruising speed in 2025 and 2026 is not in the base. Mrs De Wit, for the umpteenth time, I would like to tell you that this is separate from the EUR 300 million at cruising speed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u80	There is therefore a fundamental increase in investment in justice. I think this is a good thing. This means that we will also be able to finance the elements we are referring to. For next year, 125 million euros will be provided as a commission. We will allocate that commission to the first budgetary control next year. We need time to do that division. That goes without saying. In addition, a budget is also foreseen for investments. That discussion is ongoing. That's the famous debate about the Recovery and Resilience Fund. For the first time, this is a beautiful and interesting name used in European decision-making. EUR 15.5 billion is foreseen for our country. We will have a Consultative Committee on the distribution key tomorrow. That is where the discussion will take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u81	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u82	We will have a discussion on this in the Conciliation Committee tomorrow. We're not here yet. But don't worry. We're gonna make a deal with the states. We're gonna do that with you. That's cooperation federalism. The money that we are going to get federally will have to be distributed. Part of it will be devoted to the Justice Department. It is our ambition to obtain EUR 50 million from that billion. This brings us EUR 250 million plus EUR 50 million to EUR 300 million at cruising speed. That hasn't been decided yet. First, with the Länder, we have to establish the distribution key. A great deal of work has already been done by Secretary of State Dermine. I say that in all modesty. He's worked out a plan in detail. This week, we discussed the substance of the text which he has drawn up. The focus is good. He's a smart guy. Of course, there will also be attention to Justice. So more money is provided for the Justice Department and we will do the'ventilation' in the first budgetary control. Mrs De Wit and Mrs Bury, at that time we will make a new appointment to see how the distribution was done. We will indeed have to make choices, but the discussions on the ground are in full swing. I just listened to colleague De Roover on the subject of 'connecting'. When it comes to the narrative, Mr Loones, we have a good colleague to bring it narrative, and that is our Prime Minister. But you also have a good colleague for that, especially Peter De Roover. Peter De Roover is the narrative of the N-VA. He's a linguist. It's always a pleasure to listen to him. On the narrative of the 'connection', Mr De Roover, I testified at the committee meeting and also in plenary. I'll keep doing that. There have been three recommendations from the N-VA on which I have literally said that I am committed to submitting them to the government. That's an effort commitment. My policy statement 2.0 will be presented next year. The three recommendations of the N-VA on the Supreme Court of Justice on sexual violence, the evaluation of the mental illness law and the repeat monitor, a very interesting idea, will be included in the text. You may ask me why I have not done so now. I've explained that to you many times. The mechanics are clear. If we get good recommendations from the opposition, we will first refer them to the government. It's gonna be settled in a minute. There are three criteria: it must be feasible and affordable and it must be in line with the government agreement. That's obvious. We'll take that test within the government now, but I think it'll work. The recommendations of the N-VA will be included effectively in our text.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u83	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u84	I beg your pardon? You want me to do that in the yellow color? That's not a problem for me. So we will. I think this is pretty unique. I do not think we in the previous Michel administration had that openness to the opposition. We did not have that, Mrs De Wit and Mr Loones. Now we have that openness, and that is a step forward. I support Mr Calvo's initiative. Besides, I'm not the only minister who did that. Mrs De Sutter has done the same and also Tine Van der Straeten. There are several ministers who have done so, and that is a good thing. Mrs Bury, I come to your comments. You've asked a lot of questions. I am prepared to reply briefly, ladies and gentlemen. They're interesting and pertinent questions. I would first like to stress that we did not wait for this debate to take certain steps. With regard to the debate on violence against the police, you know that we have taken important decisions in this area. We have adapted the COL to the great satisfaction of the police unions and the reality. After all, we see that the provisions on violence against police are being applied on the ground. I refer to the incident in Bruges last weekend in which people were arraigned before the investigating judge. There are also actions on the fight against corona. The decisions taken this week by the College of Attorneys-General are not historical, because that is a big word, but still, that the College adapts letters in such a short period of time is exceptional. After all, last weekend we saw an inflation of illegal parties. I do not use that other word because that is too much honour to the people who organise it. Those are illegal, criminal and antisocial parties. At 24 hours the text was amended, thanks to an assertive Justice, which is very quickly on the ground, to the satisfaction of many, certainly of Mr De Roover, who also wants to be a guardian of the rule of law in Parliament. This clearly defines when and how searches may be carried out and drones deployed. This has provided a very clear answer to the questions put in plenary last week, to the satisfaction of the police on the ground and the magistrate. Apart from the text, there is a lot of movement on the ground. I have a lot of contacts with the College of the Courts and the courts and this week with the College of the Public Prosecutor, and I note the enthusiasm and conviction that justice can turn the tide. Mrs. De Wit, I don't promise heaven on earth. Nor will we see all the punishments carried out by 2024, but we will bring substantial improvement in many areas. For example, we will recruit extra in the area of magistrate with a view to the application of the rapid law. In addition, we will bring down the bulkheads between the various frameworks. We will make it easier for lawyers to become parquet magistraat. We will take the first steps in connection with the social status of the magistrate, which is so much to do, to make part-time work possible. What measures will we take next year for the penitentiary staff? In the last week, I had discussions with the three unions of the penitentiary officials on progress on the basis of the results of the welfare survey, which was held last year. Next year the staff will be better equipped and there will be better work clothes, we will provide extra laptops for tele and home work and we will award a care premium to the nurses in the prisons, for which we are now writing the royal decree. What do we do for quick justice? I was visiting Limburg, which can boast of a fantastic operation, where parquet, police and mayors easily tackle identifiable crime on the ground. That's impressive. Mr Demir was allowed two weeks ago in Mechelen to present the project SAMES, which we will roll out. This Friday, all 14 parquets in the country will sit together to learn from Limburg and see how to apply the practices there throughout the country. This will be done step by step in the coming year. What do we do for digital justice? Next year we will provide a better working environment and buy additional laptops and second screens, important for the magistrate. For the court letters, as for the traffic fines, we will have a central work, instead of 40 employees constantly having to fold letters. What are we doing next year for the Commission for Financial Aid to Victims of Intentional Violence? We will digitize the processes, because victims often have to wait two years for benefits, which is far too long. What about tackling sexual crimes? Tomorrow, there will be an important file of millions of investments in Justice in the Council of Ministers to enable the digital file of victims of sexual crimes and the digital signature. It's going to be several millions, tomorrow at the Council of Ministers. With regard to the execution of penalties, we must implement the law on external legal status. What are we doing in the field of repatriation? In less than three hours' time, I will be sitting with my colleague, Mr Mahdi, in favour of agreements on the expulsion of illegal immigrants from the country of origin and on possible agreements to allow persons of another nationality to serve their sentence in other prisons. What are we doing about radicalisation in prisons? The improvement of the Selex list is already under way and we are working with the Communities on deradicalisation. Last week I had a fruitful meeting on cooperation with Mr Demir, a very good Flemish Minister for Justice, and I will do so with the other competent ministers. What are we gonna do next year with the fight against drugs? Early next year we will appoint a port attorney in Antwerp. Indeed, more containers need to be scanned, and that is what we are doing with colleague Van Peteghem. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we are working, we have ideas, we are taking concrete initiatives, we have resources. So it is progressing, along with people who are convinced that we can turn the tanker of Justice. The longer I do the job, by the way, with passion, the more sure I am that we can get justice into the 21st century. Will everything be perfect? Absolutely not. You think there's gonna be something else that's gonna go wrong? Oh, yes, I do. But there is an unlikely amount of talent among the 27,000 people of the Justice Department, the penitentiary officials, the magistrate, the seat, the standing magistrate and the FGP to change things. It'll work. I would like to thank colleagues in the government, in particular the Secretary of State for the Budget, for giving us the resources to do so. I really believe that justice is at a turning point. Corona has taught us that with digitisation we can make significant progress. There is a willingness today on the ground to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, before you there is a believer, who is doing the job the longer he becomes more convinced that we can improve justice. I realize you'll pay me for that in 2024. That's obvious. That's the way it is. Fortunately, there is a good opposition here, which plays the game in substance and not on the man and I appreciate that. Let's keep doing this. This is the way we can reform politics in our country: by playing not man or woman, but by discussing the substance of the matter and exploring what we can improve and how to move forward. So I thank you from the bottom of my heart for your input and I hope that we can continue to work well together in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u85	Minister, first of all, I absolutely agree that there is a talent in justice. I am pleased that you are continuing with the practical examples. Let's face it, it's them who keep things straight. It's not for us to do that. Secondly, as far as the policy letter 2.0 is concerned, I am satisfied with your willingness to accept some of our recommendations. It's a shame you haven't already done that. But I can see a crooked reasoning here. Your proposals are on paper, but have not yet been financed, and ours should not even be put on paper. You suggest that only financially feasible proposals will be implemented, but we do not know about your proposals either. However, I hold you to your word and hope that our recommendations will be incorporated into it. Our party does not even need to be mentioned for me; its content is more important. Thirdly, on the substance of the debate, you said that you heard almost no comments. But may I remind you that during the committee discussions you referred so often to the work and the booklet Justice in transition of your colleague predecessor No one said that it was almost embarrassing? So you are continuing to build on the policy of the Swedish Government, and that is why we welcome many aspects of your policy. The tanker had already turned and you steered it further to the harbor; I'm glad for that. We have made recommendations and not just us. So don't say we didn't talk about the content; there were a lot of substantive questions. I did not want to put it last night; it is 40 pages and colleagues are undoubtedly satisfied that I did not do so. In any case, there is no point in repeating these questions here, as long as we are not sure of the budget. It's as simple as that. Fourthly, you formally underline that there will be additional money, including for the pro-Deo scheme. I suggest you have a word with colleague Geens. You cannot get that money from the commission and until further notice there is no structural solution. The Court of Auditors has made a clear statement on this.Of course that is an opinion, but BOSA confirms it. You can try to convince me, but I can't change that much. Finally, Minister, the proof of the pudding is in the eating, but unfortunately we cannot yet have a table. I'll be able to have breakfast later and prepare the sandwiches for the kids. We will continue the debate on budgetary control in March and hopefully the money will be there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u86	Minister, you see an absolute majority in our speeches for what you want to do for justice. It's hard to say otherwise. Given the lack of justice, what you recommend will always improve the situation. As far as I am concerned, I am certainly saying yes to an absolute majority. Then we can make progress together, also with the installation of a fully-fledged parquet for Halle-Vilvoorde. I hope that the other side will go along with that, and then we can get rid of the shopping of French-speaking and Dutch-speaking investigators and wrong procedures, which then have to be repeated. This is not the case anywhere in Flanders. The N-VA has indeed made some good recommendations and I hope you will accept them, but the same can be said of the recommendations of the Flemish Interest. Perhaps you could also consider it and translate it into your policy. Indeed, it is too early to talk about your policy for 2021, because there are no budgets yet. You called yourself a believer. As a fan of the series The X-files, I had a poster hanging in my room. I'm gonna go with it for a little while and hope I don't get disappointed too quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u87	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? [[No.]] That concludes the Justice chapter. Let's move on to the next theme.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u88	Thank you and good morning, Mr President, Madam Minister and colleagues. Madam Secretary, you have an ambitious plan for the next legislature. However, ambition and objectives are not sufficient. They also need to be realized. There's still a lot of work to be done. Several points still need to be examined. Studies and advice are still needed, such as greater attention to the social role of postmen, e-commerce, personnel policy, building infrastructure and better training of staff. The classical correspondence has been under pressure for years because of the falling mail volumes which only increased during the corona period. The conventional mail by letter is shrinking by 10 percent in Belgium every year. This gives us a commercial turning point. The delivery of packages at home is increasing in this Internet-dominated society. That's reinforced by corona. The e-commerce already doesn't lay bpost wind eggs. Thanks to the fast delivery of packages, we got a staff shift which meant that there were too few staff on the parcel services. The 24,000 employees give the best of themselves every day. They are entitled to work in good conditions in which the well-being of workers is taken into account and the workload does not exceed normal proportions. That is also a working point. Our group supports the vending machines, which improve the sustainability of e-commerce. The government still has a majority stake in bpost by 51%. This implies the possibility of political influence, especially on the board of directors. It sometimes leads to open arguments about vacant administrative posts. Our group opposes any form of political appointment. Bpost had clearly not been vetted when Mr Van Avermaet was appointed. Was that because this is a political appointment? In any case, there is an investigation into illegal price agreements that Mr Van Avermaet may have committed, although he denies anything to do with them in all languages. In the meantime, several competent executives left bpost or not because of the appointment of Mr Van Avermaet, which we deeply regret. Everyone's innocent until he's convicted by a court of law. It would have ordained Mr Van Avermaet if he had taken a step back in order not to jeopardise the operation of bpost during the duration of the process. As CEO of a company, and certainly of a public body, one must be one hundred percent honest and free of all blame, including the suspicion of it. We are also questioning the role and effectiveness of the political board on this issue. A balance between well-being for bpost staff and maximum, efficient and reliable services is central to the Flemish interest. We will monitor and critically assess your ambitions and objectives as well as your policies. We will not fail to vote and support what is right. However, we will also be tough on any failing policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, if texts are read out, I suggest that they should also be delivered to the ministers. This is not the way the ministers should write down handwritten notes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u90	Madam Minister, we have already had the discussion in committee. What we appreciate is that you put the importance of public service at the centre. The post must be at the service of the people. That is a good thing. We will, of course, have to see how this translates into policy. I have a number of questions about this. Will there be a trend break with the past where a liberal minister went very strongly towards further privatisation of the postal service? Will you ensure that the auxiliary staff get the same decent pay as the other postmen? I've been through that a lot. The relationship between the wages of the CEO, Mr Van Avermaet, who has a wage of more than 800 000 euros and those who have a minimum wage should be addressed. A second important point concerns an ecological and sustainable solution that you are discussing in your policy paper. We do not immediately see how you will deal with this. The evolution of e-commerce increases the ecological footprint, you say. We see the vans going around in the cities. I put forward in committee the idea of reintroducing the mail trains. You said at that time that SNCB did not consider that feasible. We are wondering how you will deal with this ecological aspect. We still believe that the idea of these postal trains is a positive proposal from an ecological point of view. Thirdly, you are also talking about social sustainability. How will you ensure that both the services and the working conditions of the workers are properly respected in the management agreement? Last week we had the discussion about the mailboxes and postal machines that have been taken away in many regions, which means that people have to go very far. Certain people even have to take the bus to collect money. Will you highlight in your management agreement the need to improve the provision of services?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u91	Mrs Dewulf and Mrs Vindevoghel, we had indeed had the opportunity to discuss the subject you mentioned in committee. I am absolutely convinced that, on the one hand, an autonomous public undertaking such as bpost must maintain itself autonomously in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive market and, on the other hand, has a role to play as a public service provider, as laid down in the management agreement. The management agreement is the lever, the means for the government to make public service agreements with bpost. Mrs Dewulf, you pointed out the social role of the postman. Perhaps we should think about that aspect, which is always reflected in the debates, all the more so because the postmen who go home to the people, and the post offices, which are mostly present in the villages throughout Belgium, form two valuable networks of bpost. If the mailman is no longer the daily mailman, because fewer letters are being sent, we need to think about what other positive role we can give him or her. This will be the subject of negotiations on the management agreement with Bpost. After all, if, at the request of the government, bpost develops activities other than those of normal market operation, it must be negotiated. I would like to inform you that the sixth management agreement, which expires at the end of the year, will be extended by one year and we will start negotiations with Bpost for the seventh management agreement after New Year. This is going to be a serious process, involving Parliament as well. I have already been able to gain much inspiration in committee meetings about the future relationship between government and bpost by majority and opposition. Some proposals are feasible, others are not. Mrs Vindevoghel mentioned the postal train and it is good that the Minister responsible, Mr Gilkinet, is here. According to my information, it concerns the transport of mail items to sorting centres, which are not accessible by train today, while the train is not sufficiently flexible. This was confirmed by the policy-makers of both rail and bpost. I would very much like to discuss with you the ecological sustainability of bpost. It is clear to me that, even if it was not a public body, bpost is making efforts to reduce its ecological footprint certainly in the growing parcel delivery market. E-commerce will only gain in importance in the future and bpost can and must certainly take a place in it, but this must be done in a good way. Due to the problems of several weeks ago due to the excessive influx of packages, we have already learned that the model in which the consumer places an order at the push of a button and expects the package to be delivered on the next day is not sustainable in the future. Perhaps we should think about other ways of delivery, such as delivery machines, or other organizational forms, such as the ecozone and the last mile delivery, of which Bpost projects are already running in Mechelen, among others. Packages are collected in a location on the outskirts of the city, after which they are delivered by electric vehicles or bicycles, in an ecologically friendly way, to consumers at home. Moreover, electronic demand during the period of over-capacity of packages to pick up their own package at a pick-up point shows that 70% of consumers have no objection to this. In the whole e-commerce story, we have to give people the chance to indicate that they do not want to see their parcel delivered at home, but are willing to pick it up at a pick-up point. On political interference, I note the following. Bpost is a public undertaking, the government of which is therefore a majority shareholder. This means that we can appoint a representative to the Management Board through the General Assembly. You can call that political interference. The government is a shareholder on the board of directors and therefore the political balances will be respected there. My position is that I have repeatedly communicated this with regard to the CEO that, as long as the board of directors retains confidence in the CEO, I will not intervene. There is indeed an investigation going on, but one is innocent until proven guilty. If other facts come to light and the board of directors expresses confidence in the CEO, then we clearly cannot continue with the current CEO. At the moment, there is trust. Mrs Vindevoghel, you asked how we would guarantee the public service of bpost in the new management agreement. It is clear that we are considering what new adapted forms of public service bpost can take up via the postman and post offices. You undoubtedly heard the radio message from a dozen days ago that bpost has plans to give other functions to the post offices. In the media, that was reduced to the neighborhood store. That's not part of the plan. I am not in favour of that either. What could be done, for example, is a service role for citizens who do not have access to the Internet. In order to reduce the digital divide, post offices could act as service centres. This remains to be negotiated under the Seventh Management Agreement. In addition to economic and environmental sustainability, bpost must also take account of social sustainability. It will be important for the public authorities to respect social dialogue and workers' working conditions. You have already mentioned several examples where things are not going well and where things can be done better, and I have already invited you to discuss them in more detail. We'll definitely do that. I would like to make the following point. If you compare the working conditions of the employees in, for example, the sorting centres of bpost, which are related to e-commerce activities, with those in other companies in neighbouring countries, you must conclude that bpost is doing its best. We have already seen this in the development, moreover in consultation with the social partners, of the pilot project on Sunday work, which will start in February. I am confident and will ensure that the social conditions for the employees of bpost are always taken into account. It's gotta be a win-win story. It is a difficult balance, but it is our job to monitor the balance between, on the one hand, the functioning of the market in which bpost is in a competitive position for parcel delivery in relation to other players and to ensure proper management of the business and, on the other hand, the provision of public services with respect for employees' working conditions. We will certainly discuss this in committee as a result of the negotiations on the seventh management agreement, which we want to start after New Year's.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u92	Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u93	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply and happy holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u94	Madam Minister, in order to launch the following debate, the liberalisation of the postal sector as a whole has ensured that we are where we are today. Now there are postal people who have a salary of less than 1,400 euros, and that of course has to do with the race to the bottom that is going on throughout the courier sector. For those who want to privatise and liberalise even more, see the consequences of this in the post office. I would like to reiterate that we have made a proposal, which the PS agreed with, and I believe that the Green Groups too, to make the minimum wage of EUR 14. For a public company like the post, that should be realized. It is one of our recommendations that people receive at least EUR 14 per hour. Then there are also the auxiliary postmen who make up a lot of unpaid overtime: they sometimes do not have 11 euros, because they are more hours than they are paid for. That is one aspect. You didn't go into it. We have also proposed that the CEO's salary should be equal to that of the Prime Minister. We think that is reasonable, a CEO should not earn 850,000 euros, it can do with a little less. It would be a good thing if we were to be involved in the management agreements. As far as the management agreement is concerned, we have many ideas for good service provision and good working and wage conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u95	We'll move on to the Mobility hatch.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u96	Mr President, Minister, good morning, it is an advanced hour. I propose that we stop talking about road traffic because we have already discussed it extensively in committee and we often find ourselves in it, not always. We shall, of course, return to it in committee in the coming weeks and months. It would therefore be good to save some time here by leaving that issue aside here and now. Of course, I did not say that we agree on everything. You know that, don't you? I would like to discuss a number of points with you today. I would like to start with a topic that is very topical. From 2022 onwards, the Brussels-Capital Region intends to impose a city toll on all commuters entering the Region. That toll will consist of a fixed part and a variable part. So it's more than just a smart mileage tax. In addition to that load in the form of a variable part, which is adapted to the power of the Audi A6 and to the number of kilometres that the driver is driving around, a fixed toll is also charged. So it's not just a smart mileage tax, just to justify the story, it's a city toll, an additional tax. After all, anyone who almost accidentally drives his front wheel across the border of the Brussels-Capital Region, scares it and immediately turns it around, is already at a price, as we say. After all, a fixed amount and therefore a toll is levied. It is not surprising, therefore, that there have already been interesting discussions in the parliaments of Flanders and Wallonia and that there has been a great deal of opposition to the dossier. Ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you that tomorrow we will actually consider a motion for a resolution. We shall also ask for urgency. I am quite sure that we will also have that urgency. When I listen to the CD&V and the Open Vld in Flanders, I hear that they are on our line. I also notice this when I reread the tweets of the group chairman of CD&V in the Flemish Parliament or when I rehearse the statements made by Mrs Peeters, the competent Minister for Mobility, who stated that he would use all legal means against a unilaterally introduced city toll. That one-sided aspect is really a problem. After all, the competent green minister in Brussels has already stated on a number of occasions that if we did not get out of it together, the Brussels Government would introduce this tax unilaterally.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u97	I see CD&V and Open Vld position themselves in Flanders and I am sure they will support the urgency tomorrow. I am also counting on the broad support of the French-speaking colleagues, because a motion was unanimously adopted in the Walloon Parliament which opposed the intention of Brussels Minister Van den Brandt to introduce the city toll unilaterally. I hear and read that some people in the PS, not the least of them, also ask a lot of questions about the city toll. We have already asked questions about this in the plenary session and in committee. You know that we are very concerned about this dossier, because the commuters who come from Flanders and those who come from Wallonia will be burdened disproportionately, especially if they do not have sufficient alternatives to a car, and make no mistake, ladies and gentlemen, there are a lot of people. Even Minister Gilkinet's intention to stop a train every half an hour in our country does not solve that problem, because there are indeed more places in Belgium than some colleagues suspect where there is no trace. I myself come from one of those peripheral provinces, so I'm well placed to make that point. It is therefore not possible for such a toll to be introduced unilaterally on top of many transfers that are already going to Brussels from different levels. From the federal level and from the Länder, a lot of money flows into investment in infrastructure and projects to fulfil the capital and international role of Brussels. The annual federal funding for mobility policy in Brussels last year amounted to EUR 142 million and in 2021, so to speak tomorrow, is already increasing to EUR 155 million, and that for the rest of the legislative period. On top of that, there are the shuttle correction from Flanders, representing 44 million euros, and the budget from the Beliri Fund, which will also be indexed annually from 2021 onwards, and in the course of the legislative period it is not yet certain that budget can also be increased by an envelope from the federal recovery plan. As regards the use of the Beliri funds, I recently had an interesting exchange of views with Minister Lalieux. We know each other a bit better, including from the previous legislature in the Mobility Committee. I told her at that time that it was not obvious to us to simply sign a blank cheque for Brussels, because it became clear that in recent years Beliri funds have been increasingly invested in the construction or renovation of social housing, in the construction of nursery homes, in schools, even in the creation of STEM courses and so on. I am not saying that these are things that should not happen, but it seems to us that they are projects that are more of the core powers of other entities, of the Region, of the Community Commission and even of local authorities. These are things that are not directly related to the historic objective of the Beliri Fund. We have tabled a motion of recommendation in committee proposing that Beliris should only invest in projects which are in line with the historic objective. So we did not ask for these funds to be deleted, but we simply proposed that they be used in the historical objectives. Unfortunately, that motion of recommendation was voted down by the majority. I was sorry to hear that. At some point we heard nothing but cheerful fun about the new political culture. Naive as I was, I thought I'd make a constructive proposal and it would work. I thought it would certainly work because I heard that within the majority not everyone was particularly happy with the way in which these Beliri funds were invested. Anyone can consult the archives of our work and observe how the good colleagues of CD&V did not express the same, but to a large extent the same, substantive objections as I did then, unfortunately, to vote on the motion for a recommendation afterwards. I certainly do not blame them because I also know that they are not in a clear position in this purple-green story. Madam President, Minister, Minister, we are people of solidarity, but it cannot be that Brussels is a bottomless vessel in which we can only pump money without saying anything about it, because that was the message I received from a number of colleagues in the committee when I wanted to make my point in a friendly and polite way,'shut up, but we will decide where that money is going'. Of course, that's not how it works. We want to show solidarity, but real solidarity is reciprocal and limited. You must also understand that, noting that many of these funds already flow through all kinds of transfers to Brussels mobility and that there is such a great deal of misuse in the use of the Beliri resources, the city toll on top of that is really too much of the good. Speaking of bottomless barrels, I'd like to make a little bridge to the railroad story. Mr Gilkinet promises us almost heaven on earth, namely more of everything. There will be more trains at any time of the day, more rail links, more employment, more infrastructure, more maintenance and more support for passenger and freight transport. When hit on the flare, every station arrives at a train every half an hour. It reads like a fairy tale but the funding doesn't quite follow. If the budget lines are exceeded, it is noted that the basic operating allowance of SNCB does not increase. On the contrary, the indexation of the basic contract is frozen from 2021 onwards. This means four consecutive index jumps for rail transport, the equivalent of a structural saving of more than 50 million in this legislative period. In addition, SNCB's investment allowance will be frozen from 2021 onwards. The figures show that the net grant is slightly increasing but this is due to the removal of the investment costs for the ETCS. So here too there is de facto savings. Capital subsidies are growing slightly, but this is considerably lower than the savings I mentioned. That is not just the conclusion of the N-VA, that is the conclusion of the Court of Auditors. The Court notes that, apart from the capital grant, the jars containing the crucial government grants on which SNCB is dependent are in fact all getting smaller during the current legislature. Thus, the government's expensive fairytale is not paid by the State or financed by productivity gains within the company. At the start of the Swedish Government, Mrs Galant had the ambition to increase productivity gains by 2% annually, including by focusing on personnel policy and addressing the cumbersome structures of the two companies. There is hardly any trace of such ambitions today, and the question is where the money is going to come from to pay for that fairy tale. There are, of course, possibilities. You may be borrowing extra at some point, but in any case there is a fear that some of that money will have to be coughed up by the traveller, in the form of an increase in the ticket price. I think I can say, Mr Gilkinet, that you have already expressed sympathy on several occasions for the idea of increasing the ticket price during rush hour. You may say that I am wrong, that I am not on the right track, but at least it has been said here and it is clear to everyone. If it were true, then at the time most people take the train the tickets would be more expensive unless you confirm immediately that this will not happen. Then we shall all take note of that. Thirdly, is that money coming from the European subsidy crane? If we look at the lines of the budget, an amount of EUR 200 million was entered. This is a first disc of European support that Belgium could benefit from under the Next Generation Recovery Fund. Half of that amount goes to rail investment. This means that we have an extra budget of EUR 100 million through this European subsidy crane for 2021, in this context rather small money. During the discussion under the policy paper, the link was also made to possible subsidies from the European Green Deal pot, but that was still uncertain and anything but structural. While there are hardly any figures on the towering promises to support the development of services, there is, I must admit, a considerable increase in the Infrabel allowance for the maintenance of the rail network. In that you are also clear. You want to maintain all rail connections, even the smaller, barely used ones. I would like to refer to the previous CEO of Infrabel, Mr Lallemand, here in this House, at his last hearing not so long ago. He said that he had no better example of waste of public money than the maintenance of small rail links. Not my words, the words of Luc Lallemand, praised by friend and enemy as an amable gentlemen, but above all as an on-and-top professional. It's not for nothing that Paris calls. This wasteful item, Mr Lallemand's words, is the only item in the budget for which more money is explicitly allocated. The biggest problem of wasting money in the rail sector is tackling this government by putting even more public money into that project. In the meantime, Infrabel or 231 million of new loans will have to be made for the completion of the Regional ExpressNet around Brussels, which, unlike many small stations where one can count on one hand, awaits tens of thousands of commuters. This is an investment that will undoubtedly encourage people to stop driving into Brussels by car. That GEN could be one of the solutions to tackle a problem that Brussels wants to tackle today with the new city toll. This, of course, says something about the government's priorities. I find it incomprehensible. A normal company that invests all its money in the most loss-making products, the products with which it reaches the smallest number of people, is a company that organises its own bankruptcy. In the short term, promises are priceless, but also in the long term, nothing changes at all. There's 0.0 long-term vision. There is no preparation for the liberalisation of passenger transport. Colleague, I apologise for having to talk again about liberalisation, but we have to face up to things. The starting date for the liberalisation of rail passenger transport is inevitably closer. Now that the deadline has moved to 2033, again it seems as if we have a little time and it seems as if anticipating something that will inevitably ever come is no longer really necessary. 2023, the earlier date for liberalisation of rail transport, was still a long way away at some point. And 2023 isn't that far away today. Also 2033 will be there faster than we think. We know how much time the fairly complex exercise of splitting up the unitary business to the two sub-firms, Infrabel and SNCB, has taken about five years. Then it is better to start preparing for an exercise that is much more complex today than tomorrow. When we read the coalition agreement, we saw two more pilot projects in connection with the liberalisation of rail transport, one in Flanders and one in Wallonia. However, this became more conditional during the policy statement. I am holding my heart for the moment that SNCB is about to face a market that will be opened up effectively. So the government is going for a fairy tale, a particularly expensive fairy tale. The question is whether it will know a happy ending.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u98	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the late hour, I will also try to be very brief and try to include all the elements in one statement. I will not go into the theme of the Buildings. In committee, we have been talking mainly about the closed centres, and we ourselves have put the emphasis on the buildings for justice, including prisons. This has already been addressed in the debate on another subject. With regard to Beliris, I asked questions about respect for language relations in the Brussels administration and the improper use of the Beliri resources by the Brussels-Capital Region, since these are funds that should have been used by Brussels Capital. I am not going into any more detail on that either. Now I am restricting myself to mobility, and I will be brief in that too. Unlike Mr Raskin, I will also include road traffic, i.e. rail, road and air traffic together. We have debated this very extensively and that was a huge sandwich. I shall now pick out certain pieces because it is too much to repeat them all. With regard to rail, the Minister promised the walhalla of rail, as I mentioned in committee, with a train in each station every half hour and even every ten minutes in the main stations. There are also more trains in the morning, afternoon, evening and weekends. Fares become flexible, accessibility is improved, platforms are increased, station infrastructure is improved, punctuality increases, maintenance and operational safety is improved, there is more service, Wi-Fi on the train, etc. That's an endless line of promises. This is based on a supply model, trains at each station, without research into demand or potential. Whether a passenger actually gets on the train in the station is irrelevant. That is almost the most uneconomic approach possible for the rail movement, dixit the previous CEO of Infrabel, Luc Lallemand, about whom the colleague already spoke. Minister Gilkinet has the merit of working out a vision and we appreciate that. After all, a vision has been lacking for years. The lack of a vision with associated management agreements for SNCB and Infrabel has led to the situation today with hopelessly outdated material, which translates into problems of employability, reliability, comfort, security, service, punctuality and so on. In other words, that vision is absolutely welcome. However, for Flemish Interest, the vision presented shows a lack of realism or credibility. Almost half of all the trains are out of date. The delivery of the new M7 devices, which are not accessible to persons with reduced mobility, is delayed. In addition, the Minister's plans will require not only more rolling stock, staffing will also have to be increased, technical adjustments will have to be made, only rail will have to be double-tracked, diesel lines will have to be electrified and a lot of other things will have to be done. The whole plan, which I call a kind of Integrato 2.0, but then really big, will cost handfuls of money, from now until 2040. Minister, you are counting on the annual allowance, the boost plan, which you are already giving 100 million for 2021, but is then a question mark. You are also counting on European money, but that is also a question mark because we do not know how much it will be. You're counting on yourself for these huge plans. I should like to refer briefly to the liberalisation of passenger transport by rail, which is being postponed by the granting of the unique operatorship to SNCB for ten years. This gives SNCB the benefit of clarity, which Mrs Dutordoir has repeatedly asked for. Actually, there was just no other way. That is not a reproach to this minister, that is just the legacy of the past. To date, Belgium has completely failed to prepare for the forthcoming liberalisation of passenger transport by rail. There is no preparation in this area, no trace, no vision of mobility, no management agreements, no pennies. It shows how the Belgian model in terms of mobility is all about its Community gums. A transfer of the railway to the regional level is envisaged, whereby each region can respond on its own account to the local needs, i.e. a Flemish railway policy, with Flemish resources, aimed at Flemish needs, such as a better infrastructure, more service, comfort, accessibility, punctuality, attention to the safety of staff and passengers. We are faced with increasing levels of aggression. There is nothing about that in the policy papers. Neither is the name Securail. Also important for Flanders are additional openings from, for example, port areas, international openings to, among others, the Netherlands and Germany. According to Flemish Interest, this is the only right track. Of course, it's okay to make road traffic safer. It is the ambition of every Minister of Mobility. It would be strange if it weren't expressed that way. Each party also supports this ambition. It is the ambition of our and perhaps all other parties to avoid any fatality in traffic. The way in which that objective is to be achieved can be different. For the Flemish interest, it is important to have a targeted policy. We don't want a witch hunt for the ordinary, good driver who occasionally goes wrong. It happens to everyone. That must of course be punished, but the motorists are already sufficiently endorsed in our country. We do, however, want a policy aimed at achieving a greater chance of catching up and more severe punishment for the stubborn recidivists who disregard all the rules and put themselves and others at risk with their reckless and irresponsible behaviour. For them there can and should no longer be a seat behind the wheel of a car. Society must be protected from them. We therefore believe that the solution should be sought earlier in terms of enforcement, compliance with and consistent enforcement of sanctions rather than once again amending the rules which have not been complied with. Good cooperation with the Justice and Home Affairs Ministers will be crucial. There is no measure or ambition in the Minister's traffic plans that improves or facilitates the fate of ordinary drivers. By this I mean the regular driver with an ordinary car with an internal combustion engine. They are still the vast majority in our country. Registration fee, driving tax, excise duty on fuel, traffic congestion are on an outdated road infrastructure, possibly paying a toll to drive into a city, and then the possible barrier from a low-emission zone is the fate of the driver in this country, whose car will have to meet ever higher technical requirements in the future. According to the admonishing green finger, the motorist will increasingly be regarded as the great irresponsible culprit in the future. There is a great deal to be said about road traffic. Our country has almost half a million motorcyclists. They help solve the file problem. Besides, they're vulnerable in traffic. The Minister does not manage to mention them once in his plans. Motorcyclists simply don't exist for him. Finally, I would like to say a few words about aviation. There is not much to say about this. Like his predecessors, the Minister seems to be only looking to buy time with regard to the solution to the pressing problem of Zaventem airport. Consultation bodies, listening willingness, respect, some studies on things that are already being studied, but at no time a clear commitment to, for example, his Brussels colleagues from Ecolo, you know, those green friends from Brussels, who want Flanders and Wallonia with blue support to put a city to bed in order about their unreasonable policies. Since the Brussels-Capital Region has unilaterally imposed unnecessary noise standards on Zaventem airport, resulting mainly in federal periodic penalty payments paid by Flanders, a concrete solution is not at issue for the time being. In summary, the policy plans of the Minister for Mobility were very long overdue. The expectations were high. But the mountain has given birth to a mouse: an unrealistic railway plan, a traffic plan which is one-sidedly focused on cyclists and pedestrians and which puts the motorist or motorcyclist further into the tribulation, and finally no concrete prospect of the airport problem. That's disappointing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u99	Minister, we are also ecologists. We think your plan is very ambitious. We think it is very important that there is good mobility, especially as we are increasingly faced with congestion, fine dust and air pollution, while transport is responsible for one fifth of emissions. It's an ambitious plan. But you're stuck with savings from the previous governments. In ten years' time, 7,000 jobs have been lost by SNCB, and productivity has increased by 5%. That is our most important point. We are very pleased that you say that there should be more trains, one train per half hour, more stations. We think that is fantastic, but we fear that the budget that is now on the table will not be enough to make that happen. We have already put forward a concrete proposal to contribute to this matter. Actually, it was a proposal of the sp.a, namely that SNCB would be reunited with Infrabel in one company. We are calling for this proposal to be implemented. I have already referred to this proposal. You were not immediately in favour of this. You didn't think that was the first priority. But we believe that it would be a good idea, because it would allow you to bring together a lot of jobs at the top and thus make more resources available for the development of the railways. A second important point is, of course, the extension to ten years. That is, of course, a very good thing, but if the extension is accompanied by opening the door to private initiatives at the same time, then we fear that this is the way to further liberalisation, for which we cannot find anything at all. In several countries around us, we have already seen enough of what the privatisation of the railways, the SNCB, would mean. During the presentation by the government, Mr Raoul already questioned you in committee about your ideas regarding the preparation of the private initiative. You were a little flou about that, but Mr De Croo was immediately very clear and called for effective work to be done on private initiatives on the track. I also noticed this in committee, because it was a very clear question from Mrs Verhaert. She asked you once again very clearly when you would start these projects, with dates for the pilot projects in Flanders and Wallonia. I was surprised at the attitude of the PS, which agreed that the pilot project should continue, which is a step on the road to liberalisation. These pilot projects in themselves would not be the route to privatisation, but it is quite clear that when pilot projects are organized, the private sector is allowed on the market. We fear that competition will be organized and we see what that means in the Netherlands. I also said in committee that we should not go too far on liberalisation. Freight transport is a good example. It has been liberalised and we now see the need for permanent subsidies in order to survive. I asked you what your opinion was on further subsidising freight transport. Will you do that? Lineas is one of the biggest players, comes from ABX Logistics and was almost given away for free. The equipment and staff were hired by SNCB. Now that firm comes back begging for money. We are in favour of a return to public ownership of freight transport. This is also an ecologically important aspect, so that there are fewer trucks on the road and more trains. The cynical thing about this story is this. Mr Minister, we have tabled a resolution similar to a Green proposal in which we ask for the current work on the Schaerbeek-Vorming freight line to be interrupted. We are asking in the resolution to stop this breakdown and to ensure that freight trains can return to Brussels. That resolution was rejected by all parties, while this is a response to the urban toll, which has already been mentioned here. We are in favour of freight trains in Brussels, which could result in thousands of lorries less in Brussels. That would be a very good solution. This is already a concrete suggestion with regard to freight transport, namely to ensure that that line remains open. We have not received any support for this, from any party, while Greens had a similar proposal. Finally, I don't know if you've seen the broadcast Investigation tonight at RTBF about the station in Mons. It was said that the cost of the station rose from EUR 37 million to EUR 324 million and that the works were delayed by eight years. We don't understand what happened there. We have many questions about this. Mr Elio Di Rupo from Mons took one of the most expensive architects for that project. We therefore call for an audit to be carried out on this Mons case. Actually, there's a similar situation in Ghent. There too there is an enormous extra cost in the construction of the station, an increase of more than 36% compared to what was originally planned. The PTB is asking for an audit on the station in Mons. What do you think of that broadcast? What do you say to this? Then I'll get to aviation. It is actually an understatement that so little attention is paid to the airport in your note. Here too, there is almost no more attention. The cynical thing is that the most important issue is noise pollution, at a time when there are almost no aircraft in the air, while here in this hemisphere everyone was still talking about the economic importance of the sector before the recess. The airport provides an annual added value of 3.2 billion euros to the Belgian economy and provides 24,000 jobs. Minister, it is a missed opportunity to draw up a sustainable, social and ecological plan for the sector. For the recess, we have tabled a resolution here, following the great bankruptcy of Swissport, with a number of proposals for a sustainable solution for the sector, including by taking into public hands Brussels Airport, which is now also in financial difficulties, by ensuring that a home carrier can be built up further, and by providing a statute for employees. Yesterday I learned by phone that, in addition to the many restructurings at Autogrill, skeyes and Interparking, Brussels Airport is not only being restructured and will have to hand in workers, but that there will also be redundancies. The airport is facing the biggest crisis since the existence of aviation, and I find it particularly striking that you, as Minister for Mobility, do not pay any attention to it. If the government will not take control of it itself, it will be the Ryanairs of this world who will conquer the market and I do not need to tell you how Ryanair is wiping out social conditions and social dialogue with the trade unions. Yesterday, action was taken at Schiphol Airport against the development of competition in the aviation sector. It is high time that you, too, took up your responsibilities and looked at the current working and wage conditions. Airport workers receive no more or less than a wage on poverty, because they have been technically unemployed for months and thousands of them live in uncertainty because they fear losing their jobs. We had put forward several proposals with sustainable solutions, such as the introduction of a statute for employees, the nationalisation of Brussels Airport, so that it would be in public hands, and coordination in the field of security. You did not discuss this during the debate in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u100	Allow me to replicate in advance what Mrs Vindevoghel said. Mrs. Vindevoghel, sometimes you're a stranger. You referred to Lineas, which would be too short-sighted to beg for subsidies, but I think it would be helpful if you looked at the figures of the predecessor, the national B-Cargo. They were no less rosy than Lineas's, but the whole thing on the side. By the way, your motion for a resolution on Schaerbeek-Vorming has led the Flemish Interest Group to vote through amendments. So what you said here is not entirely true. Moreover, you are quite free in this matter, the angle of view for the file on Schaerbeek-Vorming and line 26a, which you threw on the table in committee last week, is a little strange. The two protagonists are the multinational Audi and Lineas. I don't think that's very consistent. But that aside. Minister, you underlined that mobility is a freedom. I must say that that sounds a little strange from the mouth of a green mobility minister. The man and the woman in the street feel less and less that there is freedom of movement. On the contrary, it's gone. After reading your policy paper and your policy statement, the Flemish Interest Group has no hope of getting better. Your promises, which we read mainly in the French-speaking press, are hallucinating. The gifts you hand out in the form of free riding cards disappear in nothing when reading all your other promises on the subject. Your promises are not only grotesque, they are also very vague. A well-known Flemish writer, Johan Daisne, wrote the book The train of inertia. Well, the author of the book De train dervaagheid turns out to be a Georges Gilkinet. As far as vagueness is concerned, this was discussed yesterday evening, and last night you certainly deserved your place in the Vivaldi government. The first and, of course, most important question that we ask of Flemish Interest is how you will fulfil all these promises. These promises are grotesque, as I said, one-sided and, of course, highly ideologically coloured. As my colleague Mr Torbars pointed out, you place a strong emphasis on pedestrians and cyclists. You also want to bully the drivers a little bit. That brings me seamlessly to the corona crisis. Of course, we cannot avoid that. Mr Depraetere mentioned it this afternoon. As Cruijff said, "Every downside has its advantage." I believe that the corona crisis offers opportunities, especially in terms of mobility. However, you missed that train. After all, the corona crisis has shown that we are going to live and work differently but also, above all, differently and less commuting. So the primary question is no longer what means of transport we trade for which other means of transport, we should actually ask ourselves whether we can reduce our movements, both in terms of frequency and time and distance. I am thinking, among other things, of decentralising employment sites, working at home but also working in satellite offices in smaller cities. A question has also been put to Minister De Sutter because Proximus is an example in this one. So it is actually a reorientation that can result in some kind of investment shift. Unfortunately, we read little or nothing about this in your policy paper, you stick stubbornly to the 20th-century shuttle model. That is unrealistically expensive and surreal itself. To outline the context, the Belgian rail network, like its facilities, has shrunk considerably in recent decades. Lines were removed and stations closed, while facilities such as counters, plumbing and waiting rooms disappeared. Officially, this happened because they were not economically profitable, which unfortunately was sometimes the truth. However, it also happened mainly because the investment priorities were literally and figuratively elsewhere. According to your policy paper and your statements in the media, they are still elsewhere, not rarely in the Brussels-Capital Region. The Belgian rail network looks like a spider web, with Brussels as the centre and the North-South connection as a bottleneck. That is a historically growing reality, which does not mean that it must remain that way forever. This is at the expense of facilities in Flanders and the French-speaking part of the country. I have to contradict Mr Raskin here, because there is a strong investment in Brussels, within the framework of the Regional ExpressNet. There will be additional stations and stops, while lines will also be doubled. The small railway stations in Flanders and Wallonia where 20 to 30 passengers leave are mentioned, but they are also located in the Brussels-Capital Region, for example the stations Mouterij and Arcaden. They've been shot out of the ground like mushrooms, but now they're barely pulling 100 passengers a day. The reason for investing in the Regional ExpressNet is simple. The commutation is not yet sufficient and the Beliris funds are not yet sufficient. In fact, the Regional ExpressNet around Brussels is a vehicle to assist the bankrupt Brussels Region in its mobility problems. After all, it is easier to set up tram lines or metro lines in the context of the Regional ExpressNet via federal pennies than to use STIB. After all, there is no money for that. Mr Raskin, I repeat that I am surprised at the attitude of the N-VA, who rightly criticises commuting, urban toll and Beliris funds, but who, on the other hand, is a strong advocate of the Regional ExpressNet around Brussels, which is actually an additional funding mechanism from the federal government to the Brussels-Capital Region. Finally, what was hardly mentioned in the policy paper is the track of goods. We are all reading a doubling by 2030. Of course that all fits your great promises and it all sounds very good. The question is, of course, how will the government achieve a doubling by 2030? You gave the answer yourself. You will do so by strengthening the natural strengths of rail freight transport and making freight transport competitive. With these two pillars, you succeed in exceeding the vagueness of your objectives. The question remains: how will you strengthen the natural strengths of freight transport and make freight transport competitive? However, Minister, the answers to this question are obvious. The sector has long been begging for support measures. The sector is also begging for better, faster and more efficient communication with the archaic, belgicist Infrabelstal. So you really don't have to look long and far for the solutions. Sector's ready. But I read that you will not be together with the sector until 2021, so not only with companies like Lineas but also with industry and the Flemish port companies, which are asking parties for such consultations. That's a little late. I think it would be more appropriate to sit together with these people and these organisations before writing a policy paper than after. This is due to your ideological approach; in my opinion, you would rather sit with cyclists' associations than with organisations and companies active in rail freight transport. It's five to twelve, though. You've admitted that yourself, so that's not where the shoe is. However, we are concerned about speed with the Flemish interest. The opening of the Flemish ports is the engine of our economy. I dare to suspect you a little bit that this Community aspect lives a little less in Wallonia. However, the Flemish ports are not only the engine of the Flemish, but also of the Belgian economy. That's why I think you need to be more interested in opening up. We have shared concerns with colleagues across party boundaries on the basis of questions on the subject, which shows that the subject is alive and I hope that we have been able to stimulate and awaken you. I mention the path fees, the corresponding 740 meter train, ECTS and private locomotives, the opening of the port of Antwerp and the approved resolution on line 204 Ghent-Terneuzen, which we hope will get started as soon as possible in your policy area. Finally, I come to my comments on the environment in the context of rail policy. In view of your ideological background, it is somewhat remarkable that you do not include in your note any proposals or plans to make the infrastructure of SNCB and Infrabel, which has huge sites and buildings, more environmentally friendly, for example through the implementation of solar panels. In this context, the obsolete material also plays a role. In my province, East Flanders, there are still four passenger trains on diesel. I find it somewhat strange that the motorist is being fingered as a major polluter and we all have to take public transport on a massive scale, while the trains and the station environments themselves are not so green. I therefore challenge you a little to be consistent and to take environmental initiatives during this legislative period. This will also benefit your general policy and can lead to a mental shift from the car to the train for the motorist. East Flanders is the only province where passenger trains still run on diesel. At the beginning of this year we tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject and we hope that it will bear fruit so that we can get rid of these polluting, noisy diesel trains. I thank you for your answers and I trust you will share the insights and concerns of the Flemish Interest Group. If that is not the case today, it will be the case in the coming weeks, months and years if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your comments. I have seen in committee the full interest of the Members of this Parliament and of the Committee on Mobility in the issues of mobility. As far as I am concerned, they fall into three areas. Firstly, aviation, secondly, road traffic and, thirdly, rail transport. As far as the air sector is concerned, it is like the rest of the economic world, hit by the covid crisis. The planes are on the ground. He is facing serious difficulties. The air sector clearly needs to reform in order to have a future. It is a dialogue that I have been conducting since 1 October, both with representatives of the airport, with Belgian transport companies and with international bodies. This is an issue on which I have already spoken on several occasions in European meetings of transport ministers. It's certainly not a question I'm neglecting. It has an impact and economic importance for our country, which is very strong but also has an impact on the populations over which our planes fly. I inherit a particularly complex situation, a legal node given the increase in the number of legal proceedings brought before my arrival against the Belgian State, and I am willing to work there. It'll take a little time. I will do so in the interests of dialogue with everyone and the search for solid solutions. The second aspect concerns the issue of the road with an angle of attack which is a road safety angle. There are far too many people injured and killed on the road in our country. The government has a lot of ambition in this area with regard to all road users, those in cars, those who use the bike. It was agreed at the committee that this was an element on which work should also be done even if it was not included in the official policy note. Of course, I have a very special attention to the active users of cyclists and pedestrians. As part of the reform of the Road Traffic Code on which we continue to work and which is complex after the sixth reform of the State which now involves the Regions, we do indeed want a better sharing of the road between the different users and a better protection of the most fragile users, especially cyclists. It's an obvious and assumed choice. Mr Raskin, I am not a minister of the Brussels Region. You have already asked me several times about this project that we know now of slim kilometerheffingop het Brusselse grondgebied. I have told you that we must have the wisdom, politeness and intelligence to consider the proposals that are on the table, because I would like us to recognize together the particular difficulties to which the Brussels Region is subjected. This is the issue of traffic jams, which are very costly to our economy. This is the issue of the impact of fine particles on health. That's what CO2 is all about. The Brussels Region put a proposal on the table. It will be discussed with the other Regions, with the federal state, in the coming weeks. I will play my role, as Federal Minister for Mobility, to facilitate this dialogue. We will see what it can achieve: either nothing, if there is a general observation that the proposal is not ripe; or an improvement in the proposal; or an adoption of this proposal, although I doubt it by hearing the positions of each other. But at least in this country, we must have the courage to talk to each other rather than to consider that as soon as someone formulates a somewhat new proposal, it must be charred and prevented from dialogue. And then, starting from the powers of the federal state, starting from the powers that I exercise as Minister of Mobility, we must be able to develop a solid alternative to the car in order to allow citizens who so wish to have a mobility offer that makes them just as free as the use of their car. It also requires an ambition for the train. Yes, this government, and the Minister of Mobility who talks to you, have ambition for the train. I assume it, of course. Mr Raskin, I must not blame myself for not having a vision at the same time and say to myself that I have a vision and that we need the means that go with it. I think we need a vision first, and then we need to look for the means. That is what we are doing very clearly, with what is included in the government agreement. It is to know what we want, by 2040, for the rail. Finally, to give our transport company a new public service contract, since the last one was drawn up in 2008 and has expired since 2012; to entrust it with the role of passenger carrier for ten years, together with the adoption of this public service contract planned in the course of 2022. The aim is to set clear objectives for the two railway companies, SNCB and Infrabel, so that they know clearly where to allocate the means; to avoid bad spending, unnecessary investment. Mons station was quoted. She was the subject of a report yesterday on the French-language public channel. I am obviously shocked to see such a waste of public resources. I want to avoid this by giving both societies a clear vision to enable them to know where they are going. A vision without means is not right. So I'm fighting to get money for the rail industry. Decisions have been taken: 360 million compensations (consequence of the covid) for both the SNCB directly and for Infrabel, in particular for companies carrying goods, for the financing of the Operation Hello Belgium Railpass (1/3 of the Belgians asked for this Railpass, excellent way to re-attract people to the train) and the first part of the Plan Boost that we put on the table. Half of the federal state's investments in 2021 will be dedicated to rail, and that will not be all. My colleague Thomas Dermine, present here, and the other members of the government are preparing, as part of the European Recovery and Resilience Plan (Next Generation EU) a series of fact sheets to finance the necessary investments for rail after too long years in which it has been deinvested and weakened. Yes, there is ambition. An ambition in terms of service, frequency and freight transport. It is already translated through the Boost Plan. On Monday, the Board of Directors of Infrabel adopted the list of work to be carried out thanks to the new means put on the table. On Friday, SNCB will. The two companies will do so in coordination, because work involves both of them and it is only useful for Infrabel to invest if SNCB does not plan to coordinate the means necessary for the completion of the work. Today and more than yesterday, the two companies are talking to each other, and I am delighted about that. The investments on the table will make it easier for the Audi plant in Forest to transport cars produced across Europe, and for Nyrstar in Ghent to do the same. In addition, I am in dialogue with the port of Antwerp and the port of Ghent but also with quarry companies in Wallonia, in order to implement the ambition of the government agreement to double the volume of goods transported by rail by 2030. We are also preparing for the liberalisation which I have not chosen, but which is a European constraint as, I think, an opportunity to re-examine the railway model. The ambition is to grant SNCB a public service contract called direct award, i.e. a ten-year monopoly on freight transport, in the course of 2022. The government agreement also provides for, and I assume, two pilot experiments to see what would be the consequences of liberalisation for rail. It's better to know than to move on in the fog. Personally, and this is the case with both railway companies, working with the private sector is not an embarrassment or shame. They already do. This allows them, in addition to the very good level of knowledge and commitment of the workers of the two companies, to have today a high-performance rail model which will be all the more so tomorrow, with the implementation of the transport plan. Since Sunday, there are 400 more trains every day with a better amplitude. Within three years, 1,000 more trains are announced. A new station was inaugurated this Sunday, which is the result of the work of my predecessors. Not everything has been wrong, even though I am critical of the savings made in the past in the field of rail. We are moving forward with vision and means. I will conclude with the last of the priorities, which I have already announced in the dialogue we have in the Mobility Committee. That is the question of accessibility. The accessibility of perrons is essential. In the work contained in the Plan Boost, a significant part of the resources is devoted to the transformation of the stations, including the raising of the docks to a uniform height of 76 cm. With regard to the purchase of equipment, in particular the famous M7 cars, accessibility issues are obviously taken into account. The message is very clear and well received by SNCB in this regard. For the past two and a half months, I have been Minister of Mobility, and we have not been unemployed. Our vision is shared by all members of government. It is the government agreement that assigns to rail the role of the backbone of tomorrow's mobility in Belgium. I am committed to this, along with my government colleagues, SNCB and Infrabel. We have already sent concrete signals of change and ambition. I hope that I will find partners in this Parliament to move forward in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u102	Minister, I will be very brief out of respect for those who still need to be addressed. I would like to say two more things about the city toll. I know, of course, that it is not within your jurisdiction. As Minister of Mobility, you are, of course, an important actor in the story. That is why I asked you a question in plenary two months ago. The recent plenary question was not addressed to you at all, but to the Prime Minister, who, however, chose to hide in his cabinet rather than answer annoying questions. You say you want to develop a vision first, and then you would seek the necessary resources. I had a déjà vu. Mr Van Quickenborne said the same thing not so long ago. Mrs De Wit was somewhat surprised by this. You could, of course, also develop a vision based on the resources available. So you come to realistic and feasible plans. When you talk about your great ambitions for services, it is mainly about the maintenance of all railway lines, including the less frequent stations and the half-hour service. That's gonna cost you a lot of money. If we are not sure whether these funds are available and you are calling for insecure European subsidies, then this must be followed up properly. You know we will. Where we can find each other and work together, of course we will.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u103	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u104	Minister, you did not answer a number of questions, including the question about the station in Mons, I would have liked to hear your opinion. You also did not answer the question about freight transport. We should not draw a picture of the deterioration of freight transport in recent years since privatisation. We believe that freight transport would be much better in public hands. If subsidies are continued without any conditions, then the private sector is given money that does not benefit transport. We do not understand why you are not critical and do not evaluate the past period of the privatisation of freight transport. You mentioned two experiments. You say that it is a necessity that Europe requires us to move forward towards liberalisation. That's not true. We can go on for the next ten years. Europe does not say that we cannot move forward without liberalising. That's perfectly possible. That is a political choice one can make. Look at the countries around us where there has been privatisation, how things are going there. There are already several railway companies in the Netherlands. Prices have risen there and there are many more delays. So that's not a good thing. In England the opposite direction is made and they go back to nationalizing. It is not a good thing for us that you say here that you want to experiment with private companies. One final point about the airport. Yesterday there was a strike announcement at skeyes. You said you'd contact the unions. I'm glad you said you're going to sit down. I think it would be good if some of our proposals were looked at and a solution for the workers at the airport was sought. After all, I fear that at the beginning of next year companies will close again or restructure heavily. We really need to find good solutions for the staff working at the airport.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u105	This closes the Mobility part. We can start a new chapter. Mr Freilich and Mr Francken are not here. Mrs Gijbels, you are asking for the floor on Science Policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u106	Madam President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, it is now almost 7.30 a.m., a good time to wake up and get up. That is a good thing, because I would like to highlight a number of other issues relating to science policy. These are matters that affect budget management through the choices that are made, but also our main raw material. Science policy is about scientific knowledge and expertise, extremely important for our country and very valuable for innovation and development. It is our raw materials that we must cherish and do with. It is with that that we must distinguish ourselves. I therefore believe that it is very important that we make maximum use of this raw material and that no resources are lost or wasted, that there is nothing sticking to structures, but that we, as a community, actually invest in research, development and also generate output. First of all, science policy is actually a Community competence and we are now talking about the residual powers, which are federal matters. In response to the questions I asked you about this in committee, you mentioned three reasons for continuing to focus on federal science policy. Firstly, the scale; secondly, the supporting role for the federal government and thirdly, the fact that we have a certain common history that is difficult to split up. With regard to the first two points, I have immediately proposed alternative slopes. If we are really looking for scale, I think we should look for it at European level. The scientific advisory role for the federal government may as well be played through a tender by universities. What remains is that common past, but that too can be managed by the Communities at Community level. I therefore miss a key task debate in your policy paper, a vision on where the federal government can add value and therefore also on what tasks can be disposed of and go to universities, companies or the Länder. So a fair analysis, to see if the funds are spent optimally at that federal level. But it goes even further than that. Not only is there a standstill, you are even turning the clock back in the modernisation process. State Secretary Sleurs and Demir have initiated a process of independence of the scientific institutions, but that process is completely destroyed. However, independence would encourage each institution to do an efficiency exercise, to see for itself where there are opportunities for cooperation, where savings can be made and whether certain issues are not better outsourced. Unfortunately, however, it is back to a central direction, and that is when you want to be an engine of our economy with the Federal Science Policy, while we need flexibility, dynamism and light and modern science policy that is in line with the questions of today's economy. If federal science policy is to be a driving force for the economy, smart investments must also be made, for example in the space economy. Belgium invests an enormous amount in space travel. Belgium is the second largest contributor per capita in Europe. 1.46 billion Belgian euros go to ESA for this legislature. That's a lot of money. We must, therefore, at least ensure that the return is maximum, so that our economy and society can reap the benefits of it. I therefore hope for transparency in relation to the distribution of funds between the regions. There is uncertainty and concern about this north of the language border. Flanders is achieving the greatest return on investment and must nevertheless fight for a proper distribution of resources. Some of that has been straightened out, but there is also a long way to go. Will you keep your word and ensure that the funds are invested where the expected return is greatest, as you yourself indicated in your interview in De Tijd? At the very least, the regional distribution key must be respected here. Mr Secretary of State, do you intend to insist on this? With regard to the exemption from the corporate tax for companies engaged in research and development, I argued in committee for transparency, for an assessment by an external jury and for an assessment and follow-up of the proceeds. It is EUR 1.6 billion that is being released. It's actually missed revenue. Care must be taken to ensure that this support also has added value and reaches companies that can really make a difference. Our SMEs must certainly not be forgotten. They are the driving force behind innovation, progress and also sustainable employment. You have indicated that you will examine whether the procedure can be improved. How will you do that? How will you reach SMEs? What is the expected revenue from the funds released? In what way will it be measured? I would like to talk about the key tasks debate. The first project you appoint in your policy paper is to stimulate STEM. However, this is not part of the federal powers. Also restoring and converting to research vessel Belgica, which is no longer seaworthy, into a North Sea interpretation center might be nice to have, but only if everything else is about to happen and there is still enough money. That is certainly not the case now. It is a missed chance that a transparent structure of light, self-contained scientific institutions will not be pursued decisively, and that, on the contrary, there will be a return to a rigid central control system. However, we need just that revolution, if we want our scientific and art heritage to be preserved. Failure to modernise puts the institutions at risk. When good organisation and good management prove priceless, we run the risk that our works of art will not be kept in the right conditions, as the maintenance of the buildings, for example, is priceless. There is also a fear of a brain drain, in so far as it has not yet begun, to institutions that go along with their time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u107	Madam President, Mrs Gijbels, this was a nice summary of the debate in committee and I look forward to working together. In committee, we concluded that we agreed not to agree on the vision of the Federal Science Policy, including whether it is a residual jurisdiction (een restbevoegdheid), or whether it has a stable scope within the federal government. This is the result of differences of opinion on the basis of rational arguments exchanged on both sides. I remain fundamentally convinced that, as long as we do policy in Federal Belgium, the Federal Science Policy will be an essential competence to guide our policy because, even if we do not share the same political convictions, we share the conviction that policy must be informed by science. To have a scientific policy where policy is exercised is therefore fundamental. Nor do we share the same vision for the future of this country, but no matter what, we share a common past that needs to be managed. It is one of the fundamental tasks of the Scientific Policy to value, preserve and show this common heritage which belongs to all Belgians in the north and south of the country. As far as efficiency is concerned, it is a fundamental issue for both science policy and other policy issues. We do indeed have an organizational challenge at the level of Science Policy, which is to find the right balance between the competencies that can be exercised as adequately as possible at the administrative level BELSPO (centralization dynamics) and those that could be decentralized independently in federal scientific institutions that have relatively different trades? I am thinking, among other things, of the State Archives, of certain museums or of Belnet, which is a computer service. We are therefore working hard with the administration to redefine the organizational model that, as you pointed out, was a little confused without a solution by the previous government. We need to find a balance and work on an organizational model that allows for functional autonomy, while at the same time having a centralisation that makes it possible to use public funds in the most appropriate way possible. In space policy, as you mentioned, Belgium is the fifth contributor to the European Space Agency (ESA). Belgium has been a founding member of ESA since 1975 and, quite exceptionally, unlike other European countries, it has not had a stop and go policy, i.e. our involvement in ESA is constant. This government has made a commitment not to diminish its contribution during this legislature. We can rejoice in two respects. First, we can do so scientifically, because ESA's missions are fundamental to our universities, to our federal institutions, and to the challenges we most likely share in climate transition, Earth observation and increasing extreme weather events. Secondly, we can rejoice from an industrial point of view. You know that the minimum commitments to industrial return in terms of our contribution to ESA are extremely standard and that Belgium – from the North and the South – is doing very well in this area. Moreover, we receive many messages from the industrial sector encouraging us to pursue our space policy in this direction. The deduction for research is indeed a very important item, which is almost as important as the others that make up scientific policy. I agree with you on the obligation of transparency. As I had the opportunity to tell you yesterday in committee, my Finance colleague Vincent Van Peteghem has a complete inventory, which he can give you details by geographical area and sector. This deduction of investment in research is essential, especially for some of our areas of excellence. I am thinking of the biopharmaceutical sector, both in the north and in the south of the country, and of other leading sectors in our country. On the other hand, as a study by the National Bank of Belgium has pointed out, given the extent of tax non-receipts, it will be necessary in the course of this legislature to examine the possible impact of this deduction and to check whether we could not further target certain aspects of the measure in order to reduce them as much as possible. In this way, we could ensure that all businesses, including SMEs, have access to this mechanism. With regard to STEM, we agree on their purpose. It is a fundamental challenge for Belgium, for the economies of the north and south of the country, to achieve public awareness of science, technology, engineering and mathematics, as many branches suffer from shortages in these fields. It can also be seen that the number of young Belgians moving towards these disciplines is relatively small, especially in comparison with some neighbouring countries. This is particularly true for women, even more so than for men. Many levers are at the regional and community level. Nevertheless, the federal government has fabulous tools in the promotion of science and technology, and these instruments – for example, some museums, but also the ESA, which is the centre of ESA based in Redu and fulfils an awareness mission – must be made available to federated entities for the purpose of promoting science. We have all visited one of the federal scientific institutions during our school curriculum, whether to see dinosaurs at the Royal Institute of Natural Sciences, whether it is at the Euro Space Center in Redu, when we were little and it has contributed, in a way, to our wonder for the sciences. In this troubled period, when we see both the importance of science, but also the challenge for science, given a climate of return to obscurantism and some anti-science discourses, it is important to use all the tools we have at the federal, regional and community levels to raise awareness of the importance of science. As already said, I am already looking forward to our future collaboration.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u108	Madam President, I have one thing to add in relation to what the honourable Member has noted in asking for a return on investment in space. Of course, when I hear that, I think it is very timely. However, I would like to point out that when your two ministers, Elke Sleurs and Zuhal Demir, were manoeuvring and managing these skills, there were opportunities for the Redu Space Centre, which I know well and which I have been dealing with for some 20 years, and if we had not moved sky and earth to fight the lethargy of these two ministers, we would have lost the development of Redu. Indeed, applications had to be submitted and we had to do so almost ourselves in order to achieve the result. Similarly, if we had not been there to monitor the LESEC, of which the minister has just spoken, we would not have had it. Do you know why? Because there is no equivalent in Flanders, because this location also exists for geographical reasons. And without a fight, we lost him. This proves one thing: when a subject is not of interest to you, you pay little attention to it, while when you assume responsibility for space, it concerns the whole country and the return on investment is reflected in both Wallonia and Flanders. So when you ask for a return on investment and the application of a distribution key, you should invest the same energy when you have responsibilities. Indeed, I am sorry, but it is a file that I know well and when I hear such words, I cannot let them pass without reacting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u109	Mr Piedboeuf, I simply think that the resources should be used where they make the most of them, and the Flemish space industry has long been asking for more resources. That key still ain't right. It's on the right track, but it's still not right. The return is bigger in Flanders than in Wallonia. That is simply a fact, and I think that society will benefit most if the investments are made where the profits are greatest. I want to make that point. You may also have noticed in the committee that I am genuinely concerned about the preservation of our scientific institutions and our art heritage. I also sincerely regret that we are not going to continue with the revolution that has started, because it is really essential to develop a sustainable future for our science institutions and our art heritage. I understand that the PS is very attached to the science institutions and that it would prefer to stick to the old ones, but I had hoped that the new political culture would also give a new and refreshing wind blowing here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u110	Mrs Gijbels, personally, I am not complaining about the return on investment for Flanders. I am simply saying that, when we take responsibility for this sector, apart from the return on investment for Flanders, we must do what is also necessary for Wallonia and this pole is really fundamental for our country. I do not complain about actual returns and that a distribution key is applied. I say that when one holds responsibility for this matter, one must also fight for poles like this one and if one had not dealt with it, one would lose LESECs who would not have settled in Redu. And LESEC benefits students from all over the world, as many go there. In short, I simply say – but you are not responsible – that when you have this subject in your remit, you have to work fairly for the whole country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u111	We will have the institutional debate later, but I am pleased, Mr Piedboeuf, that you stand up for Walloon interests with Walloon pride. That is just what we need more in this country, that Flanders stands up for its Flemish pride and Wallonia also does for its pride and its files. Show that a little more in this House, very much. The simple guarantee to make sure that you are in control and that you can make sure that those files are on the table and that they are decided on is obvious. That conclusion is simple and I am sure you are capable of reaching that conclusion yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u112	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? We will close this chapter. Thank you, as well as the Secretary of State. We are now entering the chapter on External Relations, European Affairs, External Trade, Federal Institutions and Development Cooperation, in the presence of Mrs Wilmès.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u113	Madam President, is the Minister for Development Cooperation coming?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u114	She'll be here in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u115	My speech is about development cooperation, so I suggest I wait until the Minister arrives.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u116	I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Loones.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u117	Madam President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would like to speak briefly with you about the chapter on Europe and the European Union, which will not surprise you. Of course, we are not going to have a whole European debate here. You know that N-VA is a pro-European party that advocates European reforms and, above all, stresses the importance of the European internal market. We will have that European debate at another time. I would like to focus here on the budget and specifically the budget for 2021. The budget includes a contribution of EUR 7.74 billion from the federal budget to the European Union. That's what I want to talk to you about. I would like to ask you a number of questions about this. I have been a Member of the European Parliament for a number of years. The tone there was often that the European Union's budget is not super large, that it is only 1% of GNI, which is a variation in GDP. An atmosphere is created that this is not huge. If you look at this in absolute numbers, you will see that our budget is worth EUR 7.74 billion. That's a lot of money. It is about 5.3 % of the federal budget. I'll make a brief comparison. The local authorities get 3.6% of the federal budget. We give much more federal money to the European Union than to the local authorities. Let us just look at what money the government can really use to conduct policy. The budget is larger, but we all know that things are blocked, such as social security, donations and a number of obligations that must be done. If all of these are filtered out, the federal budget has around EUR 16 billion to implement policies on staff expenditure, operating expenditure, investments in, for example, security, mobility, migration, etc. That amounts to EUR 16 billion. If that is not the case with the European Union, in proportion to 7.74 billion, that is quite what money is. It's important to point that out. That, of course, is not the essence. The essence is what one buys for that money. We invest in the European Union and get a piece of return, policy that is being pursued and benefits that we have. Is Belgium getting what it pays for the contribution? That's the question. We are in a special context, because just now, for example at last week's European summit, the European multi-annual budget is also being discussed. It is almost everywhere budget time: in the Flemish Parliament, in the Federal Parliament and also in Europe. There we are working with a seven-year system of budgets, a multi-annual financial framework. I would like to make a brief comment on this and my question to you will be whether that reasoning is correct. You are a much bigger European grade specialist than I am. So I just want to confirm whether the figures are correct, and I do not want to provoke a debate on European politics. In the multiannual financial framework, budgetaryly speaking, there are some really good things. What is financing now? We are contributing to the European Union, but there is also a system of customs duties. For everything that is introduced in Belgium, the FPS Finance regulates the collection of customs duties. All Member States may keep a piece of that. That is a sensible system, because it is in this way that the Member States are being responsive. All Member States are encouraged to do their job very well, because in the case of a good and correct collection they can love it. The better a Member State does its job, the more it can keep itself. That's actually a good system. In the past, Belgium was allowed to keep 20% of customs duties, around 493 million euros. This changes: in the future it will be 25%. If I apply the rule of three to that, I will amount to about EUR 625 million, but I also know that it is a bit difficult to be absolutely certain about that. The Brexit is coming and we do not know what that will give in terms of trade and the administrative formalities that will have to be done at the border. Will that generate extra revenue or a little less revenue? According to a rough calculation based on the rule of three, we win around EUR 125 million a year. We are talking about a seven-year budget, so EUR 7 times 125 million equals about EUR 875 million. We therefore win EUR 875 million over the entire multiannual budget. Secondly, there is a small consolation for the Brexit, which is a bad thing: there will be a Brexit fund. We know that you have strongly argued for this, and several other countries have done the same. That's wonderful. It corresponds to EUR 5 billion. We have already had that debate today, so I will not repeat it. I focus on the 5 billion euros. That pool of money will have to be shared. That money doesn't all come to Belgium. There are still some countries that are severely affected by the Brexit such as France, Ireland, the Netherlands, Denmark, especially the North Sea countries. They are the worst affected. Unless you have a scoop here, you'll be making news today. We still don't know what key the 5 billion will be distributed. The Commission has said that it would first like to know whether there will be an agreement on the Brexit. It is only when this is clear that the Member States will be able to clarify the way in which they operate. In any case, imagine that we will get 1 or 1.5 billion of 5 billion, that would be very positive. I'm afraid it'll be less, but let's count positive. As far as customs duties are concerned, we are winning around 875 million. We also win 1 billion to 1.5 billion from the Brexit Fund. In total, we gain 2 billion over a seven-year period, the duration of the multiannual budget. I'd like you to say 2.5 to 3 billion. I'm in a generous mood this morning. There's a magical set of numbers around here anyway. There is a third positive point in the budget. At European level, there has long been a shift in the budget, to move away from old European policies and to invest more in new needs such as innovation, migration and security. There are a number of good things in this area. This means that we will also get a little more money than before, because there is less investment in transfers to the east and south of Europe. More for innovation, for example, is also interesting for us, we will get something there too. It's hard to calculate that. Let us say that we are winning EUR 2.5 to 3 billion with the multiannual financial framework at seven years' time. That was the good part of the speech. We get all kinds of things, but now the question is what do we pay? It was decided to increase the contribution to the European Union. It used to be 1%, now it goes to 1.067%. There is also a certain headroom. If this is taken into account, the figure is 1.4% of GNI. The headroom is used to build in some additional guarantees, some one-time expenses. In any case, we are seeing an increase in the budget, which translates very specifically into Mrs De Bleeker's budget. When N-VA was still in the government in 2018, the contribution to the European Union was around 6 billion. Next year, this contribution to the European Union will be 7.7 billion. We pay around EUR 1.5 billion more to the European Union every year, which means that we cannot spend on pensions in Belgium, for example. That leaves for the European Union, and the European Union is asked to pursue policies along these lines. That is EUR 1.5 billion that we pay extra in some seven years, which actually amounts to EUR 10 billion for the European Union. I would now like to make this comparison: on the one hand, through the Brexit Fund and the additional customs revenue, we are winning about 3 billion, and on the other hand, we are paying about 10 billion for the multiannual financial plan. In short, we pay 10 billion to get 3 billion. Is my rough calculation correct? I would like to add a brief pair thesis to that, so that I am certainly not misunderstood. Of course, we buy a lot of things for that, I'm aware of that. With our contribution to the European Union, we are buying access to the European internal market, which is of enormous importance for our open trading economy. In fact, we have already discussed this with the Prime Minister today. The question is therefore absolutely not whether we should be part of the European Union. Of course we have to be part of that. The question is not whether we should contribute to the European Union. Of course, we must contribute to the European Union. The question is whether we get where for our money. We pay about 1.5 billion more each year and there is a shift in the budget, but that shift is still not huge. In the past, around 70% was always used to finance agricultural policy and cohesion aid. Cohesion aid, these are the European transfers, and agricultural policy is mainly in favour of large industrial farmers in eastern Europe. We have already had a debate on this, here in Parliament. I won't repeat that. Now 60% of the 1.5 billion we pay to the European Union does not go to us but goes directly to other regions of the European Union. Maybe that's a little short. Of course, we also get some agricultural money and money from the cohesion funds, but we do not get any large sums. We are not among the largest beneficiaries of the funds. Actually, that's good news. It means that we are prosperous and that the countries that receive a lot have a little less economical. Again, roughly 60% of the budget does not come to us. Do we get what we need for our money? In the area of migration and security, there is a little extra, but still too little in our view. The budget also includes items such as pre-accession aid to Turkey. Even if Turkey will never become a member of the European Union, it will still receive support, not accession aid, but pre-accession aid. This is again about several hundred millions. So we do have some comments on the European budget. However, Madam Minister, my question is not whether you think we are for or against Europe. We are in favour of Europe. My question to you is not whether you personally think that the money is being well spent, because you will undoubtedly answer yes to that. My question to you is whether my rough calculation is correct. Do we win about 3 billion and do we first have to pay about 10 billion? It would be interesting to hear your insights about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u118	Madam Minister, our party notes that the consistent confusion of a pro-European ambition with an EU ambition is the guiding principle in the different policy papers of the purple-green government. Also, Minister Wilmès's note is not spared from this tone, as it puts a European ambition at the service of our interests at the forefront of its foreign policy. However, it soon becomes clear that this is aimed at a complete surrender of our sovereignty in foreign policy and security policy to the EU and NATO. It is not a story of European ambition, but of the uncritical and slavish transfer of our policies and interests to the EU elite in Brussels. This is immediately apparent in the Minister's intention to deepen and strengthen the internal market. We want it with the greatest emphasis in a way that the management of the internal market is a shared competence of the Union and its Member States. The Member States therefore retain the necessary sovereignty in this matter. The internal market is already an open free trade area without internal frontiers, which has already led to enormous problems with illegal migration flows due to the open external borders. In what sense does the Minister intend to deepen and strengthen the internal market? However, it can be guessed that this will again cost more national sovereignty in economic policy and border policy. As far as the Balkan candidate countries are concerned, the European Union has now opened the door. Even if such accession negotiations take a long time, it is only a matter of time before enlargement takes place. There will therefore be more European Union, with countries such as Albania, North Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia, Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, it must be made clear that these Balkan countries do not fulfil the Union's conditions of accession in the cultural, economic and democratic spheres. Even though these countries are trying to reform in order to become a Member State in the future, they will never really fit into the European model. Like Greece, they will generate even more wealth redistribution from north to south at the financial and economic level. As far as we are concerned, the further enlargements of the Union, in view of the failures of the financial crisis and the migratory flows that could start from the Balkan countries towards Western Europe, are absolutely alien and therefore avoidable. May I also point out that the Fleming is not waiting for more European Union? More EU means de facto more money flows from Flanders to the European Union, while the Fleming already contributes most to the EU budget net. Colleagues, the shocking Europhilia, which is the subject of Minister Wilmès's policy paper, it also becomes clear when the Minister expresses her deepest wish, namely the success of the Belgian Presidency of the Council of the EU in 2024. For a Belgian Minister for Foreign Affairs, it would obviously be preferable if the Minister had her deepest desire to defend the interests of our people in external relations. Our group is the least developed in transposing European directives into national policies. The aim is to achieve the highest possible transposition rate in order to set a good example for the Council Presidency in 2024. However, it is not the intention at all to regard EU legislation and its transposition into our national legal order as an end in itself. If European directives are not in conformity with the interests of our citizens, then we must strongly oppose them and urge other Member States to do the same so that the directives are not adopted. Once again, therefore, this is a completely uncritical surrender of sovereignty to the dictates of the EU's elites. As far as the Brexit is concerned, we have been in the last stage of negotiations for weeks. The debate on fair competition in the fisheries sector is still ongoing. However, there is no doubt that the negotiations are anything but flexible. Belgium has given out the key to the European Union, which is the only one able to negotiate with the United Kingdom. Especially Flanders will be most affected by the Brexit. Our business is already under a great deal of pressure from the covid crisis. A no-dealbrexit would be an additional challenge for our economy, for West-Flemish businesses, for employment, which depends on it, and even for our tourism sector. If no agreement is reached, will you have an emergency plan with your competent colleagues? Are the negotiations in the government not progressing smoothly, as there is even discussion about the distribution of European resources to cope with the Brexit? Wallonia, which will suffer a lot less from the effects of a hard Brexit, wants to bring in a disproportionate share of the funds. Madam Minister, you stress the importance of relations with the Maghreb countries. You say that dialogue should be initiated on socio-economic cooperation. If the latter is in line with the spirit of the Marrakech Pact and the EU Migration Pact, for which the current government is firmly committed, there is a strong suspicion that economic migration from the Maghreb is on the table. We, as a Flemish nationalist party, are of course opposed to this, because Belgium's absorption capacity has long reached its limit, and the challenges of integrating immigrants from these regions are still enormous, without any progress being made. Colleagues, in the coordinated approach of the foreign terrorist fighters who have landed in Turkey, our party takes a firm stand. We are opposed to any repatriation of Belgian Syrian fighters, IS widows and their children when they cannot be separated from mothers. Our diplomacy must then make every effort to avoid the extradition of Syrian fighters to Belgium by the Turkish authorities. Our party sees Syrian warriors, who left to fight on the side of the most barbaric terrorist movement in history, and are fully aware of the horror that the IS regime created in Iraq, Syria and all over the world, no longer as citizens to be compassionate about Belgium. They have risked their lives to combat all the fundamental values of our Flemish-European culture with extreme violence and are therefore no longer worthy of our care and assistance. The only solution for IS fighters trapped in Syrian and Iraqi detention camps is to suffer the consequences of their radical choices. Moreover, our country is not legally obliged to actively repatriate the IS fighters. That is not what we should be doing. Not only do they not deserve that, but they mainly pose a permanent national security threat because our judicial system is not prepared for such issues. After an average prison sentence of five years, these life-threatening terrorists are released and their freedom of movement can no longer be restricted. The consequences of the detachment of such individuals were recently seen in France and Austria. The step of radical ideas, which many will never renounce, towards radical acts has been taken too quickly. We believe that the lives of terrorists are by far subordinate to the lives of our innocent citizens. This brings me to the subject of Iran. Belgium continues to adopt an attitude of diplomatic openness towards Iran. We question any openness, diplomatic, political or economic, towards a country which, for no reason whatsoever, is holding people in a common prisoner exchange to get terrorists released, a country where there is no respect for human rights, a country which puts critical votes in prison without pardon or trial. My thoughts also go to VUB Professor Djalali. I hope that in this no news means good news. Iran is a country that poses a geopolitical threat to the region and a terrorist threat to the West. It is therefore the responsibility of the federal government to assess in future how it sees its relationship with a strict Islamic regime such as Iran, which we do not believe can be treated as a normal country. Last year, Belgium, together with five other European countries, set up the trade mechanism INSTEX, so that trade could be driven with the regime in question and the US sanctions could be avoided. My party was the only one in this half-round to oppose INSTEX. Now the majority, one year after the date, has found that the mechanism has failed and that Iran has failed to fulfil several commitments and has so unilaterally withdrawn itself from the Treaty. Madam Minister, the note also emphasizes the importance of defending universal human rights. However, it is not very concrete. We do not have much confidence in it and the ability and desire of the Minister to raise gross human rights violations on the international agenda is quite minimal. I am thinking in particular of forgotten dossiers, such as the South African farming community, the Tibetans, Hong Kong, the Uighurs, the Chinese Christians and religious minorities in Islamic countries, the Chinese attitude towards Taiwan and closer to home, the Catalan political prisoners and the crimes against the Armenian population in the Republic of Artsach. When the Minister talks about the defence of values and principles of international solidarity, it can also be expected to mention the issue of human rights in Islamic countries and dictatorships such as China by name. Not specifically naming and recognising a problem will always stand in the way of its solution. Turkey is another unnamed problem. At least a semi-critical sentence was found in the policy statement: "However, Turkey's relationship with the EU has deteriorated in recent years." In the policy paper, there is no longer even a critical attitude towards Turkey, but once again the attitude of dialogue and political dialogue with this loyal NATO ally is accepted. I would therefore like to make it clear once again that Turkey has not missed an opportunity in recent months and has not missed a chance to show that it is not a loyal partner, but, on the contrary, an ever-increasing problem. I refer not only to the great role that Turkey has played and is still playing in the riot between Armenia and Azerbaijan, but also to the recent blackmail policy, illegal gas drilling in European territorial waters, the continued occupation of Cyprus, persecution of Christians, the burning of churches, the lack of cooperation in the fight against illegal immigration and, not least, human rights violations on Turkish soil, even against critical voices, especially opposition members, activists and journalists. How many more examples have to be given to make it clear that Turkey, the important NATO ally, is really not a democratic country? It must be done with the treatment of Turkey as an EU candidate country. We therefore urge that the accession negotiations with that non-European and undemocratic country should cease once and for all. As far as the best service is concerned, it is only logical, in times of crisis such as the current covid crisis, to provide an optimal service to Belgians abroad. Regarding the language skills of the Belgian embassy and diplomatic staff, it is a recurring complaint that these staff often only use Molière's language, never the other way around. It is logical to ensure that the staff is able to use both national languages. Our group is also less enthusiastic about repatriations during the first wave of the corona virus. Moreover, we cannot get the impression that more efforts have been made in this respect for double-nationals. I would like to make one final point. You are talking in your policy paper about a contemporary FPS Foreign Affairs, fit for purpose. During the discussion in committee, I mentioned that I actually miss the employment of people with disabilities in your department. In any case, it is not explicitly mentioned in your note. Since the government does not meet its own 3% quota for the employment of people with disabilities, it would be a good idea if your department were to meet this requirement and make an extra budget available for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u119	Madam President, if you will allow me, I would like to add a few more things, in line with my colleague, who has, by the way, discussed a lot of valuable and important aspects of foreign policy. Madam Minister, you say that you want to give top priority to economic growth and job creation in your policy paper. You also want to attract more foreign investment through the upgrading of our international image while creating a level playing field for our companies to invest in other countries. You seem to be based on the traditional neoliberal free trade theory, aiming at as much free investment as possible between countries. This is, of course, a policy choice for which there is much to say, but we note that we have hardly any major multinationals in Belgian hands, nor do we have any more national ones in our strategic sectors. Because of our dependence on medical equipment, such as mouth masks and ventilators mainly produced in China, we have been able to experience this in a particularly painful way during the corona crisis. It is therefore crucial for our party to show more economic nationalism, on the one hand, through investment in our local economy and SMEs and, on the other hand, by re- attracting strategic sectors such as energy and the medical sector and by protecting our market from unfair competition from countries like China. Their companies are supported by state capital and are practically in the hands of the Communist Party. We have also seen that the trade balance with China is downright negative, as only 2% of our country's GDP finds its way to Chinese consumers, but our country imports twice as many products from China. China, however, has, not insignificantly in this debate, disregarding environmental and labour legislation, has industrial espionage, has devalued its currency and has a protectionist trade policy, although it can sell its own export goods in full. We therefore urge you, as Foreign Minister, to be very careful with regard to trade policy with China and foreign investment in our economy, in particular with regard to our strategic sectors. You are also talking about negotiations on an investment agreement with China, with a greater emphasis on reciprocity, and thus on better protection of our investments. As far as we are concerned, this is certainly a step in the right direction, a step of good intentions, although we fear that this will remain mainly rhetorical in practice, which will not be followed by concrete actions. Indeed, a few rules beyond what I have just said state in your policy paper that fruitful and balanced relations with China will continue. When we see that you and the Prime Minister are planning a policy that seeks to strengthen links with China, this is somewhat afraid that the naive and welfare-destructive Beijing policy is unfortunately not yet in its infancy. I'll just mention the safety aspect. I am also a member of the Defence Committee, so that drew my particular attention. It is immediately one of the most worrying expressions of submissiveness to the EU, as my colleague has just mentioned, in the policy letter with the vision of your foreign policy. Security policy is also an integral part of the Union's vision. In line with your efforts also for more European strategic autonomy, you encourage the High Representative of the Union to proactively promote, defend and implement European positions. In its view, decisions on the common foreign and security policy should be taken more by qualified majority. Colleagues, in this government's view, it means that the common security and defence policy, which is still largely intergovernmental and thus a right of veto for Member States to safeguard their sovereignty, becomes supranational. Belgium will therefore give up its sovereignty in foreign and security policy for a very large part, in favour of, of course, a weighted majority vote, in which large Member States such as Germany and France are increasingly putting their mark on it. It goes without saying that this evolution is very difficult for our party to accept and must be stopped. You are also talking about the commitments to the European Defence Fund and the European Peace Facility. You are talking about action in favour of external partners. Those two funding projects are also in the light of the common security policy I have just mentioned. It also creates financial dependence on the EU. This, too, deserves our strongest criticism. Briefly with regard to Turkey, which my colleague has already spoken about. You're still vague. You mention it in your policy, but as far as we are concerned, there is not enough opposition to Erdogan's destabilising and self-righteous action in the eastern Mediterranean, Libya, Northern Syria and the South Caucasus. Given Turkey's cavalier seul is playing in this, in various conflicts where NATO is not interfering, it can and should at least be questioned about its membership within NATO. A deconflict between Erdogan and Stoltenberg really weighs too lightly on this, which we would like to emphasise. We therefore warn against a very easy attitude towards the Erdogan regime and regret that you remain reasonably cautious in your policy vision, so to speak. You also referred to the nuclear agreement with Iran, but my colleague has already explained it in detail. We also express our concern about your support for a conditionality mechanism, which we have seen in recent weeks, linked to the rule of law as part of the EU's multi-annual financial framework, which has clearly proved to be a means of blackmail by the Union to force a number of Member States, in the eyes of the EU, to cross the arm and to align themselves with progressive EU ideology and possibly to force them, indirectly, to catch more refugees and to get more into line. In other words, when the money tap is turned off under the guise of respect for the rule of law, it is believed that these countries will fold, and this has become clear in recent days and weeks. It is a hypocritical system, and I really want to stress it, because Spain was not allowed by the Union for its undemocratic and repressive approach to the Catalan nationalists. It is extremely hypocritical and absolutely unacceptable, with the support of this government. We very much regret this and would like to make this point again. I would also like to say a few words about the World Health Organisation. Not only with regard to the EU, you take a rather uncritical attitude, but also with regard to the many mistakes and the sufferings of the World Health Organisation is not mentioned in your note. However, Belgium also supported an independent investigation into the WTO's approach to the coronapandemic. As far as we are concerned, the WTO is no longer a reliable institution, since China exerts a disproportionate influence through the WTO's Communist President, which led to the spread of pure misinformation with catastrophic consequences during the first phase of the pandemic. I'm finishing up, Madam Secretary. As far as we are concerned, your policy paper demonstrates a complete and almost slavish surrender to the EU's agenda, thereby undermining the national sovereign vision of foreign policy taking into account the interests of our people. There is no question of this sovereign approach. In view of the failure of the EU, Mr Loones already said that challenges such as migration, the coronapandemic, globalisation and Islam fundamentalism should be tackled effectively, our group seems to be insane to reward the Union with even more power. I can leave it at that, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u120	Madam President, I was wondering if I could answer the questions because we have an official delegation coming in half an hour from Armenia. I remain available for Parliament, but I cannot be in two places at the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u121	We have a change of schedule. Mrs Wilmès will now answer questions on foreign affairs. Then Ms Verlinden will take the chapter on Institutional Renewal with Mr Clarinval. Then, Ms. Kitir will answer questions on development cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u122	Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank you for your flexibility as President and parliamentarians. An Armenian delegation arrives this morning and you know, in any case, those following the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the importance of being able to discuss these matters. First of all, I would like to respond to the general comments on foreign policy. Yes, this is a pro-European policy. Our government is pro-European. Of course, we want the Belgian Presidency to go well. We'll do everything we can to make that happen. Our foreign policy is based on two major axes. The first axis is the firm belief in values, the values of the European Union and human rights. I will take every opportunity, in a bilateral meeting or in multilateral fora, to talk about values. The second axis is economic diplomacy. Many powers belong to the regions. I have made it very clear how important cooperation with the regions is in this context. Covid will have a very big influence and not just on our economy. We have an open economy and have every interest in attracting investors from abroad. This morning I heard strange things about our values. Talking about our values at European level would be blackmail and hypocrisy. That's not true. The values are set out in Article 2 of the European Treaty and are very important. The countries that joined the EU knew and knew the conditions under which this happened. For those who are interested, we had a discussion in committee yesterday about the values of the European Union and the difficulties that the LGBTIQ community may face in Hungary, for example. It's only natural that we say among friends what is really unacceptable. If that is not enough, we need to go a step further. That's the peer review, the Rule of Law Mechanism that's now started. Article 7 can also help us. It's not blackmail or a hypocritical system at all. It is a very important system that preserves our values. Secondly, as regards the way in which we will deal with the dossiers, I would point out that we do have partners. We also have partners who make it difficult. Yesterday, as well as during the discussion of the policy paper, we clarified how difficult Turkey is making matters. We want Turkey to be a solution to our problems and not the problem itself. That is very clear. However, it is always better to keep the dialogue open with Turkey or with other such countries. Without dialogue, we no longer have leverage to change the situation. That is exactly what we want to do. Diplomacy isn't about fighting, it's about dialogue, trying to change things. However, that does not prevent us from telling the hard truth to the partners and the other countries. Nor does it prevent sanctions from being imposed on those countries. We have imposed sanctions on Turkey through Europe. That could happen. However, I continue to argue that we should maintain an open dialogue with Turkey and try to maintain a positive agenda. Another point raised concerns dependence on foreign production. It is true that COOVID-19 made that point very clear. That was a problem for us. However, we are not talking about investment nationalism. We are talking about strategic autonomy, which is completely different. It is not a question of replier sur soi, it is a question of developing strategic autonomy at European level for different themes, such as health equipment, defence or industry. As far as China was concerned, it was very clear. Europe has also taken a clear position on the relationship with China. What's this relationship with China? The country remains a partner. It's still a partner we want to talk to, but not at any price. We ask for a level playing field; we ask for reciprocity; we ask that values also be valid in China. Those values are indeed a problem. In any contact with China, either through the European institutions or bilaterally, we address these values. Although Belgium is a very small country, Belgium is one of the countries that makes its voice heard most in talks with China about values. In that perspective, we continue to move in the right direction, knowing that it is not easy. I come to the Belgian contribution to the EU. Mr Loones, I was very pleased to hear that you are pro-European. After all, we hear too often: "Where is my money? Is it worth my money? I want my money back." It is then a little difficult to understand how European values fit into that story. It is true, however, that this costs money. Although Belgium is a net payer, albeit for a small amount, the European story is very advantageous for us. For example, the open market is a very big advantage for our small open economy. Furthermore, the presence of the institutions in our country has many advantages. So there is definitely a return on investment. The total amount given to Europe by the countries is very small compared to the whole budget. I am always surprised that I hear a number of people defend certain parts of our country here in the Federal Parliament only when they are talking about Wallonia or Flanders. This Parliament is federal and as a minister I work here for the whole country and the entire population, regardless of the place of residence or the language. So you asked, "Is it worth our money?" As I said, we are a small net contributor, but in return we will have access to the open market, while the presence of the institutions in our country is also advantageous. You also raised the difficult negotiations on the MFF. We have managed to increase the collection cost to 25%. We also set up the Brexit Fund and, at the last meeting with my colleagues, I stressed that these funds absolutely must go to the countries most affected. The money is not supposed to be distributed to everyone. In addition, account must be taken of the situation of the SMEs which will be very badly affected. In the MFF more money is actually provided but that is almost the quadrature of the circle. When I was Prime Minister, we had a debate in committee on the amount of money we had to give to the MFF. I was also surprised to hear about everything at the time, and the opposite. That's what I'm talking about. There was a discussion on whether or not we should continue to finance the old policies. In the opinion of the regions, the answer was certainly yes. The question of whether we should try to meet the new needs was also the response of the regions. However, we cannot do both, because if we do both, the amount goes up. You are right to say that the regions are the only ones enjoying more or even the most of Europe's funds. When we were looking for ways, moments or places to reduce the amount, for example by increasing efficiency, it certainly did not happen for the largest amounts, as you just mentioned, cohesion and agricultural policy. If you are wondering whether it is worth the money, it may not be directly at federal level, but certainly for the whole country. Well, we're just working here for the whole country. I have no problem asking for a contribution to the regions for the money we give to Europe, to reduce the share of the federal government in it, as the regions benefit most from the funds from Europe. However, I do not think that this is a priority at all. I still believe that from the moment a region is doing well, everyone will enjoy it, including the country in general. I think that's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u123	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. It's been a long day of meetings. In fact, I did not specifically ask whether you think the money is well spent and specifically did not ask for the whole of the European debate to start, but you do. I would be able to replicate this widely and widely, but I will not do so, out of respect for those Members who still want to speak and also out of respect for your fellow ministers, who also have a busy agenda with assignments and who really want to go to those missions more quickly. However, I would like to say the following. Your answer contained a passage on European values. I hope, despite the impression I had, that you were not looking my way. Thank you for confirming that this is not the case. I think I am the only one in this Chamber who voted for the start-up of the Article 7 procedure against Poland, so my track record is clear in that respect. Madam Minister, I also asked a question, and in particular do you confirm whether or not the calculation is correct that we need to put EUR 10 billion more in the pot to get about EUR 3 billion, which is very positive, back in a seven-year multiannual plan? You didn't contradict that calculation. You said this was well spent, but that was not my question. However, you have not contradicted these amounts. You didn't say my reasoning was wrong. I find it interesting that you have not contradicted that, because we have been discussing how and to what extent the money is spent all day and all night. Several parties say there's not enough money. They want to give more money to pensions, mobility, security or closed centres, they want to give more money to other benefits. Several parties are asking for extra money. You will have to forgive me, but I will remember today what you did not contradict. I will remember that this government is okay with sending an additional EUR 1 billion or EUR 1.5 billion to the EU every year, no matter what policy is being pursued. That money will therefore not be able to be used to resolve all the budgetary questions. So I'm still counting modestly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u124	Mr Loones, thank you for putting words in my mouth, but I did contradict you. I said that you should take into account the fact that we enjoy the single market. We are one of the European countries that enjoys it most. That's exactly return on investment. You cannot explain part of the budget without taking into account the whole story. The fact that the European Commission and the institutions are high-ranking in our country must also be taken into account. I will gladly give you studies that show how beneficial it is for our country. You can't just take some numbers and put them in somewhere and say that we're losing so much money. That is not a correct economic reasoning.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u125	Madam Minister, you are still not going into these figures, but you are going back to European policy. Once again, out of respect for your colleagues, I will not exhaust the debate any further. I look forward to the study you will give Parliament with the figures in it. I look forward to those calculations. Then we can discuss it further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u126	Madam President, Minister, you are talking about a dialogue. We are talking about a very one-sided dialogue. Where's the dare? The last European Council has once again been pointed out in relation to the Mediterranean. Turkey's nasty role in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict was ignored. Did that happen in order not to offend Erdogan because he would otherwise open the gates towards Europe? I have already spoken about blackmail policy, but that is what Erdogan does and continues to do with all his provocations. But no, financial support is being given instead, for example in the context of neighbourhood policy. Mr Loones, pre-accession aid is also being given to Turkey. You remember that from the European Parliament. Madam Minister, elected as a representative of the people in Flanders, it is perfectly normal to defend Flemish interests. The Walloon interests are already more than adequately represented in this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u127	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, you often talk about values and respect for human rights. You are, of course, selective, even now. Once again, you are not talking about the situation of the Catalans in Spain. You speak very little about religious minorities in China and Islamic countries. You're not talking about Taiwan. You are not talking about the very precarious situation of African farmers. We do not have that element in your explanatory statement. You are therefore selective in that regard. You also say that you are engaging in dialogue with a number of Chinese representatives on a very regular basis and very active basis, that you are addressing this in all possible ways. I believe that. That's what's gonna happen. However, I have to tell you that, after all the discussions you have and all the dialogue and negotiations, China does not seem to be in the dark. The systematic denial of human rights and democratic rights in a number of neighbouring states, Hong Kong, Tibet and the situation of the Uighurs is self-evident. I shall then come to one final point with which I shall obviously surprise you. After all, you do not seem to know that the Flemish interest is pro-European. We love Europe, but we are against this EU. That's a very different fact, but you have to want to see that difference. You are laughing, but there is indeed a huge difference between the two views. You confirm that your so-called EU dream is slowly but surely starting to crumble. That will continue. Get used to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u128	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? This concludes the Foreign Affairs chapter. As announced earlier, we move on to the chapter on Institutional Renewal, with Ms Verlinden and Mr Clarinval.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u129	Madam President, tonight and this morning we are discussing the budget, and now we come to the chapter that really interests me, the chapter on institutional reform. Just now I was able to talk to Minister Clarinval briefly in the corridors and he asked me what the link was between that chapter and the proposed budget. He's right. There is not much in the budget about institutional reforms, which may cast doubt on the importance that the government attaches to the issue. Dear Minister Clarinval, there is indeed a link, a very important one. In fact, institutional policy could be the solution to many problems in the budget. If you do your job well, Mrs De Bleeker's work will be a lot easier, at least when clear choices are made and when a large institutional paradigmashif is chosen. In short, this is an important issue which cannot be missed in the budget debate. That is why I insist on taking the floor briefly. As with the European debate on this matter, I do not intend to start a major institutional debate like that in committee. That's not what we're doing here. We are talking about the budget here. So I won't start with the plans for 2024. I want to talk about next year's budget. You do not have a special majority, but you have a simple majority with your government, which allows you to do business in Parliament. You have the opportunity and power to pass laws. I have once looked in your coalition agreement, in your policy statements and in your policy papers for institutional plans with a link to the budget that you can effectively do something with. It's five points. Firstly, the purple-green coalition agreement states that the federal government can make use of the opportunity to fill in its powers differently and to pursue an asymmetrical policy, so that a separate policy is put in place for Wallonia and for Flanders, or Brussels, where necessary, which is tailored to the specific needs, which are different in the different territories. The coalition agreement thus allows for a form of policy competition. We have found that no one from the ministers has used it, and we do not read about it in the policy statements. In committee, you announced that you would engage in dialogue with your colleagues. I am sure that you have not yet been able to do so with all of them, but I would like to ask you whether you have been able to talk to some minister about this. I am thinking in particular of the ministers responsible for ground-based powers, such as justice, police, mobility, aviation and energy. Why am I talking about ground-based powers? In my view, it is the easiest way to implement asymmetric policies for these powers. For example, a percentage could be agreed for these ground-based powers. One could agree to spend 60% of the mobility budget in Flanders, a percentage in Wallonia and a percentage in Brussels; you divide it up. Then the ministers with a closed envelope can know for sure what margins they work within and work more responsively with the Länder. What a positive budgetary impact that would have! So my question to you is very simple: did you already have contact with the ministers responsible for land-based competences? This can be relevant, given that this is the easiest way to conduct asymmetric policies and the easiest impact on the budget. Secondly, a few symbolic files can be cleared out by a simple majority. This concerns, for example, noise standards in Zaventem and 5G. I'm not going to talk about that right now, but I'm going to talk about the Senate. The articles in the Constitution to abolish the Senate were declared inadmissible. Unfortunately, therefore, we cannot abolish the Senate's term of office. What we can do is make the Senate a pretty much empty box. You can do it perfectly. You can do that, your coalition partners can do that, the government can help you by simply forcing the members of parliament in the Senate to limit themselves to the strict legal minimum of their duties in future. This means that the level of activity in the Senate, which is already quite low, will be much lower. That will have a positive impact on the budget, because it is not because we cannot completely abolish the Senate, that we cannot at least drastically reduce the Senate's budget. This now amounts to about EUR 40 million per year. So much can be saved if the Senate simply confines itself to the tasks to which it is legally obliged. That's perfect. The only thing that is needed is for you to tell your coalition partners and your parliamentarians to stop all the spielereis. That's not so hard to do. We've been doing that for a number of years in the Senate. Thirdly, European policy, which has just been mentioned, is linked to institutional affairs and budgets. Here is a specific dossier, namely the updating of the 1994 cooperation agreements to which you committed in your coalition agreement. These agreements determine who goes to European summits, the federal ministers or the ministers of the Länder. I understand that, after a whole night of negotiations, Flemish Minister Crevits, for example, has just concluded a European fisheries deal, which is very good for our fishermen. So there was a Flemish minister and that choice is good, because there is a lot of expertise there. Yesterday, then again, Federal Minister Clarinval was on the picture of a European summit on agriculture, while it is a competence of the regions and the expertise can be found there. Well, that too has a budgetary impact. The degree of knowledge that is brought to the negotiating table determines how much weight one can weigh on negotiation and how much one can gain. That's how it works in every negotiation. That is certainly how it works at European level. One has to sit at the table with the right knowledge. The Walloon Minister of Agriculture has much more expertise in agriculture than the federal minister. The Walloon administration can make calculations and simulations very quickly, when deals are to be made on European budgets, which is very relevant today, now that the multiannual financial framework is on the table, which is important in terms of agriculture. The sooner you update the cooperation agreement, the sooner you will be able to measure a positive impact on the budget. Moreover, I am not asking for anything new; I am not asking for anything more; I am simply asking for your own government agreement to be implemented. Fourthly, your coalition agreement also states that you will prepare a number of institutional legislative texts. They will be submitted to the government and then to the Council of State. We have already had the substantive debate on this in committee. What I want to talk about is your intention to cooperate with the Knowledge Centre and not build institutional administration. In this context, I urge the Secretary of State for the Budget to look for another pot of money, so that both competent ministers certainly have sufficient budget to address the necessary experts. I support in advance, should she decide to make all the money she can spare available to Mrs Verlinden and Mr Clarinval. This way they can surround themselves very well. Fifth, the Dialogue Platform is apparently a flagship of your government. However, I have not found a budget for this in the budget. In your opinion, this platform should lead to conclusions by the end of next year. It is not quite clear what will happen with that. It would be interesting to know what that will cost and how you will pay for it. Are resources entered in your budget or will you have to ask the Secretary of State for the Budget for additional money? Sixthly, I can be brief about cooperation with the Länder, because Mr Raskin has already mentioned the Brussels stadol in detail. Minister Gilkinet has already replied, but there is also a link with your budget. Let me explain why. Brussels wants to introduce a city toll, so it really wants to develop its fiscal autonomy and collect money itself. It wants to take responsibility for its own powers. That's interesting. Brussels receives a great deal of money for mobility and commuters; there are the Beliris drugs, the mobility dose and the commuting dose. Some points are anchored by two-thirds of the population, but if you talk to us about them, there may be a lot to do. You certainly have the authority to prepare legislative texts. Can you work on the abolition of commuting and mobility funds and the cessation of payment of the Beliris funds for mobility? After all, Brussels no longer needs these resources from the federal government, because it is going to collect funds itself. The Secretary of State for the Budget will undoubtedly be very grateful to you for that, because that means a few EUR 100 million savings in the federal budget. Of course, the drafting of the legislative texts will take some time, while Brussels will not introduce the city toll today. I am already asking that question so that you can finish the texts in good time and save a few hundred million euros on the federal budget in order to implement federal policy. Brussels can then celebrate with its own fiscal autonomy. One final point concerns the corona campaign on one team of 11 million Belgians. I didn't know who to ask this question to. The campaign seems to be about public health and so I could put the question to Minister Vandenbroucke, but she seems to be hanging out with the tricolore. There seems to be a hidden message, and so the question is an institutional matter. In any case, the Secretary of State for the Budget is also here, so if you do not know and Minister Vandenbroucke does not, then the Secretary of State can undoubtedly answer. I have a simple question: how much does the campaign cost? How much does that institutional medical campaign cost? Which budget is it paid for exactly? That is a question that I had already asked the Secretary of State for Budget in committee, but which still required research work. I repeat the question; I assume that this information has become available in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u130	I'm sorry, I have to speak to Mr Loones. It seems to me that the French-speaking and Walloon Minister of Agriculture has as much relevance as a Flemish Minister of Agriculture, since we have as much knowledge, even if they are less porcine and horticultural. It seems to me that he was there as a representative. In addition, one of the reasons why we have agricultural expertise - and you should think about it more often - is that many Flemish farmers have been settled in Wallonia since the Second World War.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u131	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u132	That's very good! When you talk about the return: "It takes 60% for Flanders and the rest, you only have to share it with yourself! Be aware that I am also working in cooperation in Benin. There, as in all African countries, there is a bit of a tribal side. We have the impression that it is a bit the same in Belgium: there are tribes that have to defend themselves. But, in Benin and despite the tribal side, the municipality that I am dealing with, for example, that of Djidja, which has very few macadamized roads, will benefit from investment in its roads. Why? Because the President of Benin, Mr. Talon, is a cotton seller and, in order to be able to sell it, he must go and get it quickly. He is therefore careful to equip the municipality of Djidja with macadamized roads to carry out trade. But, you see, of course, there are the Netherlands and England, but Wallonia is also a big customer of Flanders. You should not be scrupulous to see investments made at home, because it benefits you. We'd have to stop again and again...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u133	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u134	Yes, I do! "We need our share and then you deal with the rest!" When you live in a small country, you have to develop it in the most harmonious way possible throughout its territory because what is done right at home benefits you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u135	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u136	Good! So, express it differently, because I always understand wrong!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u137	Madam President, on the same line as Mr Piedboeuf, and this has already been discussed many times, I would like to speak after Mr Loones' remarks because the question comes back every time. This is his vision of Brussels. Mr Loones, you are systematically going back to the initiatives that Brussels is taking here with the smart car tax project which is on the table and which will be discussed tomorrow with the other regions. You do not deprive yourself of criticizing him and of seeing him as a barrier. In the Finance Committee, you come to say that it is a tax, that it will make Brussels a fortress, that it will cause commuters to leave Brussels. The objective is the opposite. I would like to take this morning's opportunity to remind you of some of the elements of this kind of ideas that come from your party. I quote one Bart De Wever, in March: "Considering is inevitable." I quote a certain Ben Weyts, in November 2017: "We are in favour of a smart mileage tax'. I would like to quote Mr Van Bossuyt, the East-Flemish N-VA list leader: 'The party will make the matter a priority after the elections'. What I mean, Mr. Loones, is that I want to reach out to you. Let us discuss it together to make it something intelligent for our citizens, to reduce traffic congestion and to improve the quality of life and the environment for all citizens of this country. That is the objective. Stop typing what one or the other Region does, be it Wallonia or Brussels! I have the impression that you agree with us on the substance when I read what your party colleagues are saying. Let's move forward together! It's a stretched hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u138	Firstly, I would like to begin by apologizing to Mrs Verlinden, who, I understand, has urgent appointments. Apparently, you are now in a mobility debate. If this had to be done, Mr Gilkinet should have done so earlier. I have absolutely not had a mobility debate here. It is a budget debate, Mr Vanden Burre, where I said that Brussels uses its fiscal autonomy and I find that interesting. I find that interesting in an institutional debate. I myself took the word 'Brussels pride' in my mouth. If you want to have a mobility debate on this, I will be happy to do so with you, but let us now perhaps respect the Minister's agenda, which I am very grateful to her for being here to have the debate. Secondly, I really need to talk more to Mr Piedboeuf, because he seems to be hearing a number of things wrong. He blames me for referring to the 60/40 key. Then he starts talking about tribal conflict, but that's a word I would never use, please. 60/40 is a key that is used for everything in this country. He is even in the special financing law and is used for all kinds of criteria. You're acting like this is the beginning of a tribal war. I don't know what doomsdays are in your heads or what you think is going on, but that's not how we do politics. In my speech I referred very explicitly to the Walloon Minister for Agriculture. I am not interested in whether that is a Flemish or Walloon minister, I am simply talking about the debate, where the competence is and who is being discussed. Then the strongest comes to the table, the one who has the most information and can also obtain additional information very quickly. Today it was Hilde Crevits because it was fishing, but next time it will be another theme and it will be a Walloon minister. That's what's being agreed. Since 1994, the Land Ministers have been sitting at the table for powers mainly in the Länder. None of that is phenomenal. All that has happened is that a Butterfly Agreement has been concluded, a sixth state reform, with the support of the ecologists, but the cooperation agreement has not been amended. You yourself have transferred powers to the Länder, but you have forgotten something. You have not thought about ensuring that competence is also addressed at European level. That has been in the coalition agreement for years and is now in it again. I don't think so. Why is that in your coalition agreement? Isn't it because you think it should be changed? How will you adjust it? You will adapt it to institutional realities. What is this institutional reality? The latest state reform you've approved yourself. You can see ghosts behind everything, but find those ghosts maybe in your own thoughts and please don't with me. I complement Brussels' pride, I congratulate Walloon pride, but I am talking too long and will now remain silent so that Minister Verdeinden can answer. Apologies, Mrs. Verlorden.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u139	Madam President, I would like to give you two things in advance. First of all, I would like to apologize for the odd hour and the way things are going. Madam President-in-Office of the Council, you can testify that I proposed last week at the Conference of Presidents to spend a whole day on Friday in order to properly conduct the debates so that we could stop at a normal hour each day this week. However, no party was in favour of this. So, if agendas are now confused or complaints are coming in about nocturnal sessions, please contact the elected members of your parties. It was not our intention to repeat the discussions in this way. Mr Loones, I would also like to say in advance that I am very pleased to hear that you are pleased that you are able to hold an institutional debate and that you think it is an important debate. I missed a debate on the institutional during the previous legislature. I am therefore very pleased that this omerta has been lifted. I know that we are not supposed to have a debate among ourselves during a budget debate. If, however, we can address Mr Vanden Burre, Mr Piedboeuf and Mr Loones, I think I can do so for once. I have not done so during the more than 23 hours we have been discussing the budget, except to refute some of Mr Francken's attacks in our direction. I understand his frustration. He has also indicated that it is his frustration that he cannot be in a government. I would like to correct that this was certainly not due to the election results, but to the partners in order to form a government. I understand his frustration. Maybe he misses his private cook. I don't know. Mr Loones, I have a specific question for you on this institutional issue. During the discussion in committee, you described your whole constellation of confederalism. With which partners do you intend to achieve this confederalism? This weekend I read an interview with your party chairman in De Tijd, in particular about his statement that there is no country to blame with the Flemish interest. There was a very interesting quote: "If you play it clumsy and follow house, garden and kitchen strategists, then you play in the cards of parties like Open Vld, who want to write a belgic story. That smells so bad for Brussels sprouts. We haven't seen that since the '60s, tous ensemble. The VRT is even going to make a Christmas show with 11 million, all bound by covid and the great belgician sauce over it." Mr Loones, your party chairman is absolutely right. Except he's wrong about who those house-garden-and-kitchen strategists are. This is not about the Flemish Interest, which has consistently supported more Flanders. It is the strategists of N-VA, who opted for a Community standstill in 2014. They themselves skilfully wiped out that support. Such a Community standstill had not been seen since the 1960s. I heard you describe the breeding ground of populism during the budget debate. I quote: 'Promising everything and not doing what you have promised is the breeding ground of populism. Beloftes, beloftes, beloftes." You said that less than 24 hours ago. I have not forgotten the many promises made in the run-up to the 2014 elections, Mr Loones. I could bring dozens of quotes with the concrete promises for a major state reform. Without that commitment, you wouldn't be entering a federal government. Without strong commitment, you didn't go into a recovery government. I really am not the only one who has not forgotten this promise, Mr Loones, those promises that formed the basis of your historic election victory in 2014, that promise of major state reform. Anyway, I had to get this off my chest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u140	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I can ask for the floor for a personal statement, but I will just reply quickly and you will be done with it. Mr Pas, I understand your point. I also found it particularly regrettable that we had a Community standstill in the previous government. The simple reality was that there was no institutional majority to do anything. The balance that we made at the time is the following. Traditionally, from the Flemish Movement, the strategy consists in asking for new powers. Since there was no institutional majority then, we tried a different strategy. The French speakers were demons de rien, so we could keep asking, there was no possibility. We have then opted for a different approach, by controlling Belgium more on its Flemish, more center right. On the basis of this strategy, we assumed that the French-speaking people would nevertheless become a requesting party for the division of some powers. I am sorry to have to tell you that it has become a reality. Indeed, last summer we had several months of intensive discussions with the PS, which made it very clear that the PS is tired of using Belgium against it. That is where the strategy has been successful. Has that strategy been completely successful? No, of course not, otherwise we would now be negotiating a Community agreement. This strategy was not entirely successful because the N-VA achieved a few percentage points too little in the elections. I respect the election results. Your party scored very well in those elections. That election result had a number of consequences. One of the consequences was that last summer N-VA couldn't sit strong enough at the table, didn't really have a leverage to break the situation. We can say a lot of profound things about this strategically, but that is the way democracy works. The votes, a certain number of seats, must be obtained, and then business can be done. I am actually proud to be a member of a party that gets its hands dirty and dares to try something new. Our party is also achieving results, because I notice that several French-speaking parties are becoming a demondor to do something about it. Of course, that is not exactly what we want, because the French-speaking parties obviously have their own agenda. We're gonna have to find each other in there somehow. It is the way it will have to be done: we will have to get our hands and our feet dirty. Well, I am a member of a party that dares to do so, and I like that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u141	Madam President, we have been working on the budget debate for 23 hours and Mrs De Bleeker and several ministers have been here for a long time. Colleagues, I would like to ask you to hold your coffee chatter with the evaluation of the 2014 and 2019 elections next door. Madam President, I would like to ask you to go back to the budget debate and refer the matter of the evaluation of the election results to a different date and place.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u142	Mr Vandenput, unlike you, I have been here for more than 23 hours. I have just said that it is the first time in this debate that a member of my party does not directly address a member of the government. We've had other discussions here in the last 23 hours. Mr Loones, you say you are proud of that strategy. However, I thought your strategy was that of support for nationalism. You like facts and I'll give you one. In 2007 there was a big Flemish interest with a small N-VA. Then all the surveys and polls showed that one in two Flemings was won for Flemish independence. That's an investigation from Sinardet. I can get it to you. In 2017, ten years later, 5% remained, with a large N-VA, a Community standstill and a small Flemish interest. Perhaps you can keep those facts in mind if you evaluate your strategy again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u143	Mrs. Pas, I'm out of a game of punishment for Fleming. I know what I stand for, and that's the least of my worries. Mr Vandenput, it is not appropriate to call a parliamentary debate a coffee chatter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u144	Madam Minister, Minister, Mr Vermeersch stressed in the general discussion that the government is spending EUR 2 for every euro it collects. That's not a healthy situation. Constructive as we are, we offer solutions. Mr Vermeersch spoke about the amendments tabled by my group, which amount to EUR 1 billion in savings. Instead of imposing even more taxes, rather than imposing new taxes, all of which have been discussed extensively in the last 23 hours, we want to save on other things. Not on our own people, but on the European Union, which has just been mentioned, on asylum, on Belgium and on the political system. With the latter two, I am fully committed to your area of competence. First of all, we want to cut the expenditure of the political system. That would be an act of political renewal. By deleting excess institutions like the Senate, for example. There is no constitutional abolition of the Senate, but you can put it on dry seed and finally take the first step towards further abolition. Secondly, we want to keep a great chastity in the cabinets and put an end to the irresponsible arrangement of staff for former ministers. Unfortunately, it has often been mentioned here, but the increase in the number of Cabinets and the maintenance of such irresponsible arrangements, despite the fact that they have been promised to be revised for almost ten years, is another EUR 1.5 million in the budget for that symbol of political self-service, for that system of staff for former ministers. We have tabled amendments on this subject, in the hope of getting rid of this old political culture and making savings immediately. Traditionally, our amendments also delete an even more obsolete system, the monarchy. I believe that, despite these times of crisis, it is clear to all that the donations to the many members of that royal circus may shrink. After all these years, I do not expect the government parties to suddenly support our amendments. To be honest, I have little hope of that, because your policy letter did not mention any political innovation regarding that undemocratic institution, the monarchy. I did not receive an answer to my question on a simple dossier such as the revision of the protocol order, in which the previous Minister for the Interior failed. So my expectations are not too high. You will certainly not expect an amendment to provide a budget for the installation of that ridiculous Dialogue Platform from my group. You know my opinion on that. I find that misleading. This drastic reduction in this margin of discussion is generating the opposite effect of what is to be achieved by a genuine citizen's participation. The government determines the main themes within the framework of Belgian federalism and subsidiarity, transfers, packaged as interpersonal solidarity, should not even be questioned. Can there be any questions about the excesses of these transfers? Can there be any questions about the ineffectiveness of these transfers? Can there be any questions about the lack of transparency of these transfers? You did not answer my question about calculating these transfers in order to be able to conduct the debate on an objective basis, because it seems that this debate should not be conducted. Hence my fear that there should be no questions about the finite nature of these transfers, let alone that initiatives will be taken to cut them down and put them out. I have the impression that, although this has been repeated several times in the discussion and that your policy letter also said that everything would be covered without taboos, the biggest taboo of the transfers remains intact. Instead of spending extra money on that Dialogue Platform, you can't save as much money on anything as on this country's inefficient state structure. You know my opinion on that. I am not going to repeat the discussion we have had in committee. I can only hope that you will step away from ideas of re-federalisation, which would go against the healthy course of history. There are a number of cases that cannot be accounted for, re-routing to the inefficient federal level. We are fully aware that Belgian recipes do not allow Michelin stars to be obtained, but that these Belgian recipes only cause acidic run-ups and food poisoning to the Flemish citizens. We will certainly support all your initiatives to further undress Belgium if the Länder are strengthened, under conditions, but you should not expect support for the opposite direction. As far as the special financing law is concerned, you replied in committee to my question in the affirmative that the financing rules will be reviewed. You have not yet indicated what direction that is going to take, but yesterday and today we understood during the budget discussion that there will be a fiscal reform anyway. That's how the finance minister made himself strong. We have already received an answer on the timing of this reform in the last few hours, but will these funding rules be reviewed during this legislative period or will their implementation, together with any state reform, be postponed to the next government? I also pointed out in committee that the comments made by the Court of Auditors on the special financing law should certainly be taken into account, namely that both at low GDP this year and at high GDP next year, which are the prospects, the amounts to be paid to the Länder will be much higher. Unfortunately, a Community which is still in the budget is the powers which have been transferred to the Länder for a long time, but in which the federal government still spends. Will we find it in the federal budget next time, or will the government take action to remove the expenditure that does not really belong at this level? I think I'm about through my questions and I'll, as always, do my best to end up positive. When expectations are low, it is easy to surprise me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u145	Madam President, Mr Loones has already referred to the place-based policy, the asymmetric exercise of powers, which is mentioned in your note. On the night of the government declaration, I asked a number of government parties on a number of occasions about their views on the regionalisation of care. At that time, I did not receive an answer or very different answers. I would just like to say a few words about the course of the debates we have had this night. I would just like to say to my colleague that 24 hours of debate is not a problem for me. I come from the healthcare sector, which has had a very difficult time during the covid crisis. The care staff has worked more than 24 hours. I didn't hear them complain. We Members of this House must therefore do our job, have proper debates and simply accept that such debates take a little longer. However, I would like to mention that aside. I have heard very different signals about the regionalisation of care, both before the policy paper was made and now in television studios. I hear all kinds of things and very different things from different party chairmen, all of whom are in your government. It is therefore rather difficult to understand what you are actually trying to go to. I have also repeatedly asked the question to my competent Minister, Minister Vandenbroucke, who has always referred to you. That is why it is important to ask clearly here today during the debates where you want to go. Will you work effectively within the current legislature, and preferably within the year, on further regionalisation of health care and further homogenisation of competences? In this connection, I refer to the special co-vid committee, in which we have heard very clearly from Professor Vlieghe that the killing factor of the corona crisis is the lack of foresight and rigour, but also, and above all, the fragmentation of powers or institutional lasagna, which we often talk about in that co-vid committee. So it's urgent. When I read your note, I'm concerned. After all, I read mainly about participation, research and analysis, while in the health sector there is just the possibility of working bicephal and preparing the division with the ministers of the Länder. Will you work on that? Will you work on that soon? Can you give me an answer to that? Madam Minister, Minister, you have a very noble mission. Many people expect a lot from you, especially when we look at the spectrum in Flanders. People really want to move forward. People want good care, tailored, when we're talking about health. The care actors also want to know where they stand. There's been an investigation in the healthcare sector. They clearly state that they no longer know who to target. That's gonna be very urgent. I would have liked to know the government's vision of regionalisation of care.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u146	Madam President, good morning to all of you, after this very long night. I will be brief in my answer and try to answer some questions. My colleague Mrs Verlinden will answer other questions. Mr Loones, it must be noted that asymmetric policy already exists. Some skills are already being exercised asymmetrically. We have, for example, the maximum amount to charge in the health system, as well as the reimbursement of the vaccination schedule. This is the result of previous reforms or the organization specific to Francophones. So we will continue along this path, where possible, always in close consultation with the relevant ministers. As for your question as to whether we have already started discussions with Minister Van Quickenborne on the justice aspects, we have not yet begun. But we are all prepared to do so, as we are going to hold broad consultations in the course of next year. My colleague Mrs Verlinden will answer on the symbolic dossiers. On agriculture and European policies, I would like to reassure you. As Federal Minister for Agriculture, I have already participated in several European meetings and European summits. The mechanism has been working for many years, in very good agreement with regional ministers. In the case of agriculture, there are only two regional ministers, Flemish and Walloon. There is no Brussels regional minister participating in the discussions because agriculture in Brussels is relatively weak. Mr Laaouej told me recently that there were still two farms in Brussels. In this area, this is going well. There are shared competencies, purely regional competencies and federal competencies. There is therefore a process of consultation. For example, this Tuesday and Wednesday morning, since the European debate on fisheries was taking place, and it dealt in particular with the problem of fishing in the waters of Great Britain, it was my colleague Mrs Crevits who handled all the negotiations, and that is normal since fishing is a regional prerogative. In this case, since it is the North Sea, this competence is exclusively Flemish. So there's no problem: I was there, but Mrs Crevits was speaking. I was attending this meeting because, in the afternoon, we started discussions on food security policy and agricultural labelling – which fall under federal responsibility and therefore fall within my purview. When we have to talk about federal jurisdiction, we always do so in consultation with the two regional ministers, so much so that the texts are prepared together. Since the European Union recognizes only the countries, it is therefore up to the Federal Minister concerned to speak on behalf of the Regions, who have previously agreed on the text in question. In the absence of agreement between the two regional ministers, I must refrain from commenting. In short, the system works well, and it's not new. That is why I am present at the European Summit on Agriculture, in view of my competence. Therefore, I assure you that it was not my intention to usurp those of Minister Crevits, which I congratulate on the successful negotiations that they have been able to conduct. With regard to the more budgetary issues and the platforms for dialogue, in good agreement with my colleague De Bleeker, I can tell you that we do not currently have a budget for this purpose, but that, if necessary, we will be able to ask for a small amount for this matter at the time of budgetary adjustment or during discussions on interdepartmental provisions. This would not, in any case, be a large amount. In any case, that would be possible in this way. Mrs Pas, with regard to future institutional reforms, I will not answer all the questions you have asked me, because it is premature to do so. However, I can reassure you from the outset that the aim is to achieve more homogeneity in the distribution of competences. In any event, this homogeneity research will have to respond to the complexity of this distribution, both in the health sector and in other sectors. Any skill distribution must recognize, at some point, that it has aged and evolved over time. I would like to make it clear at this point that the principle of solidarity is also reaffirmed in the government agreement. Finally, Mrs Depoorter, on the more specific issue of health care, an evaluation is planned here as well. This is also part of any serious examination of a situation. You have to evaluate it before you decide. I would also like to thank all those who express or express an opinion on the distribution of health skills through white cards or positions, as here. Competence in this area is already widely shared. The opportunity to share their ideas should be given to the relevant actors. Mrs Verlinden and I will take note of the conclusions drawn with great attention. I give the floor to my colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u147	Madam President, I thank all colleagues present for their flexibility in changing agendas and for their patience. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been pleased to witness your exchanges about the past and the analysis of what should or should not have happened in the wake of the previous elections. That is certainly an interesting debate, but I cannot get rid of the impression that there is still a lot to be said between you about who has now been able to contribute most to a better Flanders with which strategy. Anyway, I don't think that's today's debate. I have heard you both refer to a number of important and interesting dossiers that we have already discussed in committee and on which we have already agreed that there should be an important debate. Mr Clarinval has already referred to this asymmetric policy. Mr Loones, you asked if there has been any contact and if we could work with those percentages. I don't think we should make any preliminary assumptions in that regard. If we were to say that it is d'office 60%, it could also lead to anomalies. Above all, we need to create homogeneous packages that strengthen and harmonise all entities and not just say 'it's 60% and that's the end of it'. That may be easy to read, and that allows for simple debates, but I do not think that our structure would be served by that, and I also think that it would undermine reality. There are a number of other files. Mr Loones and Mrs Pas, you have both referred to it: the symbol file of the Senate. If we have communicated that we would start a debate on institutional reforms, we will, of course, also look at it. If there are no taboos, there are certainly no taboos on this, but I do not think you can expect us to have an exact financial picture of the budgetary impact of the Senate reform. This is precisely the subject of the debate, which room, what role it should be able to play. I am sure that we will certainly have the opportunity to discuss this later. You both referred to the Dialogue Platform. I've heard your opinion. In this sense, we have re-established part of the debate in committee in this plenary session. I refer to Mrs Pas who said that it is misleading and absurd. We have had this debate in committee and we should not re-enter it here. That choice has been made in the coalition agreement and we will do so in the best possible way to obtain as many ideas as possible in order to achieve the best possible decision-making on a very important issue for the future of this country. I think there is nothing wrong with it in itself, with all the reservations and circumstances that I have also explained in committee. Mr Loones, as far as the city toll is concerned, you are actually asking to take account of the financial impact already. I understand, however, that your party does not agree with that idea and that the draft has yet to be discussed. It would therefore not be very careful to outline the financial picture today in order to remove certain federal lines on that basis. This does not seem to me to be consistent with the idea that your party members have launched on this issue and with the fact that the debate on it still needs to be held. Mrs. Depoorter, you referred to health care. I do not know how well you envisage the text of the coalition agreement and the policy statement, but it is quite clear that the aim is to achieve a uniform division of powers. The aim is to organise care as close to the patient as possible without affecting solidarity funding. That seems very clear to me. A choice has been made in the coalition agreement that we are now going to work on. It is not the responsibility of this government that no constitutional articles can be revised today that would make that possible now. However, you can count on me to do everything within my power to set the course as quickly as possible in order to achieve those homogeneous and well-functioning packages of competence. There will be a debate in preparation for budget control. Of course, resources will be needed because I am not going to be able to organise that Dialogue Platform myself in my spare time. It is not intended to spend excessive money on this in the current financial situation. However, there is a great deal to be done with existing technological resources. We will make sure that a budget is available. Mrs. Pas, you referred to cutting in the cabinets. Last week I answered a question from Mr Hedebouw in Parliament. I think we need to see what we can do to make things better. There are some systems of the past. You mention a few things rather undemocratic. However, as long as no democratic majority is found to change certain things, that is essentially democratic. Otherwise, we can discuss the content of the concept of democracy for a long time to come. You mention this undemocratic, but if a majority is not found to change the old systems, I think it is democratic. Perhaps we should think about using the words correctly, so that there are no principles that, in my opinion, dishonor the debate? I would like to conclude with something I have already said in committee, which makes me think that sometimes we are repeating ourselves and not using our time here in the most efficient way. I have already said that we can take the revision of the Finance Act with us. This can be a result of the choices we make with regard to the state structure. The revision of the Finance Act is not the same as the tax reform. The debate on fiscal reform is being held with Mr Van Peteghem. In this respect, too, we must not put the horse behind the cart. I would like to confirm that with great pleasure, but that question was actually already answered in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u148	A number of replies, Madam President, Mr and Madam Minister. About the asymmetrical powers. I am particularly pleased, Mr Clarinval, that you confirm that this exists today and that you wish to continue along that path. The fact that it exists proves that it can and that it works. That's very good news. It means that this technique can also be applied in other areas. Thank you for also confirming that you will discuss this with your fellow ministers and that the trajectory will be continued. I would like to say a few words about what Mrs Verlinden said about dividing federal budgets. Take mobility now and Minister Gilkinet who would divide his budget into percentages and negotiate with the Flemish minister, the Brussels minister and the Walloon minister to spend those budgets. You say, Mrs. Verlinden, it's more complex. I'm actually thinking the opposite, I honestly think. What you're actually doing with that is triggering a process of pre-federalisation in order to start homogenizing. I use mobility as an example and ask you to follow my reasoning. Mobility is a good example, because there are pieces and pieces of authority everywhere. We saw this in previous legislature, with one trial after another of Flemish Minister of Mobility Ben Weyts against Federal Minister of Mobility Bellot before the Council of State. It was not clear who was competent for what and it was one procedure after another. This dynamic must be abandoned. One must homogenise the powers, make them one package with one clear owner who is responsible and can be addressed to them. How would one do that ideal? The ideal scenario is by a special majority, a hundred votes, a power shift with a special law and amend the special financing law, but that is not possible because there is no special majority. Does this mean that we cannot prepare for homogenisation? That's perfect. In fact, one can homogenize the competence in the facts, which can perfectly, without legally anchoring it all. This may be because Mr Gilkinet is making his signature a federal signature, but de facto gives powers to the Flemish, Walloon and Brussels ministers to determine what investment is being made. One could say very specifically: there is so much money invested in the railways, and they are somewhere, in Flanders, Brussels or Wallonia. There is no discussion about that, that is not like social security, those tracks will always be in the same place. The boundaries are what they are. They will remain what they are, for the record. Minister Gilkinet could talk to Minister Lydia Peeters about the mobility budget for the part of the tracks in Flanders, to see what investments she wants with regard to rail policy and with the Walloon Minister for Mobility to ask what investments he wants with regard to rail policy. This would allow de facto the possibility of homogenising powers. Let me give you another example, for Flanders. De Lijn's offer could be more easily tailored to the SNCB's offer because it would be in a package with one responsible minister. Is that a legal division of competence? No, we do not have a hundred votes. But in the facts a homogenisation has been achieved, because the competence of railways is combined with the competence of De Lijn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u149	Madam President, Mr Loones, I am glad to be given a lecture on the functioning of the asymmetrical powers, but that is not what I said. You asked me to offset the financial impact of this homogenisation and asymmetric policy already today. I have said that it is a complex fact and that we cannot simply work with percentages. You tell us here that it is possible and that there are traces in Wallonia and Flanders. I'm glad I came this far. That's not the problem, that's not the concern. In the context of this debate, I merely said that I cannot give figures today. I would violate the truth if I said that we would have a 60% percentage on everything. That is also what you yourself said. Let's not misunderstand each other. I know that system. I know what you mean, thank God. But let us have the debate on these powers at another time and not when we are talking about the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u150	Madam Minister, I would like to apologize if I misunderstood you, but I think I heard you say that the strategy with percentages would be contradictory with homogenisation. That's what I understood. That's why I'm replying. Otherwise, of course, I wouldn't have given that reply, with all due respect to you and your file. Mr Clarinval, I understand that you were at that agricultural meeting because it was about a federal issue. There's nothing wrong with that. That's just the point I wanted to make. We should look at exactly what this is about and then make sure that the right person sits at the table. If it's about a federal theme, there's a federal minister. At the same time, we know that today this cooperation agreement is not entirely in line with the powers that have been shifted with the sixth state reform. We know that. You know that, because your own coalition agreement states that this needs to be adjusted. There is a system of concerting when it comes to federal powers. This is particularly important when it comes to the exclusive powers of the Länder, of course. That is what this debate is about, and that is why that cooperation agreement needs to be amended. You say it yourself, it's in your own coalition agreement. Unfortunately, agriculture is a limited competence in Brussels. There was one farmer, situated along the Emperor Karellan. I don't know if that man was actually the Minister of Agriculture himself. That would have been fun. My point is that this needs to be adjusted in the sixth state reform, and that has finally been consistently pursued. I have learned from your answers that there is not yet a budget for the Dialogue Platform and that Mrs Verlinden is arguing for a modest budget or that a modest budget is sufficient. I believe that a very modest budget is enough, but that is the political debate. The coalition agreement states that there will be a debate on the Senate, but that there will be no preliminaries. That's a missed opportunity. If steps can be taken more quickly and the Senate's agenda can be lightened more quickly, thus saving on the Senate's budget without abolishing it, we could immediately help Mrs De Bleeker with her budget. Then we could save on the Senate immediately. I can imagine that Mrs De Bleeker could use a little budget. It is even more a missed opportunity if possible because the Senate has really become a symbol of discarded taxpayers' money. We may differ a little bit about that, but that is what a lot of ordinary citizens think. We are not the only ones advocating the abolition of the Senate. This has already been discussed in committee. Mr Calvo also said that he himself was in favour of the abolition of the Senate. If we really talked about that, we could go faster. Then Mrs. De Bleeker would probably not get a Christmas present, but a Valentine's present. That could be quick. You want to wait and see what Brussels is doing with the city toll to adjust your policy accordingly. That's not a illogical answer. However, we certainly must not be late. From the day Brussels introduces that toll, the logical consequence should be that Brussels will not be paid twice for the same. No one can find that illogical. If Brussels itself invents a system for the taxation of commuters, then the federal level should no longer pay compensation for commuters. It's either one or the other. My question is, in particular, whether you can follow up and put people to work in time to overcome that inconsistency, so that we do not go after the facts. Mrs De Bleeker, I had also asked a question about the cost of the campaign. Can you tell me?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u151	I did have that answer ready for you here. Already on 23 June 2020 there was a budget agreement for the campaign to encourage the 11 million Belgians to follow the corona measures together, with the aim of overpowering the coronavirus. I do not know if that was specific to that campaign, but a budget was foreseen for a campaign in the context of the fight against the coronavirus. That was provided for by my predecessor. On 3 November, the request was made for the possibility of extending that budget for three months. That is a commitment credit of EUR 3,067,350. I cannot tell you now whether that money went completely to that one campaign, but that is the budget that was available. This was distributed as follows: EUR 2,067,350 for 2020 and EUR 1 million for 2021. I do not yet have any information as to whether this budget has already been devoted to this particular campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u152	Thank you for the answer, Mrs De Bleeker. We will wait for further refinements to find out what has actually been spent. I hope you will forgive me, but I would like to make a substantive political statement on that campaign. The fact that I wasn't sure who to point the question to actually says enough. Many people I address are wondering what exactly this campaign is about: is that a campaign about corona or is that a campaign for Belgium? I think this is a missed opportunity. At the time of a crisis, when we want people to follow the corona measures, there should be no ambiguity about this. One should have a focused campaign, everyone should know immediately what it is about. The fact that this was the subject of a debate in the media for days proves my point. This was supposed to be a non-issue. That could have been for example: we call on everyone to be vaccinated, or we call on everyone to install the Coronalert app. By the way, I installed it myself, and I call on everyone to do the same. I hope that there will be a campaign around that and that the ambiguity can be eliminated. I am terribly sorry, but combining the 'Belgium' brand with 'one team' is not an obvious message. It is not an obvious message today to bring a story that 11 million Belgians form one team. I am very sorry, but at the moment it is not even a clear message that the twenty ministers are one team. I note in the budget debate that it is going there, but I do not think you are quite there yet. In recent months I have seen a party, Ecolo-Groen, who likes to make some familiars. I also see a minister here and there who doesn't really know whether he's a rush hour, the trainer, or the coach, or whether he's gonna push Minister Michel aside. I also see a party chairman whistling from the stands, perhaps not for Royal Francs Borains this time but perhaps for FC De Croo. You want to create the atmosphere that you are a single team, try to do so, but I believe that in these corona crisis times communication messages are best pure and do not give rise to political debate. The proof that this debate has been there says enough. We must ensure that taxpayers' money is used usefully to fight against corona.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u153	I would like to reply briefly. If I am not mistaken, another planned plenary session should start in one minute. My reply contains five elements. Firstly, I am very glad that there is not yet a budget for the Dialogue Platform in this budget. In the meantime, I hope that you will refrain from doing so and will work on real civic participation, such as preparing to adapt the Constitution so that referendums can be held. Secondly, Mr Loones has already mentioned the Senate. It is indeed a missed opportunity. Your answer has been heard here for 15 years, and we hear from many parties that they are in favour of the abolition of the Senate. I can only conclude that the Senate is already over the phase of palliative care and that the therapeutic persistence is inconceivable. The budget must be used to make a first move towards its abolition. Thirdly, I did not receive an answer to my question concerning the powers that have been delegated to me. I am sure they will be discussed later. I would advise you, Mrs Verniden, to consult your party colleague, Kris Peeters, on the powers that have been delegated to you. Not the Kris Peeters we knew in the Michel government, but the Kris Peeters who was Flemish Prime Minister between 2007 and 2014. At that time, unlike other Flemish Prime Ministers, he made a point in front of the federal government that the powers under the federal budget should be transferred. Fourthly, you say that I took the word 'undemocratic' in relation to the arrangement for former ministers' employees, but, unless I do not remember what I said during the 24-hour meeting, my point was that the federal governments have been announcing since 2011 that they want to change that arrangement. So there's a majority for it. They're announcing an adjustment. It is said in words that the scheme will be changed, but the actions will not follow. That is what I wanted to charge, and with the amendment in question, I wanted to link actions to those words. I don't deal lightly with the use of the word 'democratic'. I used "undemocratic" when I was talking about the monarchy. I think that nobody doubts that this is not a democratic institution, and I think that you and I know very well the difference between democratically elected and non-democratically elected. Finally, I am glad that you have already answered my question about the cost of the one-shift campaign, Madam Secretary of State. Now I do not have to wait for the answer to my written question to the Prime Minister. I'm not too happy that millions were given to that. Mr Loones really has to go along with that: if we want to send a binding message in a never-seen health crisis, then we should not hang it from a pro-Belgium message, because that is not a binding message and has an opposite effect. I do not think that this measure is wise at all. Can't people see for themselves that that's not a good idea? I don't know anyone who's seen posters from the one-shift campaign hanging from windows. In this respect, the campaign was as successful as Mr Loones's Community strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u154	Madam Secretary, your answer was clear. You talked about striving for, working towards and about the purpose of. But that is not an answer in itself. In a sentence, you have made it clear that nothing concrete will happen. So our patients in the field will not experience any of that. There will therefore be no concrete step towards regionalisation of care before 2024. I find it extraordinary to hear that from you, as your party is defending the regionalisation of care. It seems to me that you will come to the shortest conclusion in this respect. Zorgnet-Icuro, as you know, has made it very clear that it is urgent. If you analyse and look for a very long time, as your colleague Mr Clarinval said, we will not notice anything on the ground. I would like to return to another statement by your colleague, namely that this is already an asymmetrical competence, that we are already so far away. Do you know what you're saying? In the middle of the covid crisis we discussed for weeks with then Minister De Backer, his then colleague Minister De Block, who just entered, will be able to confirm this about who was responsible for the triage centers, Flanders or the federal level. At that time Minister De Backer didn't even know which competent excellence of the Flemish level he had to call, so it went. It then came to the conclusion that the rental of a container falls under federal jurisdiction and the purchase of a container under regional jurisdiction. So at the peak of a sanitary crisis, the federal minister didn't know who to target. So the asymmetrical division of powers doesn't work. There is therefore a real need for a very clear approach to regionalisation. The same was done in connection with the recent task force for vaccination. The first few weeks were mainly discussed about who will do what and who will pay what. The Secretary of State for the Budget can testify: there has been such a long debate that no funds have even been included in the budget, because people did not know who would pay how much. Madam Secretary, you are suggesting that this is in the coalition agreement. Yes, it says that it is the intention to homogenise responsibilities packages and identify what will be regionalised. But I wonder where cohesion is in the government, when I find that at least one coalition partner recently submitted a priority bill which clearly aims at federalising health care. To what extent is that consistent? I am making a point, and that is that neither the Fleming nor the Waal will have a tailor-made care before 2024. I am very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u155	Mrs Depoorter, you give the impression that you are paraphrasing me, but you are not doing that correctly, and that is not proper. I didn't say things couldn't change until 2024. We will work on that. That is in the coalition agreement and we will implement the agreement. The only thing I didn't do is put an exact date on that. I've always said I don't want to make promises that we can't concrete. I think your party like no other knows how annoying it is to make promises that one cannot keep. By the way, what did your party do for the homogenisation and communitarisation of health care when it had government responsibility? You paraphrase me completely wrongly with your accusation that no work will be done on the care of all Belgians, Flemings, Walls, Brusselsers and German speakers. I ask you to conduct the debate with nuance and listen carefully to what is being said. That's the only way we'll understand each other. Of course, the crisis has shown that we need to change things, but let us work now and not debate who has put forward what deadline, and you certainly know, as no other, that promises in this sense are not always true.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u156	I absolutely agree with the latter. Let us work and not debate and analyse and debate again and set up a consultative body. We must now regionalise that competence. I don't see you doing that. You have said very nicely that the articles have not been opened. Mr Loones has made it very clear that by working bicephal you can perfectly prepare without those articles being open. You're saying we have to work. I fully agree with you, but I will ask you again in 2024 what progress you have made for our patients on the ground and how we can move forward with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u157	Colleagues, let me come back to that campaign of 11 million Belgians. You see a great campaign for Belgium. Of course, it depends on the glasses that make you look at them. I saw a very concentrated football team on the field as a team. It depends, of course, on which eyes one looks at and what one wants to see. That amount is therefore true for all campaigns relating to corona and not just for that campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u158	Ecolo-Groen has just been addressed by Mr Loones, so I would like to respond briefly. Mr Loones and his party try to see cracks and cause cracks in this government team at all costs. I'm just finding that this isn't working. All these attempts fail. It's slipping off us like duck water. For example, there was much to do about immediate carbon tarification and carbon taxality. There was then a small debate about the word 'immediately' for a day or two. It was enough for us to dot the i and explain that carbon tax is a fight against global warming. That is in the coalition agreement and the policy plans. We will do so as soon as possible in consultation with everyone. After one or two days, that fire was gone. You don't dent in a pack of butter. I do not know the government's assessment of the 11 million Belgians and one team poster campaign. I didn't put out that poster because it was too small. He didn't stand out enough from my window. One team in the fight against corona is logic itself. That's patriotism, cohesion, cohesion in a country. There's nothing wrong with radiating that. Your attempt to ridicule and ridicule that is almost touching. She just can't do it. It is self-evident, it is happening in every country of the European Union. Coherence is used everywhere. The government team is showing itself as a strong unity and the population is called for a wave of solidarity. There's nothing wrong with that. In your cynicism and your negativity, I am personally not going anywhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u159	Madam President, Mr De Vriendt, I am pleased that you recognise the power of nationalism and patriotism. You're a Belgian patriot. That's wonderful. I'm a Flemish patriot myself. I note that we agree today and recognise the community-building power of nationalism and patriotism. That is a beautiful and once again a wonderful result of the current budget debate. Congratulations. Secondly, Mrs De Bleeker is right. Every campaign is like this. It depends on which glasses one looks at. However, I hope you are not insinuating that it is only N-VAs who have made drama about the campaign... I see that you are now indicating that this is not the case. I would just like to point out once again that there has been something going on and that there is some doubt about the intentions. The fact that the issue has been in the media for days proves that my remark has not been taken entirely out of the blue. Long live patriotism, for you perhaps the Belgian but for me the Flemish!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, does this allow us to close the Institutional Renewal package? [[Oui]] Thank you. We will thus close the meeting on Wednesday 16 December 2020 to allow the services some technical adjustments and, if possible, we will resume the meeting at around 10.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u161	Madam President, I have a practical question. Am I to understand that we are now starting on Thursday's agenda? So, after the technical break, the debates will resume in the second thematic round?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-plenair-ip078x.u162	We will continue the discussions. The agenda clearly states "the possible resumption of the agenda of the meetings on Tuesday and Wednesday". We will continue the agenda. We just have to, technically, move on to Thursday's session. This requires some manipulation. A quarter of an hour's rest for everyone. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, December 17, 2020 at 10.30 a.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Thursday 17 December 2020 at 10.30 a.m.
