ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u1	First, there will be an introduction by each of the ministers and then we will take a tour of the various groups. It was allocated eight minutes for the groups from two members present and six minutes for the other groups. Then there will be the ministers' answers and a second round of questions or replies. Some of you have introduced questions and it is important that you take the floor so that they are considered to have been asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u2	Mr. President, I'm going to start. I have prepared a presentation that can be made available to members. I will give an overview of the various aspects that have also been put forward by Members: testing, medicines, personal protective equipment, medical devices and tracing. The latter is the responsibility of the Länder, but I have requested information through the Inter-Federal Committee so that you too can have access to it. I want to start with the part testing. Right now, we're testing relatively much. You can see the graphs and statistics here. You can see that we have carried out more tests over the last few days, both through the classical laboratory circuit and through the federal platform that is now giving back support to the various clinical labs and taking over 3,000 to 4,000 tests per day with the good flow and capacity utilisation of those labs. So one still has a relatively large test. I've also listed how many tests have taken place in the last two weeks. These are the last full figures I can show you for the different provinces of the number of tests and the number of positive cases. We have seen an increase in positive cases over the last few days. Until recently, the percentage was below or around 1%. Meanwhile, in most provinces it is around 2 %. In Antwerp, even 3% of cases are tested positive. That remains relatively low, which indicates that we are testing widely. We can see that the numbers are rising. This also makes sense if we know that more and more infections are being detected. How are we testing today? We have a very broad testing strategy. You can find this on the website of Sciensano. We test all the symptomatic people. That is everyone who falls within the case definition and it is very broad. Anyone who contacts his GP will be tested at the GP or in a triage centre. If there appears to be a positive case, then there is also very fast testing around those persons. This is primarily done by contact tracing. The symptomatic and asymptomatic high risk contacts shall be tested. Travellers returning from a red zone are required to be tested. They are also very often asymptomatic people, if they test positive. People coming from orange zones are also strongly advised to contact their general practitioner. Many people returning from an orange zone want to be tested and are also tested via the GP. As regards collections, regional authorities are competent. Agreements were made to ensure that, if a positive case is discovered, the coordination doctor can immediately decide to test the bubble of that person or an entire rest home. There is always a discussion with the coordination doctors on what needs to be done. That is also established in protocols of the state entities. Care personnel returning from vacation will be tested. People who came in through hospitalization and left the hospital are also tested. Those are also very often asymptomatic people. There is also a recurring question of random testing. The strategy applied by some countries – such as Luxembourg – has been the subject of lengthy discussions in recent weeks and has also been discouraged by experts. Thus, a person who has been tested on Mondays and who comes into contact with a contaminated person the next day or the next day is not taken into account if we apply this test strategy. Our strategy is different. I think it is smart, on the one hand, to minimize the threshold in order to allow everyone to report to a general practitioner for testing and, on the other hand, to extend the tests to these people as far as possible, with the aim of identifying patients infected but asymptomatic as soon as possible. As for capacity, on the first graph you can see that we go to about 20,000 tests a day and that until the end of August there is a certain operational test capacity of about 30,000 tests. Then, every two to three weeks, the possibility of 5,000 tests per day is added. So we are systematically building up the test capacity, which is also necessary, not only now that we are seeing a number of outbreaks and the general figures are rising, but certainly also in view of the autumn. Sciensano has calculated that 50,000 tests per day will be required. At peak moments there is even 70,000 tests per day. How do we deal with things? We've been consulting with both clinical labs, machines and reagents suppliers and with a number of partners from the federal platform to streamline everything, so that on the one hand, the clinical labs make investments themselves, so that they can increase their capacity to 30,000 to 50,000 tests per day, and on the other hand, the federal government invests extra in those clinical labs to build additional capacity, so no longer in parallel circuits. It is also necessary to examine with suppliers how the necessary stocks of reagents and consumables can be constructed for the purpose of carrying out the tests so that they are sufficiently present. For example, in recent months large orders have been placed for swabs and today we have enough swabs on our territory to effectively put the high test capacity into practice. What issues are there today with regard to testing? In recent weeks, a number of triage centers have been closed down. The general practitioners have worked hard over the past few weeks and months, but as the virus spread less rapidly, a number of triage centers have closed in recent weeks. There is an agreement with primary care, which is a regional authority, to keep one triage centre open for every 100,000 inhabitants. This agreement has not been respected everywhere and so we asked the regional authorities again last week to maintain that volume. Triage centres will be opened again in the next few days. There have already been re-openings in Antwerp, where a very strong peak in a very short time forced the general practitioners to ask people quickly. First-line care must, of course, be further supported by the involvement of nursing staff, students and others. In this respect, too, we have made every effort in Antwerp over the last few weeks, but we can see that this may be necessary elsewhere. With this I have given an update on the testing. For drugs, AFMPS is still in charge. Different devices have been taken to ensure that there are sufficient drugs, including drugs essential to the treatment of patients with VOCID. In addition, each hospital has a stock, for which a permanent monitoring has been put in place with suppliers and a model has been created to anticipate future needs as well. On the basis of this model, one buys and stores a stock of the various medicines. Of course, the different clinical studies launched a few weeks ago, a few months now give results, which are published day after day. As soon as a scientific study is published, we do a monitoring and analysis. If necessary, some medicines are taken into care that may be useful in the control of VOCID-19 and the treatment of patients in hospitals. We also have (...) medicines (...) we ourselves strategic stock. Some of our factories are currently manufacturing certain medicines. I would add that control must be exercised over the export of certain medicinal products. For suppliers, there are mandatory quotas. Large orders or large stocks that are available from pharmacists must be reported. If we are actually in a second wave, we must reactivate the controlled distribution of some drugs, according to distribution keys. This worked well during the first wave: there was never a stock break for the drugs. It is important to guarantee VOCID-19 drugs for chronic patients. We are busy with the doctors to determine the needs to organize a controlled distribution in this area. A very large stock of personal protective equipment has been built over the last few weeks at federal level and we have organised that federal stock according to a number of defence lines. A first defence line was to build a strategic stock among the care providers themselves. That is the federal decentralised strategic stock, which is now about complete and includes 87 million surgical masks, 87,000 facial protections, 4.5 million aprons and 40 million gloves. These resources have already been distributed today and are in the hands of the first line of aid workers. They can appeal to that strategic stock if there is a need for it again. We have asked them to maintain this strategic stock constantly so that they can always have that buffer. This certainly applies to the surgical masks and gloves, which are readily available on the market today. In addition to the first line, the regions are also in the process of purchasing. At our level, we have created a federal strategic stock, which currently includes 31 million surgical masks, 9.5 million FFP2 KN95 masks of good quality, 7.5 million aprons and 55 million gloves. Those are solid figures and the stock is further supplemented with deliveries that we expect in the next three to four weeks. The deliveries you see in the second column, 95 million surgical masks, 23 million FFP2, 7.5 million protective clothing and 30 million gloves, will end up in our federal strategic stock by the end of August. We have made a very clear agreement that the carers themselves will be responsible for the purchases that have to be made today and for creating a strategic stock that is sufficient for three months of peak capacity. This is essential in order to ensure that there is sufficient decentralised stock. The governments can then function as lenders or last resort. If the need gets really high, it can be delivered from that stock. The picture is complete with a solidarity stock, which is formed with orders placed by both federal and regional entities. With this solidarity stock one can respond to the needs on the ground. These are 11 million surgical masks, 2 million FFP2, 265,000 facial protections, 3.5 million aprons and 24 million gloves. Regional authorities have also established a strategic stock specifically for their target groups and delivery within their competences. In the RMG a protocol agreement was made on who will deliver what when. The agreements on this are clear. In that respect we now have some comfort, especially compared to a few weeks ago. As far as medical devices are concerned, we have made a patient model based on the needs of a hospital patient, which should allow for proper monitoring of stocks. A basic buffer stock was also built up for 30 days of treatment and 450 withdrawals per day. A pool procedure is followed, at the request of the hospitals, if there are needs. There is also an urgent procedure. Existing circulars on reuse, alternative manufacturing and guidance remain online and remain in force. Some have already been stopped, but they can be reactivated, if necessary. A specific question was also asked about oxygen therapy. In recent weeks, we have facilitated a group purchase of 2,500 supplemental oxyconcentrators at the federal level. We facilitated it and negotiated it. The suppliers eventually bought themselves. Today there is an additional capacity available in the system. It should meet the potential shortages, including in the outpatient care sector. I'll finish with the tracing. These are the slids of the inter-federal committee. Here are some key figures. We see index cases. For each patient tested positive, we see how many people are contacted, how many do not respond to this call, and how many do not want to communicate their data. There are about eight out of ten people responding. There are 10% of people that call centers cannot reach. And 15% of people don't give information. For index cases, you see here that the number of contacts each case gives to call center is variable, but it revolves around four named contacts. We also made a comparison. In the Netherlands, apparently, it's 2.7. Our figure may appear low, but on the other hand, it is higher than that of a neighbouring country. It is important to continue the contact tracing. I have seen that, in the Regions, there are publications and small information texts on television for the people contacted. I believe it is important to increase confidence in this system. For high-risk contacts, 85% of people are contacted; 5% are not contacted. It can be seen that a large part of these people are contacted directly when an index case appears. If people cannot be contacted by telephone, there are also local teams. People are in the field to contact people. One can see that half of the people are contacted by mobile teams. Half of the people are not contacted. Staff are strengthening their efforts in the field. We have also worked on the flow of information. This is essential in order to organise contact detection in a good way. We had determined that a number of labs did not report daily during the holiday period. Of course, this cannot be done: if we have results, they must be forwarded as quickly as possible. The RIZIV and Sciensano have contacted the labs again to show them what to do and what is expected of them. Once that information is in the database, it must of course be transmitted, via Sciensano, to the call centers and the contact tracing. We do this several times a day to make sure that that information is up-to-date and people can be called directly. Feeding the database and the quality of the data was also an issue. Agreements have been made to optimise and improve the quality input from the regions. The information coming from the labs is now also streamlined and optimized. The question remains, of course, how local initiatives can be used, alongside the call centres. There have been positive answers, I know about Antwerp and Kortrijk, but I suppose there are other cases. It then looks at how local GPs can provide information, do contact and source research, thus enriching the system. Of course there are also the incoming and outgoing travellers. For them, a Passenger Location Form has been created, which will be mandatory from 1 August and will be digitally available. At the moment it is already available via a web form or a print and those forms are picked up when people land in Zaventem. Then I come to the latest state of play on the app. You can see the preliminaries here. As you know, the decision was taken on 21 July to award the contract for the development of the app to a consortium of companies and universities. This consortium will do this development. A test environment will then be started in August. A few weeks ago, I outlined the outline of what such an app should look like in my opinion. The basic cutlery follows largely the same specifications. There really is attention paid to privacy, connectivity, ease of use and other things. The aim is to adapt the German open-source model to Belgian usage, to be tested in August and to launch that application in September. That is the information I have received from Mrs Karine Moykens from the Inter-Federal Committee. Mr President, these are the most important figures and points of discussion in a nutshell. Perhaps there are specific questions, but, in my view, this can be sufficient as an introduction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u3	Questions will undoubtedly be there. We'll listen to Minister De Block first.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u4	Mr President, I agree with Minister De Backer. We meet again unexpectedly soon, since everyone expected the second wave only by winter, or perhaps in September or October. Not only here, but also in other countries, it comes faster than expected. The increase in the figures is everywhere, but especially in Antwerp. So we're in that second wave. In Antwerp they make every effort to dive them by drastic action. We focus on two axes. The first is the dimming of the infections.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u5	Madam Secretary, you're only half visible on the screen. Can you center that something? There's a photographer in the hall who takes pictures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u6	Anything for photography, Mr. Chairman. We focus on two axes. That is to say, first of all, we need to reduce the contamination as well as possible, by means of drastic measures, so that the second curve remains as flat as possible. Secondly, we must ensure that our health system can handle a second wave. As far as the first axis is concerned, you are aware of the decisions taken by the Security Council last week and yesterday to stop the emergence of the second wave. Local governments are also involved in curbing local upsurges. Yesterday, the National Security Council met, and also the Governor of Antwerp, Mrs Berx, and the Acting Governor of West Flanders, Mrs Martens, were present. The possible local and national measures were discussed for three hours. They then returned to their respective crisis cells. There are problems mainly due to social life. That is why far-reaching measures have been taken. Those measures are not just taken. They are mainly based on social life. Last week it was reported that visitors should leave their details to the catering industry. That data shall be kept for 14 days. If there is a problem, the contact trackers can find out who to contact. The closing hours of the night shops have also been reduced to 22 hours to avoid a shift to the night shops when the catering shops close. It's been reported on the premises before. They became a little pseudocafés. Yesterday, most of the measures were taken regarding our individual family contacts. Those contacts will be drastically reduced from tomorrow. Yesterday I tweeted that we should not make the same mistake as we did last time and still organise parties today, because the measure does not start until tomorrow. I hope that signal was heard. The social bubble was reduced from tomorrow until the end of August. The number of participants in the events was also reduced from 200 or 400 to 100 or 200, depending on whether they were indoor or outdoor events. Similarly, we will reinvest in telework and precautionary measures during shopping. Once again, only one person may go shopping, possibly accompanied by a minor child or by someone because one needs guidance. That's where it gets tighter. The shopping time is also limited to half an hour. There are exceptions, for example when choosing a kitchen by appointment; this is not done at half an hour. More stringent measures have been proposed, according to Celeval's opinion, involving the virologists. The emphasis has always been on reducing the risk of contamination by fewer contacts. What we cannot stress enough is that safety measures or the six golden rules must be followed: washing hands, keeping your distance, covering your mouth and nose when you cannot keep your distance, contact a doctor when you have symptoms. I always said it's a vacation for a lot of people, but not for the virus. The virus is everywhere, also in its own garden and home. We need to be careful. I'm gonna ask you not to have any corona parties. To keep the curve of new infections flat, the holes will have to be closed quickly. The first line of defense is testing and tracing. We support the federal search for contact by the Länder, because we know from the last time that this was necessary. Minister De Backer has already shown us which data collection we now own, with more information than in the past on how contacts with high risk persons and others are going and how many agreements ensue. We have all settled this by means of a cooperation agreement which must now be concluded by the Länder as quickly as possible. This significantly shortens the flow time of the information and allows the contact trackers to work faster. There are already some quick wins. For example, Sciensano does not send the information to the contact trackers once a day, but several times a day. Furthermore, the labs are able to transmit the information almost in real time. There are still accelerations planned in this respect. Everything is meant to buy time so that the contact trackers can get to work as quickly as possible. Tracking is also constantly improved, so that not only the patients at risk, but also the others, can be identified and notified as soon as possible. It is now also possible to call back after a missed call, with which one would be informed that one may have been in contact with an infected person. One can then say what it is about. That wasn't the case before. This is where the results are getting better and better. I come to the second line of defense. The second line of defence is a good system of control and management of the epidemic, which allows federated entities to act quickly and effectively. The different threat levels are activated as soon as certain thresholds are exceeded, and each level is accompanied by specific actions. A control tower receives information from different organizations, allowing us to have a real-time view of the situation at all times. There are the mobile teams of regional inspections that can be deployed if necessary, including in the event of an epidemic in a collectivity such as a rest or residential care centre. It is also the vaccination strategy against viral infectious diseases such as influenza and VOCID-19, which we have planned and complemented with concrete actions. It is, of course, a little premature to talk about planning for the COVID-19 vaccine because it is not there yet, but it is a work that needs to be done. We all hope the vaccine gets there soon. Around 200 research groups in the world are looking for a COVID-19 vaccine. What's gonna happen first is flu. The High Health Council gave an opinion on the priority groups. We have, of course, based on that. We want to prevent the annual flu epidemic from imposing an additional burden on our health care. We have managed to secure half a million additional doses of the flu vaccine. That was very difficult, because the production of the flu vaccine cannot simply be increased. Thanks to the relatively good relationship in previous years with the producers of flu vaccines, who also have a market registration in our country, we have managed to secure half a million additional doses. We also signed on to the European tender, but there we only have a message from a possible paediatric vaccine, but not from a vaccine for adults. A distribution and priority plan for the flu vaccine is currently being discussed with the relevant stakeholders and healthcare providers within the FPS Public Health. We are already drawing up a vaccination strategy on the basis of the recommendations of the ECDC for COVID-19, so that we can roll them out immediately as soon as there is a vaccine. We have also committed ourselves to giving the European Commission a strong mandate to negotiate with potential producers to ensure the purchase of future COOVID-19 vaccines. It is particularly important for a small country like Belgium that we should be able to participate in these negotiations at European level. There is someone who follows up all the discussions and reports of the study committee and reports directly to us. The second axis is about preparing such a health care system. We've listed how we can benefit from what we've learned about the virus in the meantime. Last time, it was pretty unknown how that wave was going to go. They work with models and Sciensano works with a number of virologists, but also with statisticians, to know if that second wave behaves differently, whether it is worse or less bad and whether other people are affected. So there is a moving insight, because the virus is only 200 days old, which means that it still needs to be learned. That requires a learning government. Here too, inter-federal cooperation is the code word. The first line of responsibility lies with the Communities and we are helping from the federal level by helping to finance the deployment of care personnel in the triage and test centres of the first line. So we pay the care staff but the infrastructure is paid for by the Communities. We felt that it had added value to restart the already partially completed triage centres, as did the test centres of the first line. During the first wave of contamination, it was found that the enormous effort to release more than 2,300 ICU beds was sufficient to provide the necessary care to all the infected patients. We've reached 66 percent of the peak. I also want to maintain the very good collaboration between hospitals. The first wave showed that this system worked very well. Another important initiative is the strengthening of rehabilitation services for COVID-19 patients. Some people have been hospitalized for a long time and need multidisciplinary rehabilitation for their recovery. We ensure that this is possible and that the rehabilitation services and physiotherapists receive a proper remuneration for this. So that's settled in the meantime. Mr De Backer mentioned the decentralised rolling stock of protective equipment. Mostly with first-line workers, but also with hospitals, agreements are made on the strategic stock, which they now have to have for three months themselves. What we are delivering is a strategic stock for those who need to supplement it if they are to make use of it. A solidarityary interfederal strategic stock has also been created. You've seen the numbers. That is, of course, a dashboard, which we now have and which will be kept up to date. Such a stock is a dynamic fact, business is going away and business is coming along. As you can see, orders are also planned there. The first wave of contamination also stated that continuity in mental health care is highly needed. There is now a need to effectively transform additional financial support into additional care. We want everyone to be able to reach the care providers they need. Our caregivers also need support. It's a bit of a taboo to see caregivers ask for care, but that time seems to be passing. It's really the time, given the stress they've experienced and the capacity they've shown, to further expand the healthcare provision for healthcare professionals. We are. Hospitals, for example, will be able to recruit additional staff for a year to provide additional psychosocial support for staff. We also strengthen activities of peer-to-peer initiatives such as Doctors in Emergency and Doctors4Doctors. We also invest in the support of pharmacists for medicines and medical devices with the FAGG. Together with the Medicines Agency, we have anticipated some points in recent months to ensure that patients and care providers do not face shortages of essential drugs or medical devices throughout the crisis and until the end of the year. The availability of blood and the unstable blood products is a critical link in both planned and non-planable care provision. We'll watch that carefully. When national emergency planning took effect last time, ordinary services were interrupted and there was less need for plasma and blood products. The hospitals are still working on regular care. We are doing everything we can to ensure that hospitals do not have to phase out their COVID-19 hospital interventions too soon. There is now a catching-up movement of the care that was postponed. We must ensure that continuity can be maintained as long as possible. Hospitalisations are rising slightly, but we do see a very different age profile in people affected by COVID-19. That's more like 20 to 40 years old now. Those patients are sick, but they need to be less hospitalized. Last time, the average age of the hospitalized people was over 60 years old. We are preparing other measures. We want to expand training opportunities, which will allow us to invest elsewhere in the capacity of less sought-after service staff and thereby spread the workload among more people. We must learn and continue to learn from this crisis for the future. The Risk Management Group will analyse and update the contingency plan. We also want to clarify governance so that, in the event of a future crisis, it is clear to everyone who can or should do what. At this stage, the federal level still supports the Länder. The interministerial conferences held weekly or several times a week contribute to this. As always, these conferences are very well prepared by the FPS Public Health. Like all countries around us, we will face a second attack of this pandemic. This second wave is coming sooner than expected. It is now important to work hard together with the field of work and the other governments to break the second wave. That is why the National Security Council has taken all the drastic measures. Press conferences take place three times a week, but Sciensano offers daily information. The figures are expected to rise for up to two weeks or more, now hard and then less hard to move to a plateau. It is expected that the measures that have now been taken should be able to break the curve. That's what the virologists tell us. I hope they're right about that. However, it is, of course, once again a great concern for the population and the care staff, which some would have hoped would have lasted until after the holiday. They would have been able to recover physically, but also mentally.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u7	Mr De Backer, would you mind sending your PowerPoint to the secretariat? Then it can be distributed to the members. I now give the floor to Members. The political groups with two Members present are given eight minutes' speaking time, the other groups are given six minutes' speaking time. Of course, that time should not be used up, as time is limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u8	Mr President, Minister, Minister, thank you for speaking to us during the recess. The circumstances actually asked for it. The most important thing now is to detect new fireplaces in time and nip them in the bud. That's why these tests are so important. However, I am getting a lot of signals that it will take a long time before the results of the tests are known. Fifty to sixty hours is no exception. Of course, that's bad for tracing. Where exactly are the problems? Is the department responsible for the quality of the labs at Sciensano following this? Has a dispersal plan been drawn up to enable rapid action to be taken and this to be eliminated? If we make the comparison between Flanders and Wallonia in terms of contagion rates, we find that there are more infections in Flanders. Could that be due to underreporting in Wallonia? Do you have a visual on that? I have just received a table from Minister De Backer, but perhaps it would be useful to express it as a percentage of the population that has been tested, in order to get a clearer view of it. The same applies to the lower figures reported in Brussels. There is also concern about this. There is a fear that there will also be an underreporting. Is this being checked? Are efforts being made to reach all sections of the population? In the meantime, what's the status of the tracking control tower? That was a federal initiative to detect real-time impacts. Is this now completely taken over by the cities and municipalities and was this project cancelled? How are we supposed to look at that? There's also a lot to do about the superspreaders lately. Have they been mapped? Do they know their profile? Are they people with no symptoms? Is specific communication provided to alert them to this danger? Another point about communication is quarantine. I think it is necessary to make it much clearer what quarantine means, to whom this applies and for how long. After all, I have the impression that there are a lot of misunderstandings about this. Are there any further directives on this matter? Is more targeted communication provided for those groups where infections are higher, for example young people and certain immigrants or other specific communities where a higher level of infection is detected? In relation to the care providers, there is probably consultation with hospitals and doctors, but is there a view on the staffing, because we are now in a holiday period? Can they handle it for sure if there are more hospitalizations? A further concern is whether general practitioners have in the meantime been paid for the work they have done in the triage centres. I have one last question. What about care providers working in areas where there are additional measures, such as Antwerp? For example, I got questions from dentists in Antwerp, they work with aerosol production. Should they follow certain measures? Were guidelines tailored to your needs?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u9	Madam Minister, Minister, thank you for being here. As regards the tests, Minister, at the last meeting before the recess, you informed me that there was a stock of 1 million wipers. In your schedule here it was about 70,000 tests per day for 21 days and further about 50,000 tests during the flu season. So a few million wipers are soon needed and I am told by the general practitioners that the wipers are distributed per 10. Is there a problem at the labs? That is what the general practitioners are told. Can we not have them order a larger number? After all, that would be much more convenient. As far as the medication is concerned, you say that steps have been taken, which, of course, is good. What kind of medication is it for local production? Has there been an investigation into the paracetamol that was a bit of a commotion in the Netherlands? You also said that the export restriction is still in place. Have you discussed this with the pharmaceutical companies? This seems to be a problem for the many pharmaceutical companies in Flanders who employ a lot of people. In the pharmacies there is currently a problem with the chronic medication. You say a solution is being sought, but I still had patients this morning who are really looking for chloroquine. They're rheumatic patients who need 100-mg jell-O. We've found a solution for them. Have you been aware of any such problems? As far as the PPEs are concerned, the physiotherapists have informed me that they have still not received protection. You also mentioned a large stock of FFP2 masks, but it is strange that the general practitioners say that there is still a problem with this. They do indicate that you gave them a nice supply of the other protective equipment. At the last committee meeting, I talked to you about the shots you bought. Do you have an answer to that? Is there a shortage of shots? These are the 400 million shots bought. As far as communication is concerned, I would like to know exactly what is going on with the family and the bubble. The five people in the social bubble, are those the same as the ten people in the event bubble? There was a commotion after the National Security Council: Minister Jambon said something different than the Prime Minister. What's this all about? Can you give me some clarity? Why didn't you at the National Security Council last week follow the experts' advice to close the open bubbles? I would also like to have an answer to that. Madam Secretary, thank you for working on a vaccination plan for both flu and COVID-19. I find that very positive after my many questions and after the question from the APB last week in the journal. That is very good, but I would like to have the concrete effect of that. How will you phase? Will you make me do that? You add 500,000, and that's very good, but that only covers the risk groups. Will you make registration necessary, also by the occupational health services? Will you impose mandatory phasing of risk groups and patients before 15 November? With regard to the COVID-19 vaccines and the European negotiations, what is the key? What's the price? What guarantees do you have? Finally, you mentioned the support of the pharmacists. The implementation KB for the law on the inaccessibility that we approved in December is not yet in force. Steps were taken in terms of digitisation, but by when can we expect this? This is very important in the context of COOVID-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u10	Minister De Backer, you mentioned the specific levels of contagion. Is that information also available in connection with people returning from red or orange zones? Maybe you said that, but I didn't hear it. Is the contagion rate higher there? With regard to the care staff, I can only congratulate you on a great deal of work today. You didn't just provide a financial boost. You have also announced that you provide psychological support for the care staff in the care institutions. I'm fine with that. I also think that the problem of protective equipment is reasonably under control. The only thing I hear from home nursing is that gloves are still too short. That is what we said at previous committee meetings. You said that we should contact Professor Pardon, but he never answered the questions of home care. I have a number of questions about the measures for the province of Antwerp. In itself, I think it is a smart measure to reduce social life and not economic life. The virus isn't just gonna go away, so we better learn to live more in a safe way. There are some questions about the masks in the province of Antwerp. First it was said in the media that they give a false sense of security and that the level of protection is quite low. Can you clarify why they are being promoted so fiercely now and not in other countries like the Netherlands? Wasn't it considered to work more locally in the province of Antwerp? I'm from the Kempen myself. With us, the infections are rising, but they're still under control. There is a feeling that we are being shaved along the same lines as Antwerp, which affects our catering industry, which is already struggling. We have questions about the provincial measures, because people can travel to other provinces. Spending the night elsewhere is not recommended, but is not prohibited. Events are forbidden and fitness centers are closed in the outskirts and Antwerp. How do we prevent its inhabitants from coming to the Kempen and increasing the level of contamination in the Kempen? Mouth masks are not mandatory in sports clubs, but they are when one goes jogging alone. If you only cycle, a mouth mask is mandatory, but if you drink a pint, you do not have to put on a mouth mask. One has to go shopping alone for up to 30 minutes. It's okay to meet with five to ten people. Can we clarify this? Then we'd better explain that to the people too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u11	Madam Minister, Minister, thank you for answering questions here during the recess. Minister De Backer, over the past few months we have talked very often about the production of mouth masks, among other things, in our own country. It was just one of the problems that we were too dependent on imports. Can you give us an update on this? What about production in our own country? Is that on schedule? Can Belgian entrepreneurs be taken away soon? My next question may be about regional competence, but I would ask you to do so. A few weeks ago, the subject was raised in committee. You said a communication campaign would start to increase confidence in the contact tracing system. Maybe I'm not in the target group to get trust in that contact tracing system, but I still don't see anything about that campaign. Could you give us a little more explanation? I had also submitted the following question in writing, but I shall now put it to you. How can we know which medicines are available in the strategic stock of medicines? Has an approach plan been developed for medicines that are about to expire? This should prevent the loss of a stock of materials. Mrs De Block, I would just like to mention the resolution adopted last week in the Flemish Parliament, even though ninety-five points mainly concern regional competences. Three points deal specifically with cooperation with the federal level, which are certainly important at this stage. Firstly, the resolution calls in particular for greater flexibility and exchange of medical staff between hospitals and residential care centres. At the moment the residential care centers seem to have everything under control, but some difficulties were reported during the first wave. Are you or your cabinet going to work on this in the coming weeks and are you going to roll it out on the ground, given that there is a great deal of federal authority here? How will you deal with it soon? Secondly, it was reported in the Flemish Parliament's committee that the switching centres, specifically of the regions, did not really work. Instead of further developing the switching centres, they believe that we should strengthen the hospitals even more. The switching centres are intended for patients who no longer need to stay in the hospital, but who are also unable to go home. Can the hospitals cope with these patients if the switching centres are no longer used, as far as they were used during the first wave, even if the hospital occupation is increased? Thirdly, the resolution also deals with the structure of crisis management and suggests very concretely integrating the GEES into the RAG and the RMG. How do you see that? Have any steps been taken to that end? You also mentioned the triage centres today. If I understood you correctly, you'd think they'd be best rebooted. That's a shared competence. The infrastructure belongs to the regions and the staff is paid by the federal government. If it seems right to you that these are being started, what is the planning for the next few days and weeks? Last week they were rebooted in Antwerp and volunteers were recalled from their holidays. What are your further steps to prevent the triage centres in other provinces from being reopened? I would like to hear you say that we are a learning government, that the virus is only 200 days old and that we have learned a lot from it. That is a very nice attitude, which I would have liked to see last week. Last week, the experts said it's going in the wrong direction, that the number of infections is rising exponentially and that we need to limit the bubble. Last Thursday, the National Security Council didn't have an ear for that. Five days later, when it became clear that anyone who was doing a lot of graphics was right, the National Security Council had ears for it. It seems to be too late, as if five days have been missed, when that time is so needed. Yesterday it seemed as if good measures had been agreed on at the National Security Council, but when the ministers came out, it was about bubbles of ten people, then five and then ten. People don't remember. I heard Professor Van Ranst thrillingly on the radio at night and stressed that the number five had to be withheld. I don't know where that 10 comes from now, where that communication disorder is coming from now. I heard the colleagues of the N-VA asking for a good explanation. Above all, we must convey the message in order to close the bubbles and limit them to five.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u12	To complete what my colleague Barbara Creemers said, I will go back to the tests. Yesterday, at a press conference, Mr. De Backer, you responded to the journalists who were being tested for 17,000 people a day. However, at the Sciensano site, we have been around 8,300 tests a day since the beginning of July. At this level, your numbers are not correct. You are announcing today that you will increase capacity by the end of August to 30,000 cases per day. This capacity was already in the range of 30,000 to 45,000 tests at the time you set up the federal platform. The problem is that it was never used, as the criteria were too restrictive. At this stage, we can still see that the criteria, although they have evolved, still do not allow testing on a large scale. We need not only a testing capability but a real testing strategy. This is partly a question of criteria. For example, why not test more widely all people who are asymptomatic, in clusters where an outbreak of VOCID-19 is observed, as is currently the case in Antwerp? It is also a question of the redeployment of places where we can test, such as sorting centres. Indeed, many sorting centres have closed because there were no longer enough caregivers and because the number of cases had decreased sharply since June. It would really be necessary to re-launch these sorting centres that could be useful in testing. A testing strategy is also a coherent policy in the territory. It is noted that each hospital has its own policy for the return to work of medical staff returning from red and orange areas. That's not correct either. There is a need for an identical national strategy in all hospitals. I would add that it is also a question of means. Moreover, what about the salivary tests that have been carried out by the University of Liège? Are they going to be part of the device? What measures are being implemented to shorten the time frame for test results? If the people tested know that the tests come back very quickly, as is the case abroad, they may be more likely to give their contacts, which would allow for a much more effective tracing policy. You say the number of tests is higher because the number of cases is higher as well. However, our goal is to increase the number of tests with asymptomatic people to ensure that the number of cases decreases. I'd really like to hear your opinion on this strategy. I would also like to return to the issue of communication, which my colleague has just mentioned. I believe that we have lost the support of many people because of the lack of clarity in the communication. What measures are planned at the federal level in this regard in the coming weeks? In my view, it is time to take the time to explain why these measures are being implemented, so that everyone can adhere to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u13	"The epidemiological situation in our country is not alarming, but we must pay attention to it," said our Prime Minister last Thursday. On Monday, the Commission expressed concern about this situation. Madam Minister, yesterday you referred to the beginning of a second wave which, in your opinion, could be worse than the first wave. There is absolutely nothing reassuring about this news. The experts were already convinced of this and had been sounding the alarm for several days, especially in the light of the explosion of contamination observed in Antwerp, a situation which could of course be repeated elsewhere if we do not take adequate measures quickly. However, you did not seem to want to hear the recommendations of the experts. Several of them have, moreover, made it known loud and clear, to the extent that they are probably at the origin of the early meeting of the National Security Council. Last Thursday, we had the impression that there was a gap between politics and the scientific world, which you tried to bridge this Monday. Minister Clarinval, for his part, said that you had this time listened to the experts' recommendations to the letter, so that you could not be blamed for being too lax in this regard. But what a waste of time! What a loss of energy too! And what an impact, above all, for the citizens and for their adherence to the measures that you place on the table, measures that you soften, that you harden, that you multiply. Today, we are faced with harsh measures, especially for those who have tried to follow the rules and recommendations and who, in the end, do not see the results of their efforts. But did you really go to the end? Will these measures be sufficient to contain the second wave, particularly in Antwerp? Are you still in charge today, or are you, in part, discharging your responsibilities to the mayors, certainly ready to assume their responsibilities, without you giving them the means or directives to act effectively and consistently? Last Thursday, you decided, suddenly, that local authorities and mayors can intervene at their level to take additional measures if they deem it necessary. That's good! We know that they can have an important role to play with citizens, since they have closer contact with them, and with whom they have a relationship of trust. We saw how indispensable they were in the distribution of masks to those who needed them, whereas at the time, the federal – it must be said – was pedal in the semolina. But beyond this autonomy, now granted to the mayors, I would still like you to confirm that we are still in a national leadership of the crisis in order to avoid this second wave at all costs. It is now up to the mayors to determine the public places of high attendance where the wearing of the mask will be mandatory, they to determine the events that must be cancelled or not, they to determine the local containment measures to be taken. I would like to understand how the federal government actually supports local authorities in its missions and how it continues to ensure coherence in crisis management. Indeed, we find ourselves with a latitude left to the mayors, but without clear guidelines, without clear instructions and without clear obligations to them; with what as potential consequences? Of course, there are disparities in decision-making, such as lack of precise information on the sites of contamination, sufficient scientific support to assist them in their decision-making, disparities in the measures that could be taken in a similar epidemiological situation, disparities in the sensitivity of the mayors, whose decisions may be displeased by the citizens; and citizens who will no longer know what to do depending on whether they are in a particular municipality. So we see the limits of this autonomy. At the conclusion of the National Security Council, no decision had yet been taken for Antwerp, which, according to the Prime Minister, "recognizes a significant epidemiological outbreak". This is obviously incomprehensible and, in this context, I would like to know whether there is accurate knowledge of the outbreaks and chains of contamination that have led to such a resurgence in this province. Moreover, let us look at the obligation to wear the mask. A few months ago, you simply felt it was useless. Today, you said it was almost mandatory everywhere. "Almost", because it is again for the mayors to fix places with high attendance where it will be mandatory. We have already seen advertisements that set the obligation to wear the mask everywhere in the commune, sometimes only in certain arteries, sometimes only on certain days, sometimes within a specific perimeter. How do you want citizens to be there depending on whether they are in one municipality or the other? Why not impose the wearing of the mask everywhere with certain specific exceptions? With regard to the reduction of the famous social bubble, the GEES considered it necessary to reduce the size of this bubble from 15 to 10 people, in its first report last Thursday. Today, it is reduced to five. Why? You are talking about five people in addition to the home, not counting children under the age of twelve, and the possibility of meeting ten for private events. Admit it's complicated to be there for the citizens. To this is added the holiday period, during which citizens will find themselves in countries where this concept does not exist. How do you intend to allow real adherence to these measures, especially in view of the slackening observed in recent weeks? Are you considering specific controls? Are the police really in a position to assume this responsibility? You will allow me to be very surprised that, at Monday's press conference, the holiday returns were never mentioned, although we know that they were the pivotal element in triggering the first wave. For holidaymakers returning from a red zone, quarantine and screening are required. For vacationers returning from an orange zone, it is recommended that they be screened for quarantine. An online form must be completed by all holidaymakers returning from abroad regardless of the colour of the area, subject to a fine. The form in question is also well available on the site, but it is not yet possible to complete it online to date. How do you explain this, when we are at the end of July, just a few days before the entry into force, which is set for 1 August. It is unthinkable not to have anticipated it. In this regard, too, these obligations and recommendations are announced, but how are they followed up, in collaboration with the federated entities, if not on the goodwill of everyone? I also come to one of the important points that has been and continues to be lacking in crisis management: communication. Individual responsibility is often emphasized. Everyone has to respect the rules, you repeat it to the envire, but in order to do so, these rules must be clear, legible, consistent and means must be used to make them known. Are information campaigns planned again? For example, in France, they have never ceased. The only press conferences and the traditional press are no longer enough to reach all groups in our society, especially the most vulnerable. Is there any reflection in this direction and are you considering new initiatives? Finally, I would like to come back with you, Mr De Backer, on the question of testing. I don't have any illusions, as you always do, that you put forward our capacity for 30,000 tests a day, and the fact that it will continue to grow. In reality, after months of crisis, we test little, far too little. According to Sciensano's data, these tests amount to about 8,500 for July 21 and 22, 12,000 for July 23 and 24, 9,000 for July 25, and when the tests are carried out, the results arrive very late, too late. Sometimes we have to wait three days, which obviously undermines the whole operation and the quality of the tracing that should follow. Yet, all experts agree that massive screening in epidemic outbreaks, as well as as asymptomatic people, is really the key to avoiding rebound. So why continue to argue for targeted testing, while massive screening has produced results in other countries? How can we really use our testing capability? It is not enough to dispose of it, it must be used! What are the blockages? And how, after all these months, have you still not provided a clear and effective answer? Rest homes, too, continue to demand more testing, especially for new professionals, both permanent and temporary, including trainees, students who work in institutions, two days before their intervention in the nursing home, as has already been done in France since mid-June. Do you intend to respond to this request to avoid errors in the first wave? More than 280,000 people were tested between April 8 and May 18 in nursing homes, of whom 8,340 were positive and 75% of positive cases did not show symptoms at the time of the test - more than 6,240 people. Minister, what is the status of serological tests and their reimbursement today? It's been a long time since you've been asked about this case. Professor Jean-Luc Gala carried out an extremely interesting mission to the north of Italy to test several thousand people - a kind of mass screening that, according to him, would be quite achievable by a well-trained team, with the means at our disposal. For example, specifically in Antwerp, the testing system with a mobile laboratory could be considered today with the collaboration of Civil Protection. Are you going to do it? Finally, since Saturday 11 July, French pharmacies are allowed to carry out rapid diagnostic tests that indicate whether the body has already developed an immune response against coronavirus or whether the person has already been exposed to the virus in the past. These rapid diagnostic orientation tests allow us to know in a few minutes whether antibodies have been manufactured. For now, they're still banned at our house. Is there any ongoing reflection in this context and has there been a recent consultation with the actors in the field? If not, Minister, what are the brakes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u14	Mr President, I thank the Ministers for the information provided. In my view, there is a need for a lot of pedagogy and a lot of explanation for citizens to understand. In addition, a form of cacophony between politicians, experts and the media should be avoided, which makes the measures taken today completely inaudible. Of course, we can always say that we could have done otherwise, acted sooner, faster; the essential thing is that we find ourselves in a new situation and that we have to provide answers. I have several concerns. First, what about tests for influenza and lung disease? Then what are we going to do with all the masks that we destroy? There's a waste treatment problem. Finally, we must prepare for the future. There's school start – even though I know it's a community competence. There is also the problem of teleworking, which can have psychological consequences for those who practice teleworking, as is the case with video conferencing which is increasing in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u15	Mr President, I have a few more questions: I had prepared a lot of them, but they have already been asked by colleagues. First of all, about Antwerp. Professor Emmanuel André called the infection sites a sociological problem. That was actually a very cautious communication to say that certain groups in our society do not comply with the rules and thereby facilitate the further spread of COOVID-19. Meanwhile, we know that it is mainly the Jewish, Turkish and Moroccan communities, which are super-distributors. This Friday there will be the Sacrifice, which is a very family celebration for the Islamic community. In the meantime, we know that the bubble of five, in certain situations possibly extended to ten, will be too small for many families. How will the new stricter rules be enforced? Will there be extra cops on the track? Will there be strict action? Is there actually a plan to deal with offenders? My question about the tests has already been asked, but I have another supplement. The government is not in favour of self-testing and the experts are not in favour of 100 percent either. Nevertheless, we need to think again about the self-tests, including the saliva tests. Perhaps they are not always as reliable, but perhaps they know something better than nothing. I agree with colleagues on the figures for testing. Minister De Backer, you keep saying that between 10,000 and 15,000 people are tested a day and that that can still be increased to 30,000. I think I've heard that Sciensano says it's up to 70,000. However, the statistics prove otherwise, as I said at the last committee meeting. According to the charts at Sciensano and through World in Data it appears that about 8,000 tests per day were done in early July. So we are actually not doing very well, even if you want to give the impression that that is the case. I also agree with the request for clarification on the bubble. One can have a beer with only ten people or was it five, that is not clear, while one can sit with 200 people packed together in an airplane. I can imagine that it is not entirely clear what is or is not allowed. It would therefore be a good thing for the government to communicate very clearly about certain measures and to be very consistent in their tightening or easing. As far as returning travellers are concerned, you said that testing is mandatory or strongly recommended if one comes from a red or orange area. I believe that the measure should be extended and I would like to hear your opinion on it. What are we doing, for example, with party chairmen coming from Spain who have been partying hard on them? It will not just be about presidents, there will be a lot of party animals doing things abroad that are forbidden here, which of course does not promote security. I would also have liked to have heard exactly what medication is being given to people infected with COVID-19. What about remdesivir and chloroquine? Are certain supplements given? What is currently the standard medication for COVID-19 patients? Now that the second wave is much earlier than anyone expected, the leave schedules of nurses and labs are mixed up. How's that gonna be fixed? Do you have an insight into the condition of the caregivers? Will sufficient care providers be able to be summoned so that the capacity is large enough? I am pleased that we will first look at the patients at risk when a vaccine comes. There would be four million Belgian patients at risk, but of course the risk is not the same for each of them. You mentioned a list, and I would like to know what it means. Is it a qualification or a quantification of the risk? The greater the risk, the higher one is on the list? What exactly is this list like? I hope, moreover, that this list is up-to-date and that we do not have to go after the facts again. I would also like to know how you will protect the vulnerable this time. I am thinking, among other things, of the elderly, long-term sick and cancer patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u16	Minister, Minister, I thank you in advance for allowing us this exchange of information the day after the last National Security Council (NSC). Measures have been taken and others need to be coordinated and coordinated at all levels: national, regional, local and individual. I would also like to thank you for having already answered many of my questions. My new questions relate to the current situation and the actions taken at yesterday's NSC. They concern young people, tests, the capabilities of our laboratories and hospitals, as well as police work within the country and at the borders. As far as young people are concerned, it seems to be confirmed that the resurgence of cases mainly affects them. It's summer, confinement has ended, and the information that seniors are the main risk group has been widely relayed in recent months. We are also on school leave. These factors have probably contributed to the underestimation of risk among younger people. The government has just decided to reduce authorized attendance at events, make it mandatory to wear the mask and significantly reduce the bubble of social contacts. These are important measures, but are you in contact with the federated entities as part of an action intended exclusively for the younger population? Similarly, has an enhanced and clearly marked awareness campaign, for example on social networks, been proposed by the experts and planned in the near future? With regard to the tests, you have indicated that the testing capacity is currently 20,000 tests per day and would be increased by 5,000 every 15 days. Quite simply, is this an effective measure given the target of 50,000 - even 70,000 - tests per day to be achieved in case of a new peak? What about this capacity in communities facing epidemic flare-ups? I am of course thinking of Antwerp. Are specific means implemented in view of the number of cases at the local level? How is support offered to general practitioners in the above-mentioned areas? In this regard, what are the complications encountered in reopening the triage centres at the regional level? Is the entire territory now covered in accordance with the standard of a centre per 100,000 inhabitants? What about mobile reinforcements, for example? With regard to the people to be tested, I mean that audiences are being proactively tested and that the current strategy has indeed been coordinated with the experts. Nevertheless, you will have become aware of the desire to modify this strategy by epidemiologist Yves Van Laethem, who proposes to expand it and to make its management more proactive without waiting for the individual's request to the doctor. Do you consider this necessary? Furthermore, what is currently the time limit announced when the future test is being carried out? Does it vary a lot from one Region to another? What is the actual average time frame for receipt of the result? For front-line, analytical and medical treatment services, is the monitoring of stocks of drugs and products such as laboratory reagents already effective? Is this monitoring permanent and daily, carried out in contact with hospitals and laboratories? In addition, you indicated that the drugs used in clinical studies were subject to vigilance, with a view to distributing them. At this level, have the options for treating symptoms in our hospitals changed significantly since the peak of March/April? I am thinking of intensive care based on experience. At the tracing level, you have told us that efforts are being strengthened in call centres. We mean that there are about 15% of people who remain unanswered or uncontacted. How is follow-up done to get in touch with these people at risk? Finally, as far as the work of our police services is concerned, you have provided data on the work done when returning to airports. In concrete terms, I know that you are not Minister of the Interior, but here is a question directly related to the fight against the spread. What about the resources put in place at airports? There is evidence that there is a lack of time and staff to control people returning from outside the Schengen area and from orange or red areas, who do not have a PLF form. They must then complete it on the spot, but this would not be done systematically, given the number of people arriving. Do you have any information on this work of the aviation police and on the difficulties of this type? Were their numbers increased until September, following the publication of the last ministerial decree? Finally, for good local follow-up, are these completed PLF forms communicated to the local police area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u17	Mr President, I will add briefly. We have all said that we do not want to see him again at the heart of the summer and that is an expression that sadly fits into our daily language: VOCID-19 does not take a vacation, and it confirms this to us today. I had several questions. This virus is new, as has been said: it is 200 days old. Have scientific knowledge evolved on the concept of super-contaminant? How are they identified? What are their profiles? My colleague has already spoken about the age of infected people. Did this have an impact on yesterday's decisions? We're talking about bubble reduction. I'd say this bubble is being rethought. Of course, we will have to adapt to the way it has been rethought. What is the origin of this decision? I don't think we should underestimate the intelligence of the Belgians. Indeed, the comparison – which I have just heard – between the taking of a plane and the social bubble seemed to me intellectually dishonest. As far as testing is concerned, we must distinguish – as has been said – between capacity and strategy. Would it not be appropriate to consider testing other clusters, other areas, other target groups, especially in areas that are blazing, such as Antwerp? I also welcome the vaccination plan. Questions have already been asked about this, whether it is for VOCID-19 or for influenza. Measures taken for health-care personnel, including mental health. I believe that all the measures that we are obliged to take back will have an impact on the mental health of Belgians. We'll have to keep an eye on it. Finally, it is difficult to take all these measures from a human and economic point of view, but they are essential to avoid a re-establishment, and I wanted to remind you of that. Indeed, it has been said on several occasions: any acquired freedom can be taken up in the interest of public health and criticism is easy, but making such decisions is tantamount to showing political courage in a complicated situation for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u18	Minister, Minister, thank you for your presence and your explanation of the crisis. I have heard a lot of good things, but I still have a few questions. As far as medical equipment and medicines are concerned, I have heard that there has been a good addition to the medicines needed for COVID-19 patients. There is 30 days of treatment for 450 patients a day, Minister. I am therefore confident that we are well prepared for the second wave. In the last few months, a lot of drugs have been used that are not refunded. Should I assume that they belong to those medicines of which we have sufficient stock, namely 30 days of treatment for 450 patients? In April there was also talk about the production of mouth masks in Belgium. By the end of May or the second week of June, a large production and capacity would be ready for our country. What is the state of play in that? There is still some uncertainty on the ground. Who exactly needs to order this material? Does the federal government make the orders to ensure that all medical equipment is of high quality, and does it also provide the dispatching or does the healthcare sector itself have to launch by placing orders? GPs in particular have questions about this. As far as testing is concerned, I've heard talk about the test sample. I have also heard the arguments you have raised. I can follow them, but I still have questions about the mandatory test when one comes back from abroad. How mandatory and compelling is this test? How do we get an overview of the people who have travelled back from abroad? How do we know whether or not they have been tested? Since we have had a test capacity of 50 000 for a few months, I wonder whether it is not useful to include airports, such as Taiwan, Aruba and Greece. We still have room. So it would be good to take preventive action so that we can protect our people even better. In the survey of the tests per province, I saw that the test capacity for both West Flanders, East Flanders and Antwerp is about 30,000. What is the time frame? It's probably not about the daily test capacity. Sciensano's releasing other numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u19	Those are the figures for the last two weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u20	It would be useful to also have the figures per day, because also with Sciensano they are not always clear. It would be good to communicate in this way, to ensure that we have a real-time view of what is happening on the ground. Madam Secretary, you are in consultation with the FOD regarding the flu vaccinations. I am very happy about that. It is true, however, that not only prioritisation but also phasering will be very important. I wonder if there are discussions with doctors and workers' doctors already going on to ensure that we will be thrifty enough. With three million flu vaccines, we will have to pay very close attention and ensure that our vulnerable population is given priority. How exactly do you see that? Are there any compelling measures? Are there any conversations with the GPs? I'm very curious about that. I would like to thank you for your commitment. With regard to the care staff, I would like to express my satisfaction, especially when it comes to mental health. They have had a very hard time. What we have heard from you today is very welcome news. Finally, I would like to talk about the triage posts. Minister, you say that we will go to one triage post per 100,000 inhabitants. I understand that certain regions and provinces have closed triage posts because the curve was falling. Which regions and provinces have deficits today? Are those big deficits? Madam Minister, I have already asked you about the financing of this. You replied positively. I also read that you reached a good agreement with Domus Medica on July 10th. However, I do not think that the royal decision to fix it has yet been published. You can correct me if I'm wrong. I hope that the order of business was put in place to ensure that the general practitioners are ready to tackle the second wave and do not have to do so with a financial hangover from the first wave on the board. Finally, I would like to give a very brief thought to what has been said here in committee today. Colleagues, if there is one thing that binds us, that is our health. I therefore hope that political parties will not use that to polarise even more. I'm well-educated and will call it absurd, but it's far worse than absurd. I hope that the government will send a clear signal to keep our people together. I repeat, public health is a team sport and I am counting on the government to communicate properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u21	Mrs Merckx will be replaced by Mr De Vuyst today. Welcome to our committee, Mr De Vuyst.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u22	Good afternoon, Mr and Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for attending the committee. We were called together because the state of health is heading in the wrong direction. I would like to join what my predecessor has said. Health is our highest good. I think there is a need for joint decisions in this area. I think there's been a lack of unity of command over the last few months, weeks and days. We have also been able to establish this at the last two meetings of the National Security Council. The decision-making process is too often delayed and paralyzed with six levels of government and nine health ministers. Madam Secretary, I think you should draw the sheet and take the initiative. You are also competent for the health of all Belgians, of all people on our territory. In the field of contact tracing, you should take the initiative to support this more locally. The expertise and experience is there. This is already happening with group practices and the 11 primary centres of Medicine for the People. They're taking control of that tracking now, too. Two weeks ago, there was a positive case in Antwerp. In Medicine for the People, they managed to appoint someone who has a relationship of trust with those patients. People are close to the people. We have managed to identify, contact and quarantine the infected people very quickly. I think this is what we need. The approach of Medicine for the People, with a locally embedded contact search and a great focus on personal contact and confidentiality, is a good approach. The WHO also points out that this is a priority in the fight against this virus. We only have two options to prevent the virus from spreading again. First, the blunt axe or the general lockdown. That's efficient, but nobody wants it. Secondly, the scalpel or very targeted people test, detect and isolate. We must make every effort to do so. This way we can avoid a new lockdown. In South-East Asia, for example, the TOI initiative was set up very quickly. The mortality rates are much better there. If Vietnam, South Korea and Singapore were to be compared with Belgium, one would be rather surprised. In the meantime, we've landed on that tilting moment. You know that too, Madam Secretary. That is why the National Security Council met yesterday. The measures taken there are necessary and it is good that the advice of the virologists was really listened to. However, as I have said, we have not heard much about contact tracing. That is where our attention is going, where our attention should really go, because that is actually the only way to combat and reduce the pandemic effectively. Is the government prepared to radically adjust the contact tracing, to use more resources for general practitioners at sentries, who can often detect infections much more closely and much more quickly on the ball in collaboration with local authorities? Do we want to provide funds for this? Will there be cooperation with local general practitioners and general practitioners in test centres? As far as the test material is concerned, I have just looked with great attention at the PowerPoint of Minister De Backer. On the advice of Sciensano, it is planned to buy a lot more test material to cope with these peak moments, but I would like to ask once again whether they are prepared for the flare-up and for outbreaks such as now in Antwerp. Will the special types that allow rapid processing be distributed on a large scale from now on? For the rest, we see that many municipalities and cities themselves start with a local contact tracing. For example in Zelzate, where I am a city council member, we together with the municipality of Wachtebeke will recruit someone to track and isolate people in close consultation with the general practitioner's office. We see that this is much more efficient and works much better than the top-down method used over the past three months, calling people from a call centre with which one has no relationship of trust and where there is too much time in between. I have just heard Minister De Backer say that cooperation agreements need to be re-established in order to make the data from the Sciensano databases available to the call centres more quickly, but it would still be much more efficient if we were to be able to play more locally on the ball. Once again, we are critical, but we are also offering a solution. We have developed such protocols, we have the experience through the first-line centres of Medicine for the People, we have the expertise and make it available. Yesterday, of course, the Security Council again emphasised the measures that we must continue to respect in general hygiene, such as hand washing and keeping away. The bubble actually got smaller as well. Over the next four months, we must confine ourselves to our family and five additional people, which will greatly limit our freedom of movement and our social interaction. For many people this will be a very difficult test, not the least in terms of mental health. This is particularly true for young people, teenagers and teenagers, who will see their freedom of movement reduced during the holidays. Minister De Block, you've already applied for psychosocial support to the care staff. Referring to the resolution which has been adopted almost unanimously in Parliament recently, I wonder when you will effectively use more resources for more accessible psychological care, with a doubling of the investment in Belgian mental health care. I'm afraid that's gonna be necessary. Some colleagues have already referred to the fact that the failure of the government in the field of contact detection did not lead to a timely detection, follow-up and response to local hotspots. A sector that was already bleeding enormously was the event and culture sector, and it was already doing an enormous amount of work to stamp out corona-safe events. Both in my municipality and elsewhere, local associations and organisations were preparing something. They are now getting the lid on the nose and will need government support again. I hope there will be. I'll leave it at that for now. Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, it is not good news that we need to meet again today. The first observation is that a lot of people seem to be unable to comply with some very easy rules. People have to realize that their behavior determines our way of life over the next year. With the second wave, we can see that people don't have that awareness. Many have shown insufficient discipline within the limits of the freedom they have been given. In my surroundings I heard that the concept of fifteen people per week cannot be controlled and that there can be a party for fifteen people seven days a week. That is not the intention, of course. That caused the virus's rapid re-flammation today. The measures announced in particular yesterday are valid for four weeks. It is important that a new exit strategy should also consider ways to encourage our citizens to comply with relaxed rules. Hopefully, the rule of the bubble of five will be respected very well and will not be interpreted in its own way. I notice that one of the problems we face in the second wave is that the location of the infection shark is difficult to determine: at the hairdresser, or in restaurants or at a family party. In the discussions on the legislation surrounding the Sciensano database and the contact search, it became clear that many parties attach enormous importance to privacy. Of course Open Vld also attaches great importance to this, but in order to guarantee our freedom in this health crisis it may have been necessary to sacrifice some of the privacy, with a very clear purpose and under very strict conditions. At that time, a number of parties had a lot of difficulties in collecting certain elements. Many provisions had to be deleted. Today we cannot ask where someone has been over the last few weeks. That information cannot be retrieved, but it would be essential to detect the fireplaces. We can be the champion of GDPR, while the virus is spreading massively, often at the expense of the weakest in society. I have heard that the Data Protection Authority has now also made a number of comments, for example on the home visit made if people do not respond to telephones or do not want to cooperate. The Data Protection Authority questions that, but let's face it: the virus doesn't care about the GDPR. Of course privacy is important. My party is also a champion in that respect. We will always stand on the barricades to protect everyone's privacy. We must therefore ensure that the data collected are used only for contact detection and scientific research. That's obvious. At no time should that information be used for anything else. However, I also think that we should not exaggerate in the area of privacy and should not argue in favour of privacy squared, because that is not the issue in this health crisis. We must set our priorities very carefully and think very carefully about what can and cannot be done. I would like to raise another point. At the meetings of the special committee, there was little enthusiasm at that time for the work of that special committee to start very quickly. Many parties also did not consider it necessary for us to make recommendations with a view to a second outbreak of the virus. According to many Members, this was not the task of that special committee. For the record, it was not the members of the government parties who questioned the rapid start-up of the special committee. I regret that, especially when I look at the Flemish Parliament. Last Friday there were no less than 95 recommendations, particularly on residential care centres, but also on contact tracing and a number of other matters. They have put forward proposals to deal with matters differently and better in a second wave, which, although there is faster than we expected. That is why it seems obvious to me that the special committee would meet early. In the meantime, I have also requested that the President of the Chamber be allowed to meet for the first time next Friday. I have already consulted with my two Vice-Presidents and with the three experts who have agreed to do so. They could also participate. The members of that special committee may be invited to do so during the course of this week. I think that we should try from that special committee to make some recommendations very quickly in the context of this second wave. Everyone knew it was coming, and I think people are expecting us to take those steps. If we look over the wall at the Flemish committee, a so-called ad hoc committee, I have heard a number of things there. From time to time, there was a lot of emphasis on the responsibility of the federal government. I have heard that repeated here a number of parties. I would like to remind you of the opinion of the Council of State that testing and tracing are the powers of the Communities. I also remember Pedro Facon's testimony on the Flemish committee. He said that at the end of March Flanders and Wallonia had been offered the opportunity to coordinate the crisis in the residential care centres inter-federally, but it was answered that these were regional powers and that the federal government had nothing to do with it. So I find it easy to refer to the federal government if we reject interfederal coordination. Also this morning I heard on Radio 1 that there is not enough testing in Brussels. There would even be waiting times up to five days. This is also clearly a competence of the Communities, but I think it is important that the testing is carried out in a good way. As the previous speaker said, it is important to detect new infections very quickly. If the regions fail to do so, it will have a major impact on the whole territory. I wonder whether this is being discussed with Brussels or with the other regions, because it is not all going perfectly as we know. I want to make another call. I hope that all governments will cooperate constructively to deal with this crisis. It is time for personal resentment and political bazookas of mayors in both parts of the country who have long refused to form a government to be put away and a government with full powers, which is also needed to tackle this crisis. That is a warm call to the parties currently engaged in these talks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u24	I am not sure if the ministers will answer your last question, but I assume that everyone has heard your call correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u25	Mr President, it is very important that we meet today for this and I would like to thank the services for the extra effort. There were two of us who wanted to be here, but Mr Bertels, like me, felt that it was particularly important at this stage of the crisis to adhere very strictly to the new Antwerp rules. So he'll be supplementing through Zoom later. Dear Government, dear National Security Council, you have finally managed to do what needs to be done. Why the hell couldn't this happen sooner? The situation is particularly serious, we are the worst student in Europe, and yet you are only now, after striking criticism from both the experts and the population, successful in taking the right measures. Yesterday, after hours of meetings, it was still difficult to speak with one voice. One of the experts had to explain on TV last night what a bubble of five actually is, because according to their communication the ministers clearly did not agree. Clear communication is vital here, but even in these precarious circumstances it is not possible. Moreover, as far as we are concerned, it is particularly painful to note that these very strict measures, which we fully support, must now be introduced because certain previous measures were ineffective or inadequate. Erika Vlieghe put it in a newspaper as follows: "As if the fire department is ready to put out your house but without the right hose to connect to the water pipe." That is, of course, very unfortunate. There are structures and there is know-how, as the ministers have just confirmed. It seems, however, that things are still not being streamlined. Tracing remains a major problem in managing this crisis. The sp.a has already warned from the beginning that this is very important and we have just heard again in the presentations that all puzzle pieces are present but that the tracing does not go as it should. I see you pointing a bit at the regions, but we are convinced that the fight against this virus falls or stands with correct tracing. Madam Secretary, it seems to me that you or the Prime Minister should then be responsible for coordinating the war against this virus. Moreover, the same applies to the international aspect. There, too, it is still chaos, despite what you have explained, Minister. I hear the form is finally here. Meanwhile, hundreds of people have already returned home on the plane of a foreign voyage. I therefore agree with Mrs Farih's question. There is still a great deal of work to be done at airports with regard to testing, because that is not happening at the moment. My penultimate point is a more specific question to you, Madam Secretary. I'd love to hear you talk about the vaccination plan against flu. I'm very glad you've been able to secure half a million doses. I just want to ask you this. I understand that at the moment, in order to follow the advice of the High Health Council, we need four million doses and that the FAGG has currently only been able to order 2.9 million doses. Is that half a million that you spoke of included in that or not? I would have liked to know. Finally, what are you going to do? I think this is particularly important in this whole crisis and at this crucial stage in order to restore trust and respect between government, Security Council and experts? Our group firmly believes that we can only get out of this malaise through great consensus and with all the noses in the same direction. For the time being, I'm really hungry in that area, dear government members.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u26	I would like to endorse Mrs Jiroflée's speech and the last aspect of it. Protecting public health is a team sport. Members of Parliament, ministers, experts and all those involved should be on the same page. The same applies in the case of enlargement to the whole community and the whole population. We must all go through this together. For that there are clear, clear and timely measures that we have had some problems with. There must also be clear, clear and timely communication about it. That is oh so important for the support. For example, we will need clear communication about the general mouth mask obligation in the province of Antwerp, including in the small, rural municipalities in the Kempen. It must be clearly and unequivocally explained why it is logical and necessary. With regard to testing and tracing and the authority given to local authorities in local flares, is there no possibility to transfer more specific data on infections into a municipality from the Sciensano database? The mayors are supposed to act, but they now only get data by municipality. They don't know where the infections are happening. More specific detections can sometimes be made through the general practitioners or guards. This happens, for example, with us in Herentals. These data are worth a lot more and can avoid many more problems, which otherwise will come afterwards. Why can't this data flow be organised from Brussels? Minister, there is a lot of commotion in the ICT sector about the allocation of the development of the Belgian app to DevSide, whether or not in Ixor's company. Is it possible to make public the textbook drawn up by Smalls, the registrations and the reasons for the allocation, so that all suspicions can be eliminated? Is it also possible to publish the roadmap for the launch of the app in September so that the sector is reassured that the small company is doing well? I thought it was a government contract. Why is the follow-up not made public, so that a great deal of concern is removed? Minister De Block, the Public Health Office, together with the Centre for Crisis Psychology and the Army, took actions concerning the psychosocial support of the care staff, specifically of the hospitals. It is good that a number of webinars are available, but is this now translated into even more concrete actions in the workplace? These webinars reach a number of staff members, but not everyone, and not necessarily everyone who needs them. You rightly point out that we need to look at the capacity to catch a second wave of COVID-19 hospital patients. You are right to say that it is important that regular or recurrent care should continue, because there has been a delay in this regard. Are there now daily capacity measurements to be passed on by hospitals, taking into account the two parameters, namely regular care and COOVID-19 care, if it increases again, as has happened in the past? At that time, care was limited to COVID-19 care, as regular care had stopped.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as Mrs Gijbel's questions are concerned, the figures for Flanders are indeed higher, but it is mainly Antwerp, which now accounts for 35% to almost 45% of the daily number of new infections, which is therefore an important fireplace. When I say Antwerp, I mean the city of Antwerp and a few other cities in the province of Antwerp. I realise, of course, that the measures taken for the whole of the province also have consequences in more rural municipalities, such as in the Kempen. Sciensano gives the figures of the number of new infections in a particular municipality for the last seven days and the last day. It is difficult to explain to people who are likely to comply with all the rules that these measures also apply to them. I hope it is under control there, because that does not seem to me to be the most appropriate way to wake up today. I got questions about the control tower. This is a layered organisation. At micro level, the municipal security cell is fed and surveillance, data collection and reporting takes place up to the level of a district or a municipality. That system is still being refined. Dr. Quoilin is still working on more refinement. The data will be delivered to the respective agencies. It used to be once a day, now there's a push of information to the contact trackers several times a day. Then there is the RAG for scientific advice and of course there are coordination and coordination, which have been strengthened in the National Focal Point. In these COVID-19 times, the Inter-Federal Committee was added because the Council of State had said that the federal level should make the database available to the Communities. After all, one cannot just create a database, given all the rules on GDPR, among other things. If the three Communities each set up a database, that would be problematic, because they all have to be connected and people sometimes live in one province and work in another. Political coordination is taking place at the level of the Inter-Ministerial Conference, which has already met a great deal. The mesolevel is the provincial crisis cell, as it was called together by Mrs Berx in Antwerp. The macro level is the Federal Coordination Committee or COFECO and the National Crisis Centre. Above that is the National Security Council, where decisions are indeed taken. We are an institutionally complicated country, that is beyond question. This means that all the lengthy consultations, with four Communities, take a great deal of time. We need to work on speed in this area and have already done so. After all, so much consultation also results in some delay. The data remains important, just like its flow and accuracy. Sciensano has very accurate data with Epistat. The "cliquet" is important, that is when one is notified. There are three "cliquets." The municipalities are notified by Sciensano when there is a problem, when 1 "cliquet" is exceeded and not after 3. They are notified on time, but do not yet know where the problem lies. So they still have to wait for the contact tracing, for information via, for example, the Agency for Health and Health for Flanders. I am not criticising you, we must also strengthen our federal administrations, as we were never affected by such a crisis, but also the Health and Health Agency and other agencies are struggling to get all the work done. As far as consolidation is concerned, several roadmaps were made to dive the clusters. I do not need to explain to you that it is all about different plans, because the structures are different. In Flanders, for example, there are the care councils, which do not exist in Wallonia, Brussels or the German-speaking Community. We are now doing the exercise to streamline everything as quickly as possible. The Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee, led by Pedro Facon, at the FPS Public Health has never stopped reporting. This report therefore continues, several times a day. I think that's a good thing. The hospitals are back to normal and have resumed their normal activities. There has been a scaling down, from less COVID-19-related functions to more regular functions. The scale-ups have already been made, for the intensive services and the COVID-19 services. People don't want to be as drastic as in the first wave. We'll see how that goes; we don't have a glass ball. One cannot compare a continent with a country, but in Australia and Serbia the second wave is much faster and bigger. In other countries this is less; let us hope that this will also be the case with us. There was a question from Mrs Farih Nawal about the payment to the triage centres. The Royal Decree on this matter was signed by the King last Thursday. Two editions of the Belgian Official Journal have already been published, but it is not yet available. That'll be for one of the next days. On 16 July we paid for the protection equipment for 143 centres of EUR 286 000. For the start-up costs, the payment order was signed and is in progress by our financial service. 138 triage centres will thus receive an additional amount of around €800,000. I think the triage centers are very important. Mr De Vuyst said that primary care is very important. Of course, it's primordial. They are closely involved in the discussions in the FPS Health Department through the GPs and representatives. In my village, for example, there is a general practitioner's office in collaboration with eight municipalities. Now there is also a separate triage center, to do cohort care. The municipality has provided us with a house. It helps a little that our mayor is a pharmacist. In that house a triage post has been created by the general practitioners for the eight municipalities. There was first an emergency triage post in the sports hall, when the sports hall was no longer used. Actually, we couldn't stay there. Mrs Depoorter and Mrs Jiroflée already explained how difficult it is to explain the bubble of five. I don't know why that's so hard. The people who live under your roof, or that a friend, three children, a man, without man, a man, and a woman, etcetera, form your bubble. You can choose five people for a period of four weeks. Those people must also choose you, because you are one of those strange people or a strange family that comes into their bubble. It's not that simple. One must think carefully about who is included in one's bubble and whether that can be limited to five. That's a super-strong way. One should always be careful, but at the breakfast table one does not arrive with a mouth mask, for example, so one should have close contact with those people. That other group of ten concerns meetings with up to ten people, never again. That could be in the garden, on the terrace, in a food store. That's a non-organized meeting. It doesn't matter if it's inside or outside. They must not exceed 10 persons, with the exception of children under the age of 12. They don't count for the first. I don't know what's so complicated about that. In that group of ten, however, hygiene measures must be maintained. Can your own bubble fit into that group of ten? Yes, if one wants to do something that still requires closer contact, for example with two people sitting in a boat, which is difficult to keep away from. This must be taken into account, but otherwise it is not impossible to go hiking or cycling with another group. I don't know what people do in their spare time, because I don't have a lot of free time myself. That is a very great effort that we are asking of the people. It is also a question of restricting freedom. The virologists told us yesterday, it is the measure we must take to drastically reduce the number of contacts. The FAQ of Home Affairs is also important. An electronic ministerial council is now working on the ministerial decision. After that the work will be done in those frequently asked questions. Reference was made to the difference in measures taken by the National Security Council last week and this week. The health situation is completely different. We are always working with reports and recommendations from Celeval, based on the epidemiological situation. You can see that there is a large difference between the situation outlined in the Celeval Opinion No. 62 of last week and outlined in the Celeval Opinion No. 64 of this week. Opinion No 64 is stronger and calls for more serious measures. In fact, we followed almost all the measures last week, except for the reduction of the bubble, which then followed a whole farce. Again, people also tell me that they are cautious and do not even reach that number. There are people who have very little contact and there are people who have too many contacts, we know that from the contact tracing too. However, it is mainly about how one behaves in relation to one's contacts, how careful one is, how closely one respects distance and hygiene measures. Mrs Depoorter, we have an opinion from the High Health Council on the flu vaccine. A question is now addressed to the Risk Assessment Group. We now know what the priority groups are. If we're gonna do a phaser, there's got to be an opinion. We have asked the RAG for such advice and it is going to do so. Mrs Van Camp, as far as the masks are concerned, we have always followed the recommendations of the World Health Organisation. It has always stated that masks can only have added value in the exit phase if one cannot keep a distance. This applies to ordinary citizens, not to those taking care of them, because it is always necessary to take precautions when caring for patients. National measures have been taken by the National Security Council, an inter-federal college. The prime ministers are there and decisions are taken collectively. I think it is important that the PS and the N-VA are also represented there by these prime ministers. Mrs Creemers, the resolution of the Flemish Parliament contains more than 90 points. I've seen them, and there's a lot of work to be done. That's good because, as I said, the work is in progress. You say there's talk about hospital staff going to the residential care centers. No, it says that there should be a strengthening of residential care centres for hospital staff. That's right, we know that. Above all, we need nursing staff. Of course, it's not an easy time to find those staff. The Health Care Staff Fund has been approved, as from next year also the Social Agreement. In the meantime, however, the work has to be done by the people who are here today, which is obviously not easy. Furthermore, we created liaison functions between the hospitals and the residential care centres immediately when it appeared that there were problems in the residential care centres. These are hygienists, people who teach how to handle protective equipment and how to change properly in order not to be in danger. If this is not done correctly, there will be no protection. In the meantime, therefore, further work has been carried out on the training. For a state of affairs, we must always go through the Inter-Ministerial Conference and ask the relevant ministers of the Länder for information. We know that there are great differences in the way residential care centres work. It was said that the GEES should be integrated into the RAG or RMG. However, the GEES is not an official structure created by us. The GEES is an advisory committee to guide the exit strategy and advises directly to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has appointed that group of 10. If, at this stage, we have to incorporate that group or a number of people out into the other permanent structures, then that is an exercise that can happen, but the GEES cannot just be added to it. It also includes people with other competences. The RAG and RMG form the structure for crisis management. The GEES had to accompany the exit. As far as the triage centres and the Community's primary competence are concerned, we are helping them and paying part of them. It is a good thing that we are working together on this, because this can lead to a cohorting, so that only suspicious patients are sent there, including by the general practitioners. If they want to do it themselves, they can be, but it's an important help. Mrs Tillieux, you spoke of the second wave and the Celeval opinion. Have you seen the totally different opinions? But in fact, they were both followed: yesterday completely, as Mr Clarinval said, and four days ago, Celeval's opinion was also followed, except for the issue of bubbles that needed to be reduced. However, all other recommendations were followed by the National Security Council. I often have the opportunity - we are working very well together - to participate with the Ministers-Presidents, including yours, Mr Di Rupo, in the National Security Council. There is a systematic discussion of the importance of involving the mayors and governors in the fight against this virus by taking measures at local level. And it is Mr.Di Rupo who, in his capacity as Minister-President, has frequent contacts with the five Francophone governors. That is why Acting Governor of West Flanders, Mrs Martens, and the Governor of Antwerp, Ms Berx, also participated in the National Security Council meeting. As far as I'm aware, that hasn't happened very often. These experts do possess a lot of skills. It is for Sciensano to warn the mayors as soon as a cliquet is overtaken, and it has always been so. The tracing of contacts must then be carried out by the Agency for a Quality Life (AViQ) in Wallonia. The contacts as well as the AViQ data must also be transmitted to the mayors, failing which they do not know in which type of gathering the cases are observed (is it a sports club, a church, a mosque or a synagogue?). We already know that it happens mainly in the contacts, but sometimes also in some communities where clusters develop, after which these people spread. We also know that some very young people, so-called superspreaders, are there. You say that the form to be completed by travellers returning to Belgium (the Passenger Locator Form) is not available online, but it is. This form is the result of joint work by the Aliens Office, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior and, of course, the Ministry of Public Health. The form is available in four languages and can be completed with a smartphone. One can print that with another computer. One can show it when one takes the plane. It's for people who come back by plane, by car, by bus, by train. A boat, that will be less so. Depending on where one comes from, this is compulsory or voluntary. It is important that this is digitized, because it cannot be kept up to date manually in times of vacation. Mrs Sneppe, can we stop people from taking a plane and travelling? No. I read that my Dutch colleague has sent a letter to the chairman of the House of Representatives, in which he states that travelling cannot be avoided because people are free. It is hoped that they will accept their responsibility. We cannot ban people from travelling unless we are talking about a red zone, where we cannot go. It can also be done for a country for which a visa is needed and which we can consider to be too dangerous. On the other hand, wherever one is on the planet, one must take his precautions. Some people prefer to stay close to home, others prefer to travel but will be careful. Everyone must accept their responsibilities. Is it a concern that is going on holiday right now? Yeah, it's school vacation now, the peak of travelling back and forth. On the other hand, we noticed in March that the Belgians go on holiday all year round. Mrs Sneppe, I have already explained what a bubble of five is and what one can do with ten people. In order to prioritise, there is the RAG opinion. Mrs. Taquin, the hospitals have regained their usual functions. This is important because treatments and operations had been delayed. Now we have to see how they can handle this situation. There were ten more hospitalizations today than yesterday. There are more hospitalizations, but there are also people leaving the hospital. We're talking about VOCID-19 patients and there's a daily report from the Hospital Search Group on the situation in 104 hospitals. The number of patients is therefore counted daily. There will be a difference in intakes of COVID patients between hospitals in the affected zones and hospitals outside. Then you know that there is also a possibility of a division. It was like that last time. Once a certain number has been exceeded, other hospitals can be emigrated. We arranged that transport in the interhospital group. We'll do it again now. We're actually dealing with relatively few hospitalizations. This is due to the fact that the age of patients affected by VOCID-19 has changed somewhat. Now they're younger, 20 to 59 years old. They used to be older. More people were seen in hospital and in intensive care afterwards. I was also asked if there were any other target groups. The answer is yes. These are people between the ages of 50 and 70. Many measures have been taken in nursing homes. We must continue to take it because many very old people are in our hospitals. Mrs Farih, you're talking about the airport authorities. We do have contact with airlines, but the airport authorities have no role to play in this. The PLF is a document drawn up by the Foreign Affairs Department and, above all, by Health, with the help of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Home Affairs. As far as enforceability is concerned, if one comes from a country where this is mandatory, then that document will have to be shown on his mobile phone or printed out. This must be completed 48 hours before the return journey begins. The only exception is for people who are less than 48 hours abroad. These are mainly people working across borders. We had thought of 24 hours at first, but we were given the example of someone who lives in Belgium but works in a hospital in Maastricht. If he's on watch at night until the next morning, that's 12:00 and that's two calendar days. He'd have to fill out a form every time. That's why we took 48 hours. This is also the case if you are going to have a treatment or shopping, but I do not know if this is still appropriate. The data available to Sciensano are the Epistat data. Those are the most detailed data. Sciensano has a whole methodology to analyse that data and transmit it almost in real time to where they should be. Mrs Farih, you also asked about the triage posts. I have already replied to your colleague that the King signed the royal decree last Thursday, so the Belgian Official Journal must do what is necessary. Mr De Vuyst, you have stressed very strongly the importance of first-line care and the role that the general practitioners have to play, whether it is a general practitioner working alone or in group or in Medicine for the People. Well, I do not know to what extent the general practitioners in Medicine are also represented for the People in the general practitioners' organizations. I'll check with Pedro Facon. The agreements are made with the representative general practitioners' organizations. There is a whole network of district health centers and Medicine for the People. I do not know to what extent they are represented. I wasn't syndicated myself. Watch stations and triage stations are very important. Mr de Caluwe, I think it is wise not to wait until September to start with the committee, because the second wave is now coming. We all hope that it will lie down as soon as possible. It is indeed wise to make recommendations now. We have also included a large number of recommendations in a plan of action for the second wave. Those recommendations are not static but dynamic. There is already a basic document. The committee may include these recommendations. I would like to know how you will organise this next Friday. Mrs Jiroflée, you say that we must accept responsibility for tracing. We did that. We have offered help through the database of Sciensano. We are also very closely involved in tracing through the Inter-Ministerial Conference. Philippe De Backer also works very hard on the Interfederal Committee led by Mrs Moykens. We cannot ignore the opinion of the Council of State, which states that we are not competent to do so. Reference is also made to previous decrees, decrees and state reforms. Then I come to the questions about the flu vaccines. Last year we needed 2.4 million flu vaccines. We had already ordered more back then. It was very difficult, but we have now managed to order another 500,000. That means we're up to 2.9 million. We also took part in a European joint procurement for another 500,000. However, we have to wait and see how many of them we will get, and Europe has not yet approved them, and I do not think that fate has yet been granted. Only three producers of flu vaccines have access to the market. We are trying through the agency to get vaccines out there, on the international market. But you should know that the previous contact a month ago warned that there is a multiple demand in Europe for 16 million flu vaccines. GSK once explained to me that it can only increase the production of flu vaccines if it knows that in advance for two years. So that will also be the case next year. Mr Bertels, you say politics is a team sport. That's right. Everyone has a role to play in this. A football team can have a star player, but if one footballer doesn't walk or doesn't do his job, it can't be scored. The team is only as strong as its weakest link. That is why we are all helping each other, because we have made it very difficult institutionally. We are faced with unforeseen problems, because certain powers have been transferred, but not filled in or vice versa. For example, we had to extend the protocol for Saniport. War as well as war against the virus. We must do all this because we owe it to our patients, to our public health and to the public interest. There must be good cooperation, by the administrations but also by the politicians, by everyone in the role he has to play. Perhaps we can learn an institutional lesson from this. I often hear references here to one command, but there are nine people on the boat of public health. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's We work together, and I will chair the interministerial committee until the beginning of September. Then the Presidency will be given to someone else. That's a rotating presidency. The secretariat is always staffed by the Public Health Office, formerly Mr Decoster. He's retired to run the crisis cell. He's a very valued civil servant, who knows his work. This crisis cell holds three meetings a week, starting with one per day. It is important that everything we now have new structures, new refunds, new ways of working, but also the scaling-up in phases, should be maintained. It may be the first pandemic we've seen after a long time, but that doesn't rule out the fact that we're going through that again. That is why a full analysis has been made of which services need to be strengthened in our administrations, how we should invest in them for the future. I'm in favour of a slimming of records, but in key positions, not just one man or woman should sit down for an effort that must take so long. An inventory has been made for all services and will be invested in them. Investing in a good, functioning administration Health is investing in everyone's health. Mr. Pardon, the chief medical officer, is fortunately a man with a lot of effort and energy. He used to have a shift of five doctors, now he's all alone. The chief medical officer's service is actually one person who always does everything. That can't be tolerated in the long term. There must also be more transfer of information and knowledge. We also need to lure young people back to our administrations. If they see what they can do about crisis management, it may be more attractive for some and perhaps not for others. I am very much in favour of investing in such services when it comes to monitoring public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u28	Mr De Backer, could you limit your speaking time to about 15 minutes? Then we still have time for the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u29	Mr President, I will try to respond as well and as comprehensively as I can, but I myself will be unable to do so from 5.30 p.m. If there are any questions left that would come in via e-mail, I commit myself to answering them this week to godly fruit and wealth. I'll respect the same order again. As far as testing is concerned, the numbers to which constant reference is made are those shown on Epistat. These figures are different from those found in the daily reporting of Sciensano. What's the difference? We had that debate a few weeks ago. The daily report of Sciensano, the daily report that you can download from the website with the epidemiological update, lists the total number of tests carried out per day. I base myself on those statistics, which I showed the beginning of my presentation. The figures in open data, in Epistat, are the figures that are being processed epidemiologically. This means taking out the doubles, taking out the people who have been tested several times and so on. This results in a figure corresponding to the number of people tested. We have, of course, tested a lot over the past few weeks and months. Therefore you will no longer find some of the doubles in the statistics. That explains the difference between the two figures, to which a number of Members refer, and the figures to which I refer. I would remind you, as I said earlier, that we had and clarified this debate a few weeks ago. I will once again urge Scienscano to make a clear adjustment to the heading of the figures. You can also see on the website of Our World in Data that countries report both the number of tests carried out and the number of people tested per day. I think we should do the same as soon as possible. As far as testing capacity is concerned, at locations where the labs are under pressure, for example in Antwerp, we can take over part of that test capacity with the federal platform. We run those tests in some kind of sub-contracting for the labs. It concerns about 2,000 to 3,000 tests per day that we still carry out in this way. Meanwhile, there are also streamlined processes for how labs can transmit those samples. The logistics behind it is absolutely not evident; it is about different reagents, different tubes, different wipers, different machines that are used. All this must be well coordinated, as a highly coordinated dance. As Minister De Block rightly pointed out, we are helping wherever it is necessary. One of the major problems that also emerged in Antwerp concerns effectively the triage centres. GPs work day and night, hospitals work day and night. If the applications for testing are really large, one is unable to scale up quickly. In the first instance, therefore, we are examining how the protocol agreement concluded between regional and federal authorities on who pays what is being honoured and implemented. This indeed concerns the first line and the sub-entities that should coordinate and follow the first line. The agreement there is that at least one triage point per 100,000 inhabitants remains active, which is not currently the case everywhere. We have had contacts over the past week to urge the triage points to be reopened. Coordination lies there with the sub-entities. We're helping with that, too. In Antwerp, we look at how this is done in the best way and how certain flows can be channeled at the request of doctors. For example, we are looking at separating the symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. At the same time, there is also the possibility to link triage centres to part of the capacity existing on the federal testing platform at that time. For example, several hundreds of tests will be added in Antwerp. Today I have also had contact with Minister Maron from Brussels, both on the triage points and on the additional test capacity available to Brussels. This was also about the lack of erasers, on which Mrs Depooster also had a question. I've been informed. There are labs that ordered thousands of wipers at the end of last week or early this week. They arrived today. That market is open and labs can supply themselves. It seems to me to be an operational issue rather than a lack of wipers on the market. This brings me to the next question, which was asked a number of times: what is the lead time of the testing and what are the issues there? What are the turnaround times today? At 90 % of the tests are reported within 24 hours, at 96 % of the tests are reported effectively within 48 hours. What about the tests that aren't in at that time period? That period of time is used as a standard internationally. The United Kingdom has this standard, as well as the Netherlands and France. So they are perfectly in line with international lead times, but of course we try to optimise the process as much as possible. Where does it go wrong all the time? Sometimes it takes a long time for samples to be collected from general practitioners or triage posts. In some cases, the samples go to a lab that has no capacity at the time and has to forward the samples to another lab or to the federal platform. Then some time is lost again in some cases. In analysis, the result is sometimes not clear and the analysis is repeated to make sure that the patient is infected or not. This is important in terms of quality control and may be a reason for delay. Sometimes the result is already in the system and the GP has not yet looked. Questions were also raised about this and we are investigating how we can improve the IT systems. Sometimes it's the lab too. Although the test is carried out at relatively limited time, it is not reported every day. That's a quality issue. The labs already received a letter two or three weeks ago asking for the results to be transmitted at least once a day, so that the database of Sciensano can be fed and the result passed on to the contact centers. That is much better now and also Sciensano gives almost real-time information to the call centers. The contact detection can therefore be a lot better. It's not just about contact detection, it's about source research. It is very important to map whereabouts and people's environment. I am the Minister of Privacy, which is an important issue, but that also applies to health. The balance can actually be made perfect and one simply needs to have the information that makes this source research possible. For too long, too strict an interpretation has been assumed. There are now opportunities created by communication with the Data Protection Authority, which has cleared this up. We need to strike a good balance in order to be able to do well and quickly on source research, in order to quickly find the origin of the cluster of infections. Of course, it helps to have a clear platform for this. I would like to point out that Sciensano manages the databases for the information sent by the regional authorities. Sciensano has a view of these data up to the level of the municipalities, but it has no idea of the names, addresses or other data behind them. This is a matter of regional competence. Sciensano hosts that database for the regions, but the analysis must be done through the regional health inspectors. This is why a data warehouse is being set up in Flanders to get this information to the mayors and the municipalities, so that everything can be better followed there, for example in consultation with general practitioners and in consultation with the local teams sent out by the Agency for Health and Health in Flanders and AViQ in Wallonia. In this way, a cluster analysis can be done much faster. This is also a request made at the interdepartmental committee a few days ago. If Flanders is really capable of implementing this data warehouse and data analysis system, I think it is in the interest of the other regions to join this project rather than create a new one. It is essential to work on this "Database 1", which includes all the elements and data needed to identify clusters as soon as possible. The testing strategy is the subject of many discussions. In my view, it is clear that we are applying a fairly broad system of case definition: it is enough to present a minimum of symptoms to be allowed to contact his general practitioner in order to be tested. We also test many asymptomatic patients, as part of the tracing of contacts as well as in nursing homes. Similarly, we test those who return from vacation. The question now is whether we can test more specifically and on a wider scale in case of an outbreak. Two weeks ago, I sought the opinion of the Risk Analysis Group (RAG) and the Crisis Economic Impact Assessment Group (ERMG) on this issue. Here saliva can play a role, and the key element is to find patients from whom a saliva sample can be taken. This is where the pack is hurting for the time being, as Maggie De Block pointed out, because it is not easy to find doctors and nurses at the regional level who can handle this task. Could we use nurses at home or students? As far as saliva is concerned, yesterday we received a preliminary report and are in the process of analysing it. Here too, this work requires a completely different logistics which requires, on the one hand, PCR tests and, on the other, some of the same reagents and machines as the other method. We must therefore seriously consider how to integrate this logistics into the overall testing strategy, which is why I asked the experts for their opinion. We really need to develop a targeted strategy for those regions where the increase in the number of cases is greatest. This will enable us to make a strong use of the capacity we have at our disposal. Capacity building effectively continues towards the 50 000 tests per day, which we will have to carry out during the flu season. Sometimes it'll be more than that. The efforts of the clinical labs are enormous. They make a lot of investments. They have done it in the past few weeks and will continue to do so. Even if testing is a regional competence according to the Council of State, we continue to manage it. The federal government has clear commitments from suppliers to provide and build up this capacity, on a single testing platform and an unambiguous IT platform and with clear lead times from the triage centre to the patient. Everything has to fit together nicely. There must be that capacity by early or mid-September. At the same time, we can continue to use the federal capacity that already exists on the existing hotspots and for any support that the regions ask for in the recovery in a rest home or in other places. There were several questions about everything that has to do with medication. I'll go to the FAGG and get a list of the medications they keep in stock and follow up. I'll get it to you so that you can be perfectly clear about it. There was also a specific question about paracetamol. I sent an e-mail to the FAGG to ask what is going on, whether a European notification has been received and whether the problems in the Netherlands have also been identified here. I'm not aware of that today. I checked. I'll get you the answer. As regards the figures for the distribution, home care was distributed and received a strategic stock. However, they can also obtain surgical masks or other materials simply on the market. The philosophy is that the various care providers and care providers supply themselves. For surgical masks, that can't be a problem at all. The FFP2 manufacturers are also a little easier to obtain at the moment, for example through pharmacists, who have already placed some orders, also for the care providers. The philosophy is that they take care of their own supplies. We have provided them with a strategic supply. As a federal government, we become a lender or last resort. The regional authorities have the same philosophy. We do not order according to the needs of the regional authorities. A few weeks ago a protocol agreement was made, under the auspices of the RMG, about who orders what and who keeps what. It's clearly agreed. Indeed, the kinesis are still to be delivered. A contribution was initially provided for through the professional costs. We will look into how we can provide the physicists with the package of protective materials that has also been sent to other healthcare providers in the coming weeks. Production in its own country is ongoing. There are two companies today that make surgical masks. The quality checks are good and passed. They started production. They've already delivered masks. I don't have the exact figures, but the production is started and running. An open call for tenders for an additional rolling stock will also be launched. Of course, a number of aspects of local production could also play a role in this. The regional authorities take charge of the communication campaigns often referred to to to ensure that contact tracing is conducted properly. That was agreed within the Consultation Committee. If someone is not reached, we need to look at the regional level for a more civilised campaign. Mrs De Block has made it very clear what it was about the triage centres. I also explained the differences between the two figures, the 17,000 per day and the 8,300. As far as the testing strategy is concerned, I tried to answer. For now, we're committed to strategy. It is, in my view, a very focused, intelligent strategy, too. She's being discussed with a lot of scientists around the table. It is clear that one of the key elements remains the identification of asymptomatic patients, as quickly as possible, not in the blind sense, but more directly in regions experiencing an outbreak. I also mentioned Brussels, which, if I am well informed after my contact with Mr Maron, will reopen some sorting centres. This is important, not only in order to avoid an increase in contamination in Brussels, but in view of the number of tests to be carried out in October, November, during the flu season. Indeed, once these sorting centres are installed and operational, they are able to respond to the need to test many more people than today. I spoke about the tests using saliva and tried again to explain where the various problems with the deadlines are. Ms De Block spoke about Passenger Rental Form, which will be mandatory and fully automated, digitized, as of August 1. However, in order to make contact tracing, the documents will also have to enter the databases of the federated entities. Obviously, we need to work together on this. This is what we are doing in the Inter-federal Committee to find solutions that give the Regions the opportunity to make a sharp, clear and fast tracing contact. I've already talked about the self-tests and the saliva tests. I covered the Sciensano report, too. The 15% of people who are not reached, which is followed by local teams, where people look at their homes. I have also talked about everything that has to do with delivery, with the philosophy of the lender or last resort and the Passenger Location Form. In the daily reporting of Sciensano there will be an effective overview per province. Also there one will be able to see how many tests were carried out in the last few days per province and what the (...) information is reported in the daily reporting you find on the website of Sciensano. As far as triage centres are concerned, we have both sent a clear message. The test strategy is of course important for detecting and identifying places where the virus is present, but tests do not protect against infection. It is absolutely essential to respect the basic aspects, such as hygiene, and to limit bubbles. This will lead to the virus being reduced. One can test as much as one wants, but once one test someone who is positive, it is already infected and one is actually already looking at a new cluster. It is important that we emphasise this. Even in countries that are very often referred to, which would supposedly have a better testing strategy or a better contact detection strategy than we are, I do not always agree with it, but I will agree with that reasoning......................................................................................................................................................................................... I refer to Germany. Singapore has already had two or three of them, also in Australia there is again a lot going on, as in South Korea. We are testing more than South Korea, by the way. I believe that we have a good strategy, that we have dealt with a lot of problems together in the field over the last few weeks, and that there is good cooperation. In Antwerp too, they were able to quickly find out where the clusters were and what the issues were and they quickly intervened. I think working together and seeing how we can solve the problems together is really the way forward. I agree with what Minister De Block said just now. Politics is a team sport, but then everyone has to do their job. If that doesn't happen, one gets either goals in, sometimes even an own goal when it's really disappointing, and occasionally one can score if one wants to shoot the ball forward or has a lucky shot. We must have a clear focus so that all noses point in the same direction. I feel like this is happening. I think that answers most of the questions. I want to say one more thing about the app. With regard to implementation, the inter-federal committee has determined the terms of reference for its development. I have no objection to making this information public, but I will inquire whether it is legally possible. I will do the same with regard to the road map of the development of the application. As I have always said during the crisis, transparency is necessary and we have always tried to give as much information as possible. We're going to keep this course of action.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u30	Minister, did you say anything about the level of contagion in areas at risk?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u31	No, I have not replied to that. I don't have those numbers today. I'll get them at Sciensano, see which people are being tested. I don't know if that's possible in the system, because people contact their GP when they get home and I don't know if travellers are currently registered separately. That will be clear with the Passenger Location Form, which is automated. But I'll be in touch. Mr President, if there are any further questions, I will be happy to answer them in writing or by e-mail, but for now I have to apologize.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u32	Thank you for being here. I understand Mrs De Block can stay until 6:00. We shall now proceed to the replies. We have a little less than half an hour, so I would ask you to be brief, two or three minutes per group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u33	Mr President, Minister, I have a few reservations. I did indeed ask about Flanders' figures in relation to Wallonia and Brussels, but my question was not whether those figures are higher, that is clear, but whether there is the same level of testing in all regions. If I make a quick calculation and compare the figures I received from Minister De Backer with the population, it seems that there is much more testing in Flanders than in Brussels and Wallonia. I propose that this be properly investigated and that the necessary measures be taken to find out why. As far as the time between test and result is concerned, I have not heard anything about a dispersal plan that might or might not be included. Is the test automatically sent to another lab when a particular lab has been over-questioned? I do not think this is the case, if I have listened to Minister De Backer correctly, as it is always delaying. I therefore urge the department responsible for the quality of Sciensano's labs to be involved, because it has the best view of the regular labs. Nor have I heard directly about targeted communication to the population groups or age groups where most outbreaks are found. I therefore urge that this be done. In order to stay with communication, almost every colleague says that communication needs to be improved. On the other hand, it may not be difficult for things to be so difficult because apparently everything had to be reinvented in this crisis, and then in the heat of the battle, and because there is still a lot of searching for who is responsible for what. It would have been better if this had been clear in advance. That is why our group has tabled a resolution today to ask for a current pandemic plan so that we are better prepared for the next epidemic or pandemic and so that we can use the precious time that has now been lost in the search for leadership and for the right strategies to carry out work on the ground and ensure uniform communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u34	I would like to invite all my fellow Members to study our resolution so that we can get to work on it and act firmly in Parliament. Madam Secretary, as you explain the social bubble and the event bubble, it's very simple. However, there is a major problem, in particular that you and the Prime Minister are completely opposed to each other. It's as simple as that. What you are explaining is contrary to the Prime Minister's explanation. The Prime Minister is assisted by Professor Van Ranst. Maybe you should have a conversation with him sometime. He says there's actually no second bubble, that it's a miscommunication. The National Security Council and the press conferences afterwards always give me and my family with five twenty-somethings fantastic conversations at the kitchen table, much better than playing Monopoly. No one knows what's been communicated and what to do. I can reassure you on one level, Madam Secretary. If we have to choose between you and the Prime Minister, you have five 20s who choose your quote, because they like to go to the bar. Madam Secretary, how can you expect our people to know what to do? How should our people abide by these rules if you and the Prime Minister do not agree if you and the Prime Minister do not talk to each other? Apparently it is not only difficult with the experts, but also between the politicians themselves. I would like to hear you say that nine health ministers are very difficult. We demand a unit of command, a clear communication. We are indeed going for the one Flemish Minister for Health. You always forget to say in your communication that there is a federal minister and a Flemish minister and that everything else works in Brussels and Wallonia and we really cannot explain now who is doing what. So we are very happy to be your partner to downsize, to ensure that we can tailor Flemish care. We should not strengthen services but reduce them so that we can spend our time and our money, not in the structures but in the patients and the care providers. They deserve that. Madam Minister, as far as the opinions of Celeval are concerned, there is indeed a difference between No. 62 and No. 64. However, if you are in opinion No. 62 did not follow the measure to go from 15 to 10 people in the bubble and close the bubble, then Celeval will in opinion No. Sixty-four, of course, are even more forceful. You're just not listening. Now, fortunately, you have listened, which I think is a very good thing. You have a partner with me for that. As far as the vaccination plan is concerned, I haven't heard anything about the COVID-19 vaccine. I didn't hear anything about the appointments. How many will we get? I didn't hear anything about keys and certainly not about guarantees, which really worries me. You have also referred to the recommendation of the Supreme Health Council. That arrived on 2 June and I asked you at the beginning of July what you were going to do with it. Now you say you've got it inside and you've finally asked for an opinion from the RAG. In the meantime, occupational health services have been over-questioned and there is already 30% more demand for vaccines than in previous years. The trial is ongoing and I hope you will not be too late, Madam Secretary. Finally, I did not receive an answer on the syringes and on the KBs for the missing medicines to be added on 2 February.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u35	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you in particular for the answer and for the recognition of care personnel, both financially and psychologically. It is really a heartfelt concern that both aspects are being considered. I certainly wanted to stress that again because if it is right, we will say so. As far as the people returning from risk areas are concerned, I have noted that the contamination rates are still being delivered. That information is important because we have fireplaces and we need to understand not only through contact tracing but also through that data the origin of the contamination and the way in which we can reduce it. Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for recognising the difficult situation in the Kempen. The Kempenaars appreciate that very much. You have also had the honesty to introduce some nuance in the masks and to point out the measures to be followed. Let's hope those masks won't give us a false sense of safety. As I said in my first speech, health is our priority, but we must also recognise that this virus will not be in one, two, three ways. It is therefore a very good decision to restrict social life but not economic. However, I would like to point out once again that some measures, especially at provincial level, are difficult to justify in this respect. Your answer also reads as a certain recognition of this because certain measures are taking the economy in the province of Antwerp and certainly in the Kempen. There's not a lot of substructure to say that this is protective. I find this difficult to justify and ask that we all want to monitor this in the future. Any measure which benefits public health can be justified. However, if it is not substantiated, I find it difficult to justify continuing to fish for very badly affected sectors such as our catering and our trade.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u36	Mr President, I would like to make a few brief points. I am confident that Celeval's advice last week was different than this week, but the experts were already very clear last week that the bubble of fifteen would not succeed. I'm stuck with the wretched feeling that we've lost a few days and that this will break us down. I am pleased that yesterday the experts' advice was followed. Today I also get the feeling through the press that there is a truce between experts and politicians and that they can go through one door again. What is absolutely necessary now, and I follow Minister De Backer in that, is to prevent us from having to do so many tests and that the infections continue to increase. The golden key there is clear communication. I'd love to hear you say it, Madam Secretary, but it's actually very simple: the bubble of five. Everything else, you keep your distance. I honestly don't understand what's so hard about that. One last call. It is very good that attention should be paid to care for those who care, the mental care for the health sector, who are panicking too quickly and need to take action again. Let us certainly not forget the mental health of all those who crawl back into their quarters and are isolated again. We have adopted a very fine resolution on this. I call on you to do this quickly. Thank you for having answered our questions and thank you to the services for making this possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u37	Mr President, I thank the Ministers for their very concrete and quite reassuring answers; they show that there is a willingness to go much further in the testing strategy. But the testing strategy is obviously not enough to stem a pandemic. It's teamwork. We're all in the field. We heard above all yesterday, in communication, that measures should be tightened up for the population. These measures are hard enough for people. These are holidays, and their freedoms are reduced again. On the other hand, we have not heard any voluntarism from the authorities. It's giving and giving. Some are defending, others are attacking. We are waiting for the authorities to play in attack as well. That is where we want a testing strategy, because it is really the authorities that are implementing it. We also want a communication strategy. In this regard, I am quite frankly on my hunger. I have not heard a proactive and concrete policy to improve this communication, which remains essential for everyone to play their part on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u38	Mr President, I am not as satisfied as the previous speaker on testing. For example, I will ask Minister De Backer in writing, as he has left us, what is the status of serological tests, and what has become of the order for 3,600,000 serological tests at ZenTech. We can't hear it at all. I am not reassured about the willingness to really extend the tests to those who wish to do so on a voluntary basis. We still have the idea of testing where the numbers are blazing, where there are risks, but we do not adopt the idea of testing people at risk, etc. I'm not satisfied yet with what I've heard. Beyond this, the issues of coherence and communication that have already been addressed, I am concerned that such important measures for the Belgian population as a whole depend on the political choices of certain mayors who are accountable only to the voters of their own commune. It seems to me that the federal government should be at the helm more broadly and that it should in any case issue means and directives to be more effective or more coherent. In short, there should be a genuine national leadership of the crisis. Ms. De Block said that everyone was responsible and that there were nine captains in the ship. If we really want to face the second wave, each captain has to play a very specific role and we're not there yet. I am also surprised by the lack of strict measures where the figures are rising. We have the impression that we are being announced with spectacular measures, but they are relatively symbolic. We could have imagined making it mandatory to wear the mask everywhere, but we didn't want to take this initiative. It will be compulsory in part, in some cities or neighbourhoods and not in others. This does not allow for clarity and only when measures are clear and well understood that they can be properly applied by our citizens. I would also like to raise the issue of curfew at 11.00 p.m., which some have decided. Let me laugh! In other cities, some mayors decided that at 10:00 p.m. nothing could happen. A curfew at 11:00 is almost an incitement to debauchery! A curfew could be decided at 7:00 p.m. or 8:00 p.m. But at 11:00, we don't protect people like that. There are decisions that are inconsistent. In addition, there is little information on outbreaks and chains of contamination. For the first wave, holiday returns were really at the source of strong and rapid contamination. Here, there is a lack of information on how things are going, at least in Antwerp. Personal activities and personal freedoms are largely restricted by measures that limit the bubble to five people and events to ten people. I also note that there is no additional protection for business activity. That is not mentioned. However, according to trade union organisations, since the beginning of the crisis, 85% of companies have not complied with the rules of distancing and continue to operate without concern. They do not give sufficient masks or hydro-alcoholic gel to their staff. There too, we could find outbreaks of contamination. As for telework, it has decreased considerably. I hear it's recommended again. There are still efforts to see how it can be implemented and how it can be made a reality. I had a question about the federal platform that, according to Minister De Backer, was to close at the end of September. Are you going to keep the closure on that date? If so, how will communities then be organized? I think extending it would be an excellent initiative. Finally, I would like to point out that Wallonia has 44 active sorting centres – which is far above the standard – and 10 centres waiting for activation, if necessary. I also have a thought for the health care staff, who must see these first figures with starkness, as well as a request for staff availability. We know all the difficulties that hospitals have experienced, as well as accommodation and care institutions such as nursing homes. In the event of a rebound, will it be possible to move caregivers on a voluntary basis? Let us try to make positive proposals, because citizens and workers tend to react in numbers when things are presented to them positively or when it is necessary to help an institution that is in need and which requires the presence of caregivers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u39	Thank you, Madam Minister, for the answers I have received and the clarification, but unfortunately I have not received a number of answers either. I did not get an answer to my question about the list, including how you will quantify and present the risk groups. Nor have you answered me how you will protect our weakest and most vulnerable. Unfortunately, that's a bad omen. Hopefully, after the mouth mask debacle, no vaccine debacle will follow. Hopefully you will take the matter to heart and treat it as a priority. I also did not receive an answer to the question of the state of health. How much loss is there? What's the status of our caregivers? Have they been recovered enough to withstand the second wave? I also did not get an answer to my question as to how you will maintain the strict corona rules next Friday and next weekend at the Sacrifice. It is because certain groups cannot or do not want to comply with corona rules that an entire province and indeed an entire country is punished by stricter rules. Madam Secretary, put your hand in your own bosom. If the problem doesn't get a name, the problem doesn't exist. Just because of your politically correct thinking, you cannot name the problem. You certainly do not want to be stigmatized and get the label of racist stuck up. Now, finally, call a cat a cat and deal with the problem where it's rice. You do not dare to tackle the hotbeds, the hotbeds that we now know are mainly in certain ethnic communities, but also in the Black Lives Matter demonstrations. You didn't want to take it out of fear of riots. What are you doing? You will tackle family barbecues or the lone jogger in the forest or the lone cyclist. So you make an entire province or a whole country pay for the mistakes of a small group. You're making the entire population pay for your lax and incoherent policies. That is the real problem, a problem which unfortunately counts almost 10,000 deaths. On behalf of my party, I would like to call again for correct and firm measures, adapted to local entities. What's the point of wearing a mouth mask when you walk alone in the woods? Well, I guess that's what it's supposed to be now. You'll have to explain that to me again. Strict and firm measures and strict but fair action in breaking the rules are needed, because there too the shoe is pinching. It's the only way we can stop the virus and save people's lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u40	I would like to thank the ministers for their answers and explanations. We will, of course, continue to monitor the situation on a day-to-day basis and will not hesitate to return to you if necessary. I take this opportunity to thank the services and to express our support to all caregivers in the broad sense of the term.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u41	Mr President, Minister De Backer is no longer here, but I would have liked to have the list of medicines that he wants to put in place sufficient stocks to combat the corona virus. I am also pleased to hear that Belgian production is going well and that we are meeting the quality requirements, but I will still put forward a follow-up request to find out how much production capacity is now effective and what about the national strategic stock. There have also been few figures, which leaves me with a few questions. As far as post-travel testing is concerned, Minister De Block has tried to give me an answer, but actually my question was more addressed to Minister De Backer. I wonder how compelling we can make testing for people who have travelled. How do we enforce it, if necessary, and how do we control it? The Minister is talking about a test capacity of 50,000. It's been so communicated since May. However, in June only 30,000 passengers arrived via the airports. Why can't we use the test capacity we still have on surplus to prevent testing at our airports, just as they do in Greece, Taiwan and Aruba, for example? I will put a follow-up question on this and hope to get a positive answer. We have test capacity, we must do everything we can to prevent the disease from being detected in order to safeguard the health of citizens in our country and to protect them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u42	Thank you for the answers you both gave, but I'm still a little hungry. I have heard you say first and foremost, implicitly, but sometimes also explicitly, that the consultation you have to hold with a lot of ministers and many institutions at different levels makes the procedure very cumbersome. Our country is institutionally complex. Exceptional situations require exceptional measures. That's why I want to put my finger on the wound again. Get a unit of command. Make sure that a federal corona commissioner, who is above politics, can play briefly on the ball and take the necessary measures. I have also heard you both refer to the local level, which is very important. I am thinking of the first-line zones and the general practitioners. You also admit that they have an important role to play. The most efficient results are also achieved there, including in the field of testing. You gave the triage center as an example. Just at that level, there is also great frustration. Many general practitioners feel that there is not enough support from the different governments. Once the watch stations and triage centres are saturated, the initiative lies again with the general practitioners. Surely the intention is to allow local tracing to descend into the first-line zones and no longer to take place from a central dispatching? Locally one can map the clusters much better. It is also much better to find out where there are outbreaks. I do not understand why people keep hiding behind all these levels, because the protocols are there. The experience is there. Trackers and home visitors are trained. It's not nuclear physics. Why are we waiting for a better performance of the central contact tracing, if there is a much more efficient model, namely the local contact tracing? I didn't get an answer to my question about mental health care. The tightening of measures has yet again had an impact on the mental health of many people, especially young people and teenagers. Initiatives were recently taken in Parliament, which were unanimously accepted. I am thinking of the resolution to make it easier to access and invest in low-threshold psychological care. In addition, an emergency budget of EUR 67 million was released in response to the COOVID-19 crisis. When and how will you proceed with this? You had a question about Medicine for the People. Medicine for the People is represented in local general practitioners and also a separate member of Domus Medica. In this sense, Medicine is represented for the People in the care landscape.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u43	Thank you, Mr De Vuyst. Mrs. Taquin is asking for an apology. She is in a meeting with the governor and mayors of Hainaut. She was still following us, but was not in a position to intervene here in the second round. Mr De Caluwé, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u44	Mr President, there has been some talk of communication lately. That is always a difficult fact; I also notice it in my congregation. If there's one case where there's always a comment, it's communication. That seems to me to be a very difficult science, hat off for people studying communication sciences. Part of the confusion around all the communication that has happened is sometimes caused by people who have just sued the bad communication. I am thinking, for example, of journalists. If there has been a press conference, they will seek an expert who claims otherwise to be able to provoke a discussion. Then people don't know what was decided or what was right or what wasn't. That is one aspect. A second aspect concerns the virologists themselves. They regularly give interviews before decisions are made and the decision taken sometimes deviates from the advice given by the expert in the journal. The experts also change their minds once in a while, they forget that. I just looked up a newspaper article, an interview in De Morgen on 17 February with one of the virologists. I would like to quote: "First of all, there was a need for concern, but now we are turning a mosquito into an elephant. The measures are now worse than the virus itself." That was on February 17, before there was an effective lockdown in our country, because it only came a month later. The same virologist stated a week ago that a lot of time has actually been lost. We've seen that person, a professor, in the news on a regular basis. Sometimes it is said that ministers minimize things or do not listen to experts, but there is also a moving insight among experts. That's not meant to be a criticism, which makes sense. If the Minister says in March that the virus is no more deadly than the common flu, it is because the experts said so at the time. In the same interview on 17 February, the same expert/professor stated that the virus should not be exaggerated, that it is not more deadly than the regular seasonal flu. As I have said, I certainly do not wish to condemn this, because the experts make such a statement at that time on the basis of the information available to them. We are now actually looking back at how to deal with the crisis with the information we have at our disposal today. That is a big difference from the virologists and ministers who have to take decisions on the basis of the information they have at that time. Sometimes mayors also cause confusion. At the beginning of the crisis, the national directive was very clear: it was only allowed to come out to move. We were told not to sit on a couch. Some mayors said, however, that they didn't see why they shouldn't. As mayor, people are confused and they say that the national rules are not being enforced. A number of people have to put their hands in their own bosoms now and then. I'm a mayor myself. Perhaps I too have minimized a number of decisions or underestimated a number of issues relating to the coronavirus. I don't feel too bad about admitting that. However, we must bear in mind that in the beginning knowledge of the virus was not the same as it was today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u45	Mrs. Jiroflée had to leave us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u46	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to join in the last words. I thank you for the information and organisation, but that is how we learn every day. If we are to learn every day, we must do something with it, which is important. This must be done in a good, correct and timely way. We must continue to do so. I'll come back to the metaphor of team sport. We must do this as a team, all together, the whole population, but we must all set an example. This does not mean that we should not criticise, but that we should give positive criticism so that we can all get out together. Clear and unambiguous communication is important for this. I think we all agree on that. I am very grateful and grateful to Minister De Backer for wanting to provide transparency with regard to the allocation of the contract on the Belgian app, because that is what is needed. We must create confidence there and eliminate mistrust. A number of colleagues referred to this and I think that you need to step up your efforts, Madam Minister: we have indeed adopted a good resolution on mental health. Parliament has also provided money for mental health care. We must do something about the consequences of the social lockdown, because we now have a social lockdown, both for the population and for the care staff who are going to be faced with the possible consequences of a second wave. We must support them and use the resources available for the better. We must prepare ourselves for this, so that these resources can be used on the ground. Madam Minister, I fully agree with you that a strong government is absolutely necessary in certain respects. If we can learn one thing from the pandemic and create a pandemic plan, it is that there is a need for strong government in certain areas. When something like this happens, people look at the government. Certain critical functions.. anyone who does crisis management knows that, every mayor knows that.. can't be exercised with one man or woman. It gives that man or woman a task that is not human. That is what we need to invest in. We must not invest in structures for the sake of structures, as Mrs Depoorter said. That's not the point. However, one must invest in structures and in the people who man the structures or women, which are needed when something happens. We must do this in advance and not after something has happened. We need to prepare for that. A strong government with a public service must invest in this. These are useful investments that earn themselves back incredibly hard when they need to be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u47	That's what everyone's been talking about. I have a point of my own. Several Members spoke about this. You did not answer the question of mental health, Madam Minister, but perhaps you can do so in writing later. Mr Kraewinkels is here. You got an e-mail. He must have listened with interest. This needs to be addressed, because mental health, especially with the measures that have now been taken, is an important issue. We have had discussions, hearings and resolutions on this matter. Perhaps you should say a few words or come back to that later, Madam Secretary? I would like to thank the Ministers and Members for their presence. We may have to meet again during the holiday, depending on the evolution of the situation. I would like to thank all the staff for their presence, the secretariat, the Integrated Report, the technical services, the translation services, for allowing this additional meeting of our committee to take place. Madam Secretary, would you like to say a few words?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u48	Mr President, I have a next meeting. I'd like to leave. I'll provide the necessary information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u49	Thank you, Minister De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u50	Mr President, my name was mentioned. I would like to contradict Mr Bertels. Of course, we need structures, but we need slender structures that are close to our patients, and tailored care. I think you're in complete agreement with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u51	Mrs. Depoorter, that is not a proper performance. We need slender structures, but we need them in the positions they need. Some positions are now too much cut off. I'll try to put that diplomatically. Is that supposed to be a big government? That must be a government that's strong where it needs to be strong. That's what we need. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u52	I think we agree with that, but perhaps we could have another discussion on the level at which it should be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-28-55-commissie-ic248x.u53	You can discuss this further after this committee meeting, if you wish. I thank everyone for their contribution to this meeting.
