ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that we have already had a debate with many suggestions and questions on our part, I would like to propose that we first give the floor to the Minister. In this way she can give her conclusions or initial insights about what she has heard. Of course, she can also answer the 24 questions that were previously sent to her. After that, Members can replicate and debate with the Minister. I think this would help the dynamics of our debate. After all, if we are going to read out 24 questions now, I fear it will be less interesting. Can you agree to that, dear colleagues? If you have any objection, please report it now. Madam Minister, the proposal is that you intervene at this stage to give your conclusions or ideas on the debate that we have just heard and at the same time to give your answers to the 24 questions on the agenda that you have the content of.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u2	Mr President, I welcome all the speakers in the committee, both the Members of Parliament and their illustrious chairman, as well as all those who are to be heard today, who have spoken on a very dense and very interesting subject which I know a great deal about. To the extent that the work of our committee is organised in the form of a mini-debate on the consequences of the VOCID-19 crisis, which is also a follow-up to the hearings which began this morning at 10 a.m. and which will continue with your questions, I have combined, in the literal and noble sense of the term, the entire input of the various speakers and the answers to the questions which I intend to make to you, in order to give a comprehensive answer taking into account the evolving nature of the management of the current crisis. I have therefore structured my answer in five points. First of all, a general introductory preamble. Secondly, a theme on energy, environmental and climate impacts that fall within my competence. There is also a theme on post-crisis management or guidance on these energy and climate aspects, also covering European and international aspects. Fourthly, I provide ad hoc answers to questions that are not directly or less directly related to the management of the coronavirus crisis. The fifth point is a conclusion. If you agree that I am proceeding in this way, I will tell you that since the beginning of the pandemic crisis and the fight against the spread of coronavirus, my priorities have been as follows. In the field of energy, continue to ensure security of energy supply in the broad sense. That's my top priority. Secondly, ensuring energy accessibility, i.e. an affordable energy bill for households and businesses. Thirdly, as a corollary, for the organised electricity and gas markets, ensure the proper functioning of the energy markets by identifying in time any measures to be taken on the recommendation or proposal, or both, of the CREG. In view of the characteristics of this crisis and its temporary aspect, I hope, it is necessary to ensure that the energy markets are ready to respond to any increase in energy demand at the end of the crisis. The various speakers explained, each according to their own views, that the stakeholders in the market had adapted well and that they did not foresee any difficulties at the end of the crisis, when consumption would gradually increase. It's already a good message. Since the competence is attached to that of Energy, but is sometimes forgotten, I would like to stress that I must also ensure security of supply for medical radioisotope and the entire supply chain linked to it, both at international and national level, given Belgium's major role in the production of these radioisotopes. That's for Energy. I now turn to Climate, Environment and Sustainable Development, my other three competencies. There is no acute seizure at this time in relation to coronavirus. The situation is monitored and I must ensure at all times that there is a concern for a sustainable transition, which must be taken into account, I insist, in the recovery plan to which I shall refer later. Of course, I assure myself of the proper functioning of the administrations and the organisations with which I am responsible, i.e. the correct implementation of measures to combat the pandemic and the continuity of services. This is why a monitoring group was set up to monitor all services during the crisis. This group gives me a weekly report, I'll come back to it. The particular framework and context of crisis management deserve a moment's attention. As a reminder, I would like to say that the federal government is focusing its action and priorities on managing the health crisis and is continuing to carry out day-to-day business. The federal phase of the national emergency plan was triggered by the Ministerial Order of March 13, 2020, which triggered the federal phase on the coordination and management of the VOCID-19 crisis. The ministerial decree on emergency measures to limit the spread of coronavirus was put in place on 18 March 2020, repealed and replaced by that of 23 March 2020; it has since been amended several times, as you know. This, in order to allow for more targeted application of certain measures. This ministerial decree defined a series of businesses, enterprises, public and private services necessary to protect the vital needs of the Nation and the needs of the population. The majority of the actors in the energy sector that fall under federal jurisdiction are included in this list. Indeed, energy is a crucial element that is one of the sensitive sectors to monitor extremely carefully during this crisis. To conclude this point, I would mention the laws of 27 March 2020 enabling the King to take measures to combat the spread of the coronavirus VOCID-19 1 and 2, and to make royal decrees of special powers. What is the overall impact of this crisis on the energy sectors? In a global way, before returning to it more precisely, the energy sectors – as you have noticed – are not as such at the heart of the crisis, because the impact of the VOCID-19 crisis remains limited. As all stakeholders have pointed out, security of supply is not affected, consumption – and I would say so much better – is limited, in relation to the current economic context and containment; the fundamentals of the sector are robust – for the time being, in the short term in the crisis, and in the medium term, in the event that the crisis persists, evolves as well as for the exit from crisis. In general, therefore, activities continue. We continue to build wind farms and we do not report delays in timing. We maintain the power plants and, in the case of pharaonic works for the LTO of Doel 1, Doel 2 and Tihange 1, there are sometimes time lags which are purely related to technical contingencies which have no connection with the crisis for the reopening and reconnection on the network of these extended power plants. Markets are functioning and supply is free from disruption and risk, and does not generate any specific fear. The crisis obviously impacts a series of operational activities of companies and organisations active in the sector. They have all immediately implemented their continuity plan, and they are, of course, faced with a series of daily and operational problems, but not in such a way as to challenge their fundamentals, which is good news. Given the evolving nature of the pandemic – and therefore the evolution of the measures to combat the spread of the virus – we must always remain vigilant. This is what we do with my administration, my firm and all the bodies that collaborate with me, in my skills. It will also be necessary to pay close attention to the post-crisis situation and the possible medium-term or structural effects, and the Government's activities are therefore continuing on the programme for the management of the health crisis and the execution of day-to-day affairs. Therefore, we are also continuing – and I will say a moment ago about the proposal made by our colleague Michel De Maegd – our work on the CRM, the offshore, on all the measures to be taken following the Constitutional Court's ruling on the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, etc. What are the conclusions? To do this, I would like to make the link, and I am not going to read to you certain elements that you will find on the website of the ERMG – the Risk Management Group that was set up for this economic crisis – with some fundamental aspects that are mentioned by this group regarding companies that are also active in my sector. As a reminder, in order to analyse and combat the economic consequences of the Coronavirus/COVID-19 crisis, the government decided on 19 March to create the ERMG, which brings together in one of its monitoring units several socio-economic actors, including the National Bank and the Plan Office, and which also relies on representatives of the economic world, the social partners and experts. It is structured into several sub-groups – as I have just said – and its mission is to measure the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, to look after particularly critical businesses and infrastructures – and we have them – so that our country continues to function – it is business continuity – and to propose measures to the government to combat this crisis, and to play a coordinating role in this regard. It is in this context that we are in contact with the ERMG. The main objective of the ERMG is to propose measures in favour of businesses, self-employed persons and households so that they can overcome this crisis, and that the economy can restart very quickly, as soon as the spread of coronavirus is stopped. The crisis – as you know and we will never repeat enough – has a huge impact on socio-economics, and the ERMG expects the facts to be of a rather temporary nature. A hearing of the ERMG was held in the Economy Committee last week, and you will be able to find interesting elements in the report which will be available tomorrow afternoon. Once the crisis has passed, the ERMG will continue to work and focus on the sustainable recovery of our economy, businesses and self-employed. At this hearing in the Committee on the Economy, which I am talking about, the ERMG drew general conclusions which also apply to the energy sector. First, actions during the crisis should be differentiated from post-crisis actions. Secondly, during the crisis, the following particular elements should be considered: the liquidity risk of companies in certain sectors and the importance of properly targeting measures. After the crisis, there will be a risk of economic unemployment that could shift from temporary to structural. Employment policies will therefore have to be put in place. Given the characteristics of this crisis and a robust economic infrastructure prior to the crisis, the measures that could be recommended should be powerful but highly targeted and temporary. The interface between VOCID-19 Energy Task Force services and crisis management bodies, including RMG, as well as the energy sectors, is in place. Through bodies such as the DGE, which prepares some reports, I can access and make recommendations directly to the RMG. I have also raised concerns about this crisis from my administration, via the VOCID-19 Energy Task Force. What are the impacts? I have completed my general presentation and come up with elements that answer your questions. I'll give you the number of the questions so you can find yourself there. I shall begin with questions Nos 55004851C and 55004851C. Van Quickenborne, No. 55005347C of Mrs Dierick, No. 55005471C of Mr. De Maegd and No. 55005570C by Mr Warmoes. This concerns the impact of the crisis on the energy sector and on federal energy policy in the short and long term, the necessary measures, the postponement of the start-up of Doel 1 and Doel 2 and the reduction of consumption. As far as security of supply is concerned, on the basis of the information collected by my administration – which makes a weekly report to me – and within the framework of my expertise, my administration and I are in daily contact with the market players, with Elia, the CREG and all the people you have heard today. That's my reaction to this morning's auditions. I still note today that no security of supply problem is expected, that demand is about 20% lower than last year at the same time, that the adoption of the VOCID-19 measures has had a significant effect on economic activity, which has led to a significant reduction in electricity consumption, that market participants have adapted well because they anticipated its effects by taking measures to balance their portfolios taking into account this reduction in demand and that the balance of the network has been ensured without major difficulties. Prices are much lower than in previous years as well as online absenteeism compared to the same period last year. Currently, the existing market mechanisms are working properly – as usual – and are sufficient to ensure network balance. The availability of the production fleet is good. Electrabel informed the market via REMIT that Doel 1 and Doel 2 had been delayed from one month to one and a half months. Offshore producers mention that they frequently have to adapt to ensure network balance due to low demand, but this does not call into question the construction of the parks for 2020 since for Northwester 2 and Seamade, everything is going as planned. The abolition of the VOCID-19 measures will, at the end of the crisis period, lead to a revival of economic activity which will lead to an increase in consumption. This removal of measures will be the subject of a communication by the Head of Government, which will allow market players, as the deconfinity progresses, to anticipate and adapt in order to balance their portfolios. For transport, Elia dispatchings are available and operational at 100%. FEBEG mentions impacts associated with low price and low demand, the risk of increased unpaid invoices. She reports an increase in the workload on call centers. The effect is also felt on the liquidity of gas and electricity companies and requires pre-financing of certain costs (network charges, taxes and other contributions). They made a request for a risk allocation. Here's the electricity. For gas, there is no security of supply problem. Demand is about 20% lower than last year at the same time. Prices are much lower than in previous years. The filling rate of the Loenhout storage infrastructure is historically high (over 70%). We have a very stable situation for oil. There are no security of supply issues. Demand for transport fuel decreased by 40 per cent. Sales at stations decreased from 70 to 80 per cent. Demand for fuel oil, which had temporarily increased in the light of low prices, was extinct. This is a simple reaction of consumers to an economic opportunity, and it is not the signal of a supply crisis as such. The deposit filling rate is 50-60% and will increase further in the coming weeks. As far as the price of energy is concerned, in addition to the elements I have already mentioned, let me give you some more precise considerations on the prices of electricity and gas, and the supply of suppliers. Short-term prices are declining in wholesale markets, not only because of the very mild temperatures and low oil prices in recent months, but also because of the containment measures imposed by the government. For electricity, the average price fell between January and April 2020. From 1 to 14 April 2020, at the day-ahead (day-to-day) market, it decreased by 58 %; at the monthly market level, it decreased by 54 %; at the quarterly market level, it decreased by 21 %; at the annual market level, it decreased by 14 %, for the last three I have just mentioned forward markets. For gas, the average monthly price decreased between January and April 2020. For the period from 1 to 14 April, it decreased by 36% on the stock exchange. The CREG also notes that, in all regions, the price of new electricity and natural gas suppliers' offers had also fallen significantly. At the beginning of the last quarter of 2020, namely now, average fixed prices and average variable prices have fallen for a whole year to the lowest level observed today. As far as fixed products are concerned, the decline has been fairly gradual throughout the year. Fixed prices for electricity and gas fell by around 13 % and 23 % respectively in Belgium, as Mr Jacquet said earlier. The fall in the price of variable products has been less gradual for the simple reason that the price for the end user only changes at the time of quarterly and monthly indexation. Variable prices for electricity and gas decreased by 18 and 30 per cent, respectively, as stated by CREG through Mr. Jacquet. Although this analysis needs to be further developed, it indicates, on the one hand, that the functioning of the market is sound and that it must be preserved for the future. On the other hand, this highlights the problem of consumers who have subscribed to dormant products, which have been much discussed thanks to the questions you have asked. The price conditions applied to these dormant products are generally no longer at all in line with current market conditions. Yet, unfortunately, they are paid by hundreds of thousands of consumers. Hence the interest of CREG to continue to work with my department on solutions to encourage change in this situation. I come to the impact of wholesale prices on the energy bill. Wholesale prices are the prices of the markets which are formed every day by the encounter between supply and demand on the European market. These wholesale prices are the basis of the indexing parameters that are used by suppliers in the price formulas for products with variable energy prices. In the last quarter, from January to March 2020, negative prices were recorded on the Belpex Day Ahead Market. Specifically, according to CREG, in the last quarter, 18 of the 2,183 hours were marked by a negative price. Of these 18 negative price quotations, 15 took place in March 2020 and 3 in February 2020. All suppliers active in the retail segment and using a Belpex indexation parameter have correctly integrated these negative price quotations into their recent month price offer. However, these negative ratings did not result in the application of negative indexing parameters. Indeed, indexing parameters are calculated as an average of price quotations on, for example, a month or a quarter, so that recent negative price quotations are incorporated into the average with positive price quotations. Indexing parameters are an essential parameter of the price formula for products with variable energy prices. Suppliers cannot simply make unilateral changes. I now turn to a series of other questions put to me by Mr Ravyts (No. 55005343C), Mrs Dierick (No. 55005347C), Mr Verduyckt (No. 55005384C), Mrs Van der Straeten (No. 55005566C and No. 55005567C) and Mr Warmoes (No. 55005570C). These questions concern the effect of overproduction on price. What are the challenges to the functioning of the market? What is modulation? What are the links and effects in the merit order? What is Elias' vision of modulation? What about the revision of Doel 1 and Doel 2? What is my action to request the postponement of Doel 1 and Doel 2? What is my action to temporarily reduce Electrabel's production? With regard to Mrs Demir and the letter she sent me, I would like to tell you right away that I still do not have a letter from her to date. So there is no answer. The questions also concern priority access for renewables and solutions, consultation with Elia and producers, how to guarantee and optimize the market, gaps or lack of such in legislation, regulation of the market to avoid penalisation of small suppliers, and possible abuses of Electrabel. Many answers have already been given to you by the speakers. The questions also concern the results of the analysis of the CREG survey on the functioning of markets and modulation, and a request to receive more information from CREG. All this has been delivered to you. Finally, to reply, for my part, with regard to modulation and in particular the situation of nuclear power plants, Doel 1, Doel 2 and Tihange 1 units are at a standstill for planned revisions. You know that. The operator, Electrabel, announced to the market, via REMIT, that for Doel 1 and Doel 2, the revision schedule has been revised according to the measures relating to the corona virus, in accordance with the rules of social distancing. This involved a delay of the order of a month to a month and a half. These rules are of course also, I repeat, applicable in our companies, even the most important or critical companies. The operator Electrabel also informed me that the possibilities of modulation are always conditioned or subject to technical aspects which fall within the scope of compliance with the nuclear safety rules laid down in the operating procedures and authorisations. Mr. Frank Hardeman explained this to you in length and wide. With regard to the four nuclear units currently in operation, Electrabel indicated that modulation is not possible for Doel 4 and Tihange 3, as their fuels arrive at the end of the cycle and they will be shut down respectively from 5 and 6 June. As regards Doel 3 and Tihange 2, the possibility of modulation is, according to the operator, limited and reserved only for situations of last resort, where the safety of the electricity network would pose risks. Nuclear power plants can obviously be modulated, but they are technically limited. I have already told you last Thursday in plenary, Mr Verduyckt: Engie does not modulate, for the moment, despite the negative prices currently observed, whereas Engie module generally in this case. It should be noted that gas-fired power plants also produced electricity during this period, while prices were negative, albeit at a much lower capacity. This is explained by the fact that some production plants such as cogeneration units continue to operate because they have to provide heat to the industry. Other power stations, such as TGV units, continue to operate at maximum capacity because they must provide the necessary capacity for the secondary reserves provided for in the law. Finally, wind turbines responded by reducing their production, while a surplus was found on Easter Monday. This reaction was in all likelihood voluntary, triggered by financial incentives for negative imbalance prices. I also told you in plenary last Thursday, the CREG told me to follow closely the behaviour of market players. In particular, it addresses issues of modulation. As regards your questions regarding the revision of Objectives 1 and 2, Article 5 of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2011 on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market, known as the REMIT Regulation, prohibits... market manipulation or attempts at market manipulation. The aim of REMIT is to create a European regulatory framework specific to the wholesale market, to improve its functioning and to prevent and, where appropriate, punish abuse, i.e. market manipulation or insider abuse. The aim is therefore to avoid any behaviour leading to unfair competition and to undermine the confidence of energy market participants. In this way, the determination of prices on the wholesale market should be based on a concrete interaction between supply and demand. In this area, the CREG derives its powers from the REMIT Regulation. Last Thursday I replied that the CREG has indeed found that ENGIE Electrabel does not modulate its nuclear production during this period. The CREG has asked questions about this, which is not unusual. At the moment, the CREG is making an analysis and your questions are therefore a little premature. Except for the fact that the CREG has provided us today with additional evidence which tends to prove that there is no market manipulation. With regard to the question of contact with ENGIE, would Article 5 of REMIT allow for market manipulation? If I were to comply with your request, we could be subject to the next CREG investigation into market manipulation. For Mrs Demir, I do not have an answer yet. With regard to low or even negative prices in wholesale electricity markets, electricity prices on the short-term market (day-ahead market) are historically low. This is the result of the functioning of the electricity market where supply and demand meet. In the current circumstances, demand is lower than in the past, both in Belgium and in neighbouring countries. Belgium is not an exceptional example on an island, unlike other European countries that would experience significant demand. The prices of electricity on the markets are formed on a space interconnected with our neighbouring countries. The phenomenon emerging on the markets is not Belgian, but rather representative of an interconnected reality in this sector, which must always be taken into account, with little storage capacity and a permanent balance between supply and demand which must be respected, or else cause serious damage. The wholesale electricity market responds to both supply and demand. It is adequate to give the signals ensuring the selection of the most relevant means of production to cover the level of demand sought. This is important in relation to the issues of market access for energy sources. It should be noted that since the containment measures, the day-ahead market has experienced several hours when the closing was at a negative price. This means, in particular, that the producers selected in this market to cover the demand for the given time at the given time considered it more economical to pay for their production than to stop it. This shows that the costs of rebooting power plants, technical constraints on shutting down or restarting units or capacities to reduce production, or the fact that certain producers benefit from production subsidies – this is renewable – which encourage them to produce under any circumstances, or, on the contrary, to be a reaction that can be triggered by financial incentives for negative imbalance prices – always renewable – as explained to you by Mr Andreas Tirez. These are choices that are made by players in the market and that are left to their discretion, for each market player. We need to know and stress that. The market mechanisms in place therefore ensure the selection of the most economically optimal means of production, in view of the expected level of electricity consumption. Negative prices are not a new phenomenon that would be linked to the coronavirus crisis and do not necessarily indicate a specific problem, but rather specific and exceptional circumstances that need to be closely monitored but for which – as I said and I repeat – no specific measures should be taken at this stage. Moreover, in all cases, the CREG recommends that any measure taken should be proportionate and adapted to the different categories of suppliers. I would like to point out here that there is a lot of proposals being made. And Mrs Van der Straeten said very well, after the hearings, that all this had to be examined in the interests of a great balance that concerns precarious consumers, consumers who are less precarious or less precarious, the big consumers – you have heard the FEBEG and FEBELIEC – but also the suppliers and producers. Consideration will also have to be given to the way in which the federal contribution fund operates and what it serves. The CREG reiterated that, if general measures were to be taken at the federal level, it was first necessary to wait to see what the Regions were going to do. The latter have already done something because in the Flemish Region, 200.68 euros – if I remember correctly – are allocated to all consumers who are temporarily unemployed, as a result of the crisis. Of course, the Belgian or even regional consumer must not pay twice the same amount. Indeed, it is the consumer who feeds these possibilities of redistribution. We must therefore be very careful and I will be very attentive to all the proposals made in this context. The RMG does not indicate anything else since it says that targeted and temporary measures are needed. The consumer must benefit to the best of the market, today and tomorrow. In fact, the CREG Scan is widely used at the moment. Over 50,000 applications were registered during the past 15 days or three weeks. I personally relayed on social networks the communication of the CREG by explaining to all internet users who asked questions what they could do and how to do it. Some people don't want to change anyway. Sometimes people don't like change. That can be understood. However, when you see that 1.8 million consumers, some of them with dormant contracts, do not seek to benefit from more interesting market conditions, it is a pity and it means that we must certainly make even more efforts in terms of communication. I now come to the priority rules for renewable energy. First of all, there is the European level where rules on the priority of renewable energy have evolved. As Mr Ravyts mentioned earlier in the third energy package, Article 16 of Directive 2009/28/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2009 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources describes the priority as follows: "Subject to the requirements for maintaining network reliability and safety, based on transparent and non-discriminatory criteria defined by the competent national authorities: - Member States shall ensure that operators of transmission and distribution systems present in their territory guarantee the transmission and distribution of electricity produced from renewable energy sources; - Member States also provide for either priority access or guaranteed access to the renewable energy network; - Member States shall ensure that, when calling for electricity generation facilities, TSOs give priority to those using renewable energy." You know what's next. Moreover, the philosophy of the Clean Energy Package is based on the proper functioning of the market and the integration, in this market, of renewable capacities which, moreover, also in Belgium, increase considerably in our electricity mix. The recast of Directive 2018/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the promotion of the use of energy produced from renewable sources no longer provides for a specific priority. The recast of the 2019 Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 June 2019 on the internal market in electricity lays down specific market rules, including, this time, a possible priority for renewable energy. This Regulation is directly applicable since 1 January 2020 and provides, with regard to dispatching, that, where Member States call for electricity generation installations, system operators shall give priority to production installations using renewable energy, to the extent permitted by the safe management of the national electricity system. This is always the case when these installations are either electricity generating plants using renewable energy sources with an installed power capacity of less than 400 kW, or demonstration projects of innovative technologies subject to the approval of the regulatory authority. I thank you for reading the rest of this new 2019 regulation that you know perfectly well. I will conclude this chapter by saying that, in reality, renewable capacities remain a priority because of the functioning of the market, as they are the last to be redispatched. That's the reverse logic of the merit order. It is only in the case of operational safety that priority can be called into question and lead to curtailing, for example. In the context of the current discussions at European level on the implementation of the redispatching rules, however, it is also planned to give priority to renewable energies. On the subject of the risk of unpaid invoices and the distribution of unpaid invoices to the players in the value chain, the concerns and proposals of the FEBEG, the introduction of supplier claims for the social rate to the CREG, the acceleration of reimbursement by the CREG, the impact on the cash flow of suppliers, I answer on these topics to questions No 55004902C of Mr. Van Lommel and No 55005568C by Mrs Van der Straeten. With regard to the possible problems of payment of invoices and their impact on suppliers, it should first be noted that to date, CREG has not received any negative signals in connection with possible delays in payment of invoices by network users following the crisis of the coronavirus. In spite of this, the CREG remains vigilant to any change in the situation and will, if necessary, inform the government immediately. Although it still depends on future developments, it is the signs of a healthy market that, if it can be preserved, will be of valuable help when the additional measures taken to combat coronavirus are gradually eliminated as part of the gradual definisation that we will begin on 4 May. A first domain to be followed is the monitoring and actions that transmission system operators can take with a view to a robust market functioning. It should be noted, however, that neither Fluxys Belgium nor Elia has a direct financial link with suppliers, but only skippers, balance managers or access managers and distribution system operators can be considered as their direct customers. Therefore, the possible measures that could be put forward are limited. Apart from the own measures already announced by Elia and Fluxys Belgium to comply with the general corona measures, it is therefore envisaged that, firstly, a commitment to pay more quickly for its own suppliers and, secondly, a closer monitoring of the equilibrium position of network users, including the flow of information to the CREG, should be envisaged, in order to possibly anticipate the possibility of avoiding problems or penalisation. If we look at the way in which market forces can be protected as far as possible, I would like to stress, like the CREG, that a distinction should be made between the different suppliers in relation to the measures for energy suppliers. Possible criteria still need to be refined, but on the basis of our knowledge about their activities and whether or not they have production capacity, there is a clear difference in needs between the suppliers to be taken into account. For example, suppliers with covered flexible production capacity may be provided with a financial buffer. In addition to the fact that this will allow for a reduction in the size of the measures, the main objective is to maintain sufficient competition so that the market can resume immediately once the crisis is over. If additional measures are planned to respond to the negative impact on suppliers as a result of the COOVID-19 crisis, the CREG recommends that they nevertheless be made proportionate and adapted to the different categories of suppliers. In the search for possible measures, however, we would also like to take into account the general measures already taken by the public authorities in support of the economy, and we should also take very specific account of any measures taken at regional level and/or in the pipeline with regard to suppliers. Those possible measures should be taken within the framework of the Economic Risk Management Group. As you know, the government decided on 19 March to create the Economic Risk Management Group to identify and combat the economic consequences. Measures against the crisis must be targeted and temporary, as the ERMG has stated. Targeted, because we want to focus on the entities that are most affected, and temporarily, because this crisis, once the pandemic is under control, will weaken and we need to avoid severe long-term impact on public finances. In this way, I come to the questions about refunds, claims and social charges in the context of the corona pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, a small word of explanation concerning the supplier reimbursement system. Reimbursement in October, by the "Electricity" and "Natural Gas" Protected Customers' Funds, of the social tariff claims introduced by the electricity and natural gas companies, is based on the time required by the CREG, as well as by other institutions involved in the process, to monitor claims for reimbursement. This was explained to you in a long and broad way earlier by the CREG, I believe. The timing of the rebate is also based on the timing of the federal electricity and natural gas contribution. I think that Mr Koen Locquet recalled this by saying that this chain of work, control and interaction could not be accelerated indefinitely, because the Fund must also be fed. The timing of the collection of the federal electricity and gas contribution is therefore crucial in this context. It is therefore on 31 March, 30 June, 30 September and 31 December of each year, as you know, that the electricity and natural gas system operators pay into the various funds of the CREG, Social Energy, denuclearisation and protected customers, the federal contribution they charged the previous quarter. With respect specifically to the Client Protected Fund, their repayment is scheduled for October, after receiving the third quarter federal contribution amounts, i.e., September 30th. These amounts must necessarily have arrived before, that is, when the Protected Client Fund received the four quarterly instalments of December 31, 2019, March 31, 2020, June 30, 2020 and September 30, 2020, as I have just said. Therefore, it is only at this time that the CREG has the full amount of money available for reimbursement to suppliers after all the checks I have mentioned to you. It goes without saying that, to date, we do not know exactly the amounts of the federal electricity and natural gas contribution that will come to supply the various funds on 30 June and 30 September, following the decrease in current electricity and natural gas consumption due to containment measures which result in a decrease in economic activity. There will be an impact. As a result of these same measures, CREG authorised electricity and natural gas suppliers to submit their application files until 30 April, instead of 31 March, one month later. At the same time, half of these companies have not yet submitted their files. Therefore, we do not know how much the Client Funds protected "electricity" and "natural gas" would be able to repay them completely. With regard to the uncollectible debts of the federal electricity and natural gas contribution, the CREG follows the treatment provided for in Article 4b, § 4 of the Royal Decree of 24 March 2003, entitled "Federal Electricity Assessment", and Article 6, § 2 of the Royal Decree of 2 April 2014 "Federal Natural Gas Assessment". You know as well as I do that these articles provide that it is at the time of the annual closing of their accounts, and only at that time, that these companies can disclose to the CREG their uncollectible federal contribution claims. In the case of electricity in particular, the amounts of these bad debts must also be certified by a company reviewer or an accountant. It is only after they have received their file that the file can be processed and a possible refund can be made within 20 days of its approval by CREG. Any derogation from this principle must, without exception, be the subject of an amendment to the Royal Decree. Therefore, it follows from all of the above that reimbursements to suppliers cannot be anticipated. In addition, they receive an additional month to submit their declaration. The payment of claims is provided for each year at the end of October, in accordance with the rules in force which lay down the rules for determining the cost of the application of social tariffs and the rules of intervention to cover them. This will continue this year, despite the crisis and late submission for some suppliers. The debt control procedure, in particular by means of random checks, and the sufficient quarterly provision of funds are such that we cannot repay earlier. Of course, we will have to be careful that all the specific measures taken in the context of the crisis do not jeopardise the financing of the Federal Contribution Fund. On the subject of social tariffs, I would remind you that from 1 July 2020, on the initiative of the Minister of Economy and myself, on the proposal of the CREG, social tariffs for electricity and natural gas will be calculated quarterly rather than semi-annually. This will allow for more monitoring of market conditions and avoid wall effects with a sharp and sudden increase. This will also introduce safeguards to avoid too sharp price increases from one period to the next. Tariff increases are therefore limited to 10% for electricity and 15% for gas on a quarterly basis. Tariff increases will also be limited to 20% for electricity and 25% for gas on an annual basis. The ministerial decrees are expected to be issued shortly to replace the ministerial decrees of 30 March 2007. Mr Van Quickenborne and Mr De Maegd, as regards the assessment of the environmental impact of the coronavirus crisis and the impact of this crisis on the climate transition and on climate policy, in the short term, the important measures we have taken to combat the spread of VOCID-19 are likely to have an impact on greenhouse gas emissions from various sectors, in particular transport. As you have seen, there is a drastic reduction in greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, but these effects are only temporary and do not constitute a lasting reduction in our greenhouse gas emissions. As we face this crisis, it is important not to lose sight of the fact that a number of environmental, climate, biodiversity crises will occur or continue to grow and that they will have a much greater and, above all, permanent impact on our well-being and health, and therefore on our economy, if we do not take appropriate measures. It is therefore important that the support measures and investments needed in the short term to support the economy are fully consistent with the climate and environmental objectives that are part of an absolutely essential trilogue: support for the economy, support for the social sector and support for our climate objectives and our environment. With regard to Mr Warmoes' question No. 55005569C on the ETS, I have a very long answer which I will give him in writing, since no one else has asked a question on the subject. I now answer Mrs de Laveleye's question No. 55005403C and Mr. Ben Achour on the consultations and actions carried out by the plastic industry on the increase of single-use plastics and on the risks of Belgian results in terms of the reduction of plastic waste. The health crisis we are experiencing affects our entire daily life. Consumer and business behaviour has been disrupted. No one can yet say whether the changes in mentality are punctual or will become trends that will turn into sustainable consumption habits. There is currently no monitoring of the placing on the market of single-use plastics. However, I would like to assure you that the federal government is actively engaged with the regions responsible for waste policies in transposing the single-use plastic directive. Let me turn to questions Nos 55005471C and 55005471C. De Maegd, No 55005572C by Mrs Hanus, No 55005587C by Mrs Schlitz and No 55005603C by Mr Verduyckt on the establishment of a Task Force for Recovery and the Climate Coalition which calls for a working group for a just and sustainable transition as in Finland. I note with you that many official and non-state fora call for a revival of the economy after the crisis, because we cannot ignore the need to make our societies more resilient - this is absolutely fundamental, because we will still be experiencing crises - but also to a sustainable transition in the context of post-COVID-19 economic recovery. Pandemic outbreaks may be anticipated, but this is not the case most of the time. What matters is the most immediate reaction possible. We are obliged to think globally and to address the human impact on ecosystems, biodiversity and climate change. An economic recovery that would not take into account the causes of this crisis - which will be analysed very thoroughly within a few weeks - and which would envisage a business as usual puts the economy and humanity at risk in the short and long term. A recovery that neglects economic, social and environmental aspects in a sustainable and just way will hit next to the target we must target and the goal to be pursued. On March 19, the RMG was put in place. Its objective is crisis management and anticipation of exit to propose measures to businesses, self-employed people and households. The priority therefore remains the fight against the virus. The RMG does not decide the measures - attention! - but he is merely submitting concrete proposals to the government, which decides. I will remind you of what our Prime Minister said in plenary in the House. "It is essential that we consider reviving the European economy." This is the very important European aspect, which some of you have mentioned. This must indeed go through, among other things, the Green Deal and the digital agenda. The European Commission will have to present us with a more detailed programme in this direction. Belgium believes that the Green Deal and the digital agenda should be seen as opportunities to develop our economic model rather than as obstacles. At European level, the world map for recovery proposed by the President of the Council and the President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen, which is the road map to a more resilient, sustainable and equitable Europe, focuses, as you know, on the Green Deal, the digital transition, cohesion and the common agricultural policy. The latter is very important in our case, since the short circuits have grown considerably from our farmers. Belgium formally and fundamentally adheres to all these priorities, as well as to the fact that transcending the false separation between the old and the new priorities is very important. We cannot start to fight politically over the world of the past, as if the fact of saying it automatically ipso facto brought the measures of the future. We are in continuity and what we have to do is look ahead and evolve in line with the objectives we pursue economically, socially and environmentally. The recovery policy must be coherent, it must be based on the Green Deal, it must be favourable to health, the economy and the environment. We will ensure that this message is adequately addressed in the work and recommendations of the GMRA and the government. In fact, my administrations are working very actively on it. For climate-related and sustainable development-related post-crisis measures, as well as for energy efficiency at European and international level, I am continuing my reflection and expanding it. I have here a battery of questions asked by Mr. Van Quickenborne (No. 55004851C), Mrs Schlitz (Nos. 55005434C, 55005435C, 55005588C and 55005589C), Mr. De Maegd (No. 55005471C) by Mrs Hanus (No. 55005572C). First of all, in a global way... As far as federal climate and energy policy is concerned, it may be appropriate in the short term to pay particular attention, for example, to energy independence and energy poverty in the light of the current health and economic crisis. Nevertheless, the longer-term objectives of federal energy and climate policy remain unchanged and are reflected in the Belgian and European targets for 2030 and 2050. It is therefore important that the short-term support measures and investment needed to save the economy are fully consistent with the long-term clean transition, with recovery and transition going hand in hand. We must not delay the necessary investments for the green transition because they can stimulate economic activity. Indeed, several studies point out that climate and environmental investment are the key investments that generate additional jobs, economic activity and innovation benefits. Furthermore, in the short term, we need to focus on renovation, the construction of offshore wind farms and flexible networks, solutions regarding efficient storage, hydrogen and other investments in technologies consistent with long-term energy and climate sustainability. Speakers, including ENGIE, have told you a lot about this. Yesterday I took part in an informal video conference of EU Energy Ministers. On behalf of Belgium, I have, of course, referred to the points just mentioned, following consultation with the Regions. I also advocated an inclusive, comprehensive and comprehensive recovery plan for sustainable growth and taking into account the EU's Green Deal, which should be implemented in a sustainable and cost-effective way. With regard to the Green Deal, it is an instrument that must be maintained absolutely and that must be used to help curb the crisis in VOCID-19. It's an opportunity or never. However, it must be carried out in a holistic way and in interaction with other thematic competences such as health, employment, agriculture, the social system, the economic system, etc. The Green Deal post coronavirus must take into account an ambition that is decarbonized as much as reasonably, technically, economically and socially possible. We must not forget our society and its revival and the most precarious in the recovery. All of this must be achieved in line with economic and societal transformation, creating jobs, growth and also contributing in a non-confrontational manner to the achievement of the Paris Agreement and the United Nations' sustainable development goals. The impact of the Green Deal is expected in September 2020 and we will have more clarity and clarification on the future orientations of the European Union in this impact assessment document. I would like to stress that the transition to a climate-neutral and sustainable society would require a broad investment programme. The transition to carbon neutrality, based on the best available scientific evidence of cost-effectiveness and technological neutrality, must be integrated into a strategy to transform it into a fair and prosperous society that will improve the quality of life of present and future generations, with a resilient, inclusive, modern, competitive, efficient and therefore sustainable economy. The objective remains in the long term and overall the implementation of all the SDGs – and thus the improvement of the well-being of citizens while respecting the limits of our planet – and through a more efficient, competitive and resilient economy. This strategy includes strengthening our independence and energy security as well as our independence and food security, as well as the accessibility of energy and food in financial and technical terms and solidarity between Member States, as I repeated during the video conference with my fellow energy ministers two days ago. With regard to the status of the Green Deal, here are some elements of a response. The European Commission has announced that the Green Deal will be an integral part of the post-COVID-19 economic recovery plan. Some initiatives will be identified as priorities and others will be delayed. At this stage, it is very difficult to know which ones. However, the following three non-legislative initiatives were identified as priorities in the context of economic redeployment. First, the renewed sustainable finance strategy is maintained as an important part of the Green Deal and as a key contribution to the recovery after the VOCID crisis. Secondly, a 2030 climate target plan is considered a priority. This plan is considered a central element of the Commission's environmental policy. However, due to the postponement of the United Nations Climate Change Conference, Glasgow COP26, an additional period of time "could be given to a complex analytical exercise that underpins the development of the new objectives". Thirdly, a wave of renovations must be launched which would be a key element of any post-COVID-19 recovery plan because of its benefits for stimulating economic activity. You know I'm talking about the renovation of the buildings. As the saying goes: when the building goes, everything goes. At this stage, it is premature to focus on a precise timetable in the context of the health crisis, since the timetable has not yet been determined by the European Commission. Regarding COP26, the fact that COP25 was perceived as a failure was mainly because there was a lack of a common and strong signal on the need to increase our ambitions and on the rules for the new international carbon market regarding Article 6 of the Paris Agreement. In this connection, I would like to point out that the objective of Belgium and the European Union is not to reach an agreement at all costs but rather to obtain robust and good quality rules. If the rules are robust, this will obviously allow the carbon market to increase the overall ambition of the Paris Agreement. On the other hand, if the rules are lax, they can lead to double counting and perverse effects. In this way, I am responding in part to Mr Warmoes' question. It should be noted that double counting and perverse effects have already occurred in the past in many projects under the Kyoto Protocol. You will agree with me that this would have a disastrous effect on the ambition and environmental integrity of the Paris Agreement. For Belgium and the European Union, maintaining the environmental integrity of the Paris Agreement is a top priority. Therefore, we believe that the adoption of rules that are not robust would be worse than the absence of rules. Belgium is one of the signatories of the San Jose Principles, a set of conditions necessary for carbon markets to contribute to climate ambition and sustainable development. We will remain in that position at COP26, but we hope, of course, that we can agree on the robust rules that are at issue. I would like to stress that it would be a mistake to judge the success of COP26 on the basis of the outcome of the Article 6 negotiations. It is not just that; there are other important priorities on the COP26 agenda, which are highlighted by the United Kingdom. These include the finalization of transparency rules, the ambition and achievement of the pre-2020 targets, climate finance, namely the target to mobilise $100 billion by 2020, and the establishment of a post-2020 climate finance target. COP26 will have to be a turning point for increasing the ambition of the parties to the agreement through long-term strategies to be introduced by all countries this year and, above all, for the first communication of the increase or update of nationally determined contributions. I must of course not remind you, since you often ask me about this, that the European objective of climate neutrality in 2050 is indeed there, that we must respect it. Nor should I remind you of the European Commission's proposal to increase the EU's greenhouse gas reduction target by 2030 to at least 50% and to 55% compared to 1990. The impact assessment for this proposal is announced after this summer. This analysis and its timetable should allow the European Union to submit an enhanced national contribution well in advance of COP 26 – which is postponed. Normally, a letter signed by the Presidency of the European Union and the European Commission will go to the UN Convention today to inform it, as well as the parties to the Paris Agreement, of the European Union's willingness to submit a further strengthened national contribution and the state of preparedness of this issue at European level. Some Member States already support the enhanced ambition proposed by the Commission in this context. Unfortunately, Belgium has not yet managed to define its position on this subject. The federal government is defending the position of the European greenhouse gas emission reduction target of at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990. The Brussels and Walloon Governments are on the same lines and included this objective in their government agreements. I therefore very much hope that the spirits in Flanders will also mature so that Belgium can play a positive and constructive role in the debate at European level. I come to the Green Deal and its consistency with the recovery plan. As you know, the European Council has welcomed the roadmaps for lifting the measures and for relaunching them. European leaders also approved the Eurogroup agreement on the €540 billion package as part of this recovery. Finally, they also agreed to work towards the establishment of a recovery fund. And I fully support the road map for recovery, as proposed by Charles Michel and Ursula von der Leyen as a prelude to the European Council of 23 April, entitled "Towards a more resilient, sustainable and just Europe". This European Council stresses that the Green Pact of the European Union should be at the heart of the recovery policy, and therefore confirms that this Green Pact is the new European growth strategy. On the whole, ladies and gentlemen, I share the points you have raised in your questions about the conditions to be met by the recovery plan. It will have to be based on the European budget that the European Commission will propose – a request made by the European Council. I am pleased that the Commission is announcing that most of the investments will serve and serve to foster economic cohesion and to improve the Union's resilience and autonomy, while supporting modern policies, such as the Green Pact for Europe and the digital transition. In order to establish the Belgian position for this meeting of the European Council, a DGE consultation (?) had taken place on 22 April. Among other things, we decided that Belgium could support, with regard to the roadmap, particular attention to the Green Deal and the digital transition, and that it was important to transcend this opposition – of which I have already spoken and which exists only in the spirit of its instigators – between the old and the new priorities. In reality, recovery must mean a new way of thinking and must no longer be a sort of conflicting counterpoint between the old and the new priorities. With regard to intra-Belgian coordination and the question of Denmark's letter, Belgium has long defended the principle of Climate Mainstreaming at European level. This principle is the integration of our climate and environmental objectives in all areas, in order to ensure that all policies and measures are consistent with the transition to a sustainable society. Such coherence is essential in order to achieve an effective eco-efficient transition and in order to avoid engaging in no-delivery routes, due to the effects of lock-in and stranded assets harmful to the economy. Similarly, I am fully convinced that the support and investments remain to be made in the context of the post-COVID economic recovery and that they must be fully consistent with our long-term environmental and climate objectives, and even constitute a unique opportunity to invest in the economy and society of the future – I have already said so. At European level, this means that the Green Deal will have to be at the heart of the recovery plans. Moreover, during the DGE consultation, which was devoted to the preparation of the videoconference of the European Council of 24 April in which I participated, we agreed between the political levels of our country on this position. I am therefore in favour of Denmark's initiative, because in my opinion the messages contained in this letter are important and in line with the Belgian position. However, as you know, I cannot sign a letter on behalf of Belgium until everyone agrees to this signature. On the federal side, we have indicated – as I have just said – our support for the Danish letter and we have tried to convince our partners in the Regions of the importance and the desirability of a Belgian signature. Unfortunately, a federated entity found it more appropriate to stand out from the Danish position, which prevents Belgium from joining the group of co-signatories of the letter – which I regret. Secondly, more specific questions were asked: Mr Ravyts's question about the energy standard, and Mr Ravyt's question about the energy standard. Ben Achour, concerning the contract between the European Commission and Blackrock, by Mrs Schlitz concerning the revision of the European rule of 80/20, and finally – I would end up by this, Mr President, and I will make a proposal to which Members can react – there was an inquiry by Mr. Van Lommel on ENGIE Electrabel's letter on keeping nuclear power plants in operation after 2025. Then I'll say a word about CRM. I have a question for parliamentarians, Mr President, since the answers to these questions, insofar as they are ad hoc, come out of the mainstreaming of all the coronavirus questions. The question is: do these colleagues want me to read the answers or do they prefer me to send them in writing?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u3	That's a good question. I will put them immediately to Mr Van Lommel. Can you keep your interplay?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u4	Mr President, unfortunately I have not understood. I wasn't plugged in. Are questions that are somewhat outside the general framework transformed into written questions? Is it only read out to the inquiry? Is that it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u5	I understood that Mr. Van Lommel is somewhat outside the scope of today's debate. Yes, or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u6	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u7	What we could do is ask colleagues who want to reply to your answers to do so now. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van Lommel, for his speech. Minister, at that time you will be able to respond to the inquiry. Then we will move on to the motions. We expect a motion of recommendation and a simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u8	All right, Mr President, but my question remains: what do I do with Mr Ravyts' question about the Deloitte study for Febeliec, with Mr Ravyt's question. Ben Achour on Blackrock and with Mrs Schlitz's question on the revision of the European rule of 80/20? Do they turn these questions into written questions or do they want me to read them the answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u9	Mr President, my question is not urgent. I would be happy to postpone it until a next committee meeting in which oral questions will be answered. I'd like to postpone, but no conversion into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u10	Mr Ravyts, your question No. 55005325C is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u11	Mr. Chair, Minister, I have no problem with the minister's proposal, and that the answer be sent to me in writing. I was asking for some clarification following the last committee, but I do not need an immediate response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u12	Thank you for your flexibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u13	If the answer is sent, could it be now, in the hour that comes?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u14	Yes. I've got it here, in front of my eyes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u15	Good, then.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u16	Minister, was there not yet a fourth person?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u17	No, that's all. It's over. The Chair: I suggest that we give colleagues who still want to reply on your 33 or 34 pages the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u18	37 pages. You're right. You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u19	Then I will give the floor to Mr. Van Lommel for his arrest. Then you can answer it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u20	Madam Minister, thank you for the very detailed explanation. I would like to replicate a few points. First of all, I'd like to talk about the federal contribution. I do not have a ready-made solution of my own and I do not think that anyone can make a perfect answer out of the hat, but the funds have been effectively hit and the big question will then be how we are going to catch up. Everyone will agree that resources must be found for the public service obligations financed by these funds. Perhaps some funds that run over a longer term could be delayed. I am thinking of the federal contribution to the BT1 and BT2 funds. If that goes on for a few more years and we can't recover it now, then maybe we can make it up to you later. For example, social tariffs through the Gas and Electricity Fund will be much more difficult. There are then gross modo two slopes. We can recover it later with the federal contribution, which means we're going to raise the people's bill. However, I do not believe that anyone in this committee is in favour of weighing up the invoice. The second solution would then be to work through the general means. My question is whether this is also taken into account for the corona measures taken by the government. The CREG will then have to give us some direction in relation to the expected impact. We have heard FEBEG's figures on the increase in the number of payment plans, the non-payment of invoices and the risk of bad debt. Their question was that each entity would take part in the responsibility. In order to make the corona bill and the impact on the budget clear, it is important to continue working on pistes to solve that problem. Secondly, in the slightly longer term, you have made a reference to the merit order and the rules on dispatching and redispatching, which are, to some extent, already laid down in the electricity regulation. I believe that there has been an interesting input there that we can further develop, including in this committee, in the context of the flexibility that we have also discussed this morning. With regard to the sleeping products, our colleague Kris Verduyckt's proposal is very interesting. Proposals have been made this morning by the CREG to extend only on active products. Apparently, the Cabinet is also working on a proposal. I believe that Mr Verduyckt's proposal will be on our agenda for the first time within two weeks. It would be good if we could pool the proposals of the CREG and the Cabinet so that we can have a global debate on what is the best solution for dormant products.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u21	Mr President, I have a brief reply. Madam Secretary, thank you for your 37-page effort. The whole day was enlightening and a number of people and social actors and sectors have been dropped into reality with regard to the attacks that have been taking place again over the last few weeks on the nuclear production operator in our country. A number of things were put in the right perspective and rejected. I am thinking here of the investigation which the CREG has already carried out in part and on which it has already drawn a number of guiding conclusions. I would also like to thank you for updating the European regulations and directives on access to renewable energy. There's a lot of tension on that. I'm intellectually honest enough to admit that. I shall postpone my question on the energy standard until another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answers. One of my questions was about the "disconnection" of renewables in the context of negative prices and too low demand in relation to supply. Basically, you told me that legally, everything was correct and that indeed the renewable was a priori on the network in accordance with the directives and the law. It's true in theory, but practice has proven the opposite. In fact, nuclear power is opposed to the production of electricity by renewable energies. My question was about the measures you are going to take to regulate the market so that small suppliers and small renewable energy producers can have priority. I take your answer as a no. You're telling me that the market is working and that the law is being respected. [[It's kind of like saying that there's no road safety problem, because anyway, the law limits the speed to 50 km per hour in the built-up area.]] Practice has shown that there is indeed a problem and that it needs to be solved so that in practice renewable energy is given priority and not only by law. As far as the ETS system is concerned, I am waiting for your written answer. I am just a little surprised to be the only one to question me and to see that no colleague has asked this question. This may say a lot about the acceptance of the system. We are still talking about a significant fall in carbon prices in this market, which is not at all good for environmental policy. I am not going to expand on this, but in any case this certainly does not encourage companies to make a move towards renewables, even though this is the purpose of this system. Finally, Madam Minister, since last time, on 30 January, if I am not mistaken, I have still not received answers to questions about nuclear waste, among other things. Ms Van der Straeten also pointed out that she was still awaiting written answers. Could you check it out?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u23	Indeed, in the cat, we could read Mrs. Van der Straeten's remark. Minister, she has not yet had the promised answers to her questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u24	I think that's where I was wrong. I thought I didn't get the answer, but it was sent. I just didn't see it. As far as I'm concerned, the written answer is okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u25	Okay, that's settled, but apparently Mr Warmoes is still waiting for a written reply. You heard that, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u26	I'll send you the question numbers so that there's no misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u27	Madam Minister, thank you for the answers and for the clear position on the Danish letter. Our Flemish colleagues still have to be convinced of this. I hope you will do your best to do so, and we will, of course, do so through our ways. I also note that the Minister in the Flemish Parliament says that she will interperate with you about the nuclear power plants, but apparently that has not yet happened. Well, that's all a little weird, isn't it? Mrs Van der Straeten made a comment about the dormant contracts. It is a good suggestion to put all the proposals together and to see how we can achieve the best possible result. Finally, the main reason I asked for the floor was Mr Ravyts' speech. He said that today a number of people were put back on the ground with both feet. I want to be clear about this: it is not because ENGIE says it wants to be flexible that it has been. Clearly it hasn't been. It says that it could not for technical reasons, and that has been clearly explained today, but there was no flexibility. Nor is it because the CREG says that no market manipulation has been proven, that it is not the case that a number of small suppliers started to worry about what was happening on the market. I therefore still believe that we have done well to be brief and to ask questions about it, because today ENGIE decided not to throw the old power stations out of service again. I cannot get rid of the impression that the debate, including in Parliament, has contributed to this. Thank you very much for the long sitting and for the interesting information we have received today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u28	Yeah, but it's not over yet, so please stay put.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answers. I see you're in good shape! We work in a global response format and therefore receive a lot of concrete information. It's a pleasure! I also welcome your determination and commitment to work towards a transition, placing the Green Deal at the heart of the redeployment of the post-COVID-19 economy and society. Like some colleagues, I regret that some are holding back that will. For the Danish letter, I hope that a solution will be found, because this is a very unfortunate situation. The objectives contained in this document are indeed commitments that we have made. There is therefore no reason not to subscribe to it. I still think that the Climate Coalition's suggestion to set up a group of experts that could accompany this redeployment from a fair and sustainable perspective remains a good idea. Such a group based on internal balances would reflect the different sensitivities of the population, while retaining a government advisory role. We could very well follow this model for the reconstruction of the economy after the crisis. I continue to support this idea, which could be further explored, in particular through a meeting with the Climate Coalition.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u30	Minister, I give you the floor for the final reply before moving on to Mr. Van Lommel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u31	Mr President, I shall first reply to Mrs Van der Straeten. Madam, thank you for your questions and for your reflection on this work. It's not at all pejorative, because it's all ours. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that no one obviously wants to increase the federal contribution. It is not a question of increasing consumers' bills, especially those of the most precarious consumers in the context of this crisis. When you talk about intervention by general means, whether it is through the CREG Fund, through the federal contribution, or by general means of the federal budget that are "provided" by the federal government in the context of this crisis, it is still the consumer who pays. In fact, you have to have in mind that it is a redistribution system, and you know that. In this redistribution, it is the balance that will be very difficult to arbitrate. If you take on one side, in some, to give to others, you don't change much to the situation, except maybe if you don't target the help on those who really need it, you may be wrong. That is also my answer to Mr. Warmoes. Mr. Warmoes seems to say that the renewable had to stop because of nuclear power. Big cartoon, Mr. Warmoes! Not at all! The renewable has stopped voluntarily, and from the moment the demand is lower, everyone earns less and it is difficult for everyone, including renewables. In the end, it is still important to have the cheapest electricity for the benefit of consumers, independents and businesses. Now, what do we see? That has been said and said again, and I have experienced it several times during the five years that have passed. Electricity is the cheapest when the nuclear power plant is operating, because these infrastructures are completely depreciated. The renewable is of course intermittent, and in order to make their operating figures and earn a living, operators need the support of the consumer, i.e. the wholesale 30% which is on the bill and which is constantly increasing. Fortunately, the federal government has removed $4 billion from offshore operators, which has not prevented them from continuing to build, which they are doing, until the end of 2020, to achieve our goals. That is how we must organize the whole debate and see the reality. It's clear you don't have to fall into this. Mr Warmoes, I do not want to be unpleasant, but if there are ideological reasons that push you to reason as you do, say it outright! Tell us that Ideologically, that's what you do. Because in reality, it's not fair. As far as the merit order is concerned, we must of course think about it. This was explained very well by the speakers: it is not a legal rule, nor is it necessarily an economic rule or a technical rule, but a bit of it. Therefore it is not easy to intervene in the merit order. When Mr Warmoes says that it is not because there are road safety rules that they are not outdated, it is true, but it is up to the operators to monitor compliance with these rules. I have explained to you the nuances to be incorporated in the development of the directives on this subject. The merit order must be analysed in the light of the evolution of the European framework and the technical and economic reality. As far as dormant contracts are concerned, I obviously agree with everything that CREG wants to implement in terms of evolution in the dynamics of invoicing for the benefit of the consumer in order to always have the lowest price. To extend in dormant contracts only active products is a policy to which I subscribe. Mrs Schlitz, the National Energy-Climate Plan (PNEC) provides for a national dialogue for a fair transition. When you talk about the "just transition" expert group, I suppose you want to talk about the 127 experts who recently signed a letter and whom you would like them to be received by the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u32	I think the Climate coalition's proposal is rather national. It is also desirable to set up a long-term expert group at European level. But at the national level, we can also be supported in our efforts to deconfinity and economic recovery by experts who can help us develop a sustainable and social strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u33	I agree. I propose that the committee organise this work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u34	Minister, you accuse me of ideological intervention. Every time the market shows it doesn't work, I could turn that back to you by saying that you are sticking to your liberal ideology of absolute belief in the market. I think you're just as ideological. In addition, you said that prices have fallen and that that was the goal. Energy policy aims to have an affordable price for households and businesses. We agree with that, but that is not the only criterion. There are also environmental criteria that matter. In any case, the bill remains high for households in Belgium. Finally, you say that nuclear power plants are amortized, but we are still paying the bill. We will discuss the issue of nuclear waste on Thursday and we have learned during the hearings that these plants are not even insurable given the amounts that would be incurred in the event of failure. So I have some reservations about nuclear power.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u35	Madam Secretary, I just wanted to come back to the federal contribution. Of course, in the end the consumer always pays. This is also the case for all the support measures already taken by the government and Parliament in the context of corona. The statement I made was about the fact that, as a result of the crisis, including the federal contribution, we will now have missing money. We just won't have some of the money, because shops that aren't open can't pay their invoices. We have seen the figures for the payment of invoices. So there will be a portion of missing money, which actually goes back to the corona crisis. The question is who will fill that well. Will we then decide to give less money to the OMCWs and not give the suppliers a refund for the social rates or will there be a solidarity measure? Will there be a support measure? Will the wells be filled by general means? That is a choice we must make. For me, it could also be a corona support measure. We shouldn't be doing this now. We do not know the size of the amount. However, this is an important debate, where we will have to ask for the monitoring of the CREG and look at how much resources are involved. We must then consider the possibilities for ensuring that the needs we consider to be the most important, such as energy poverty, are not double sanctioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u36	I now give the floor to Mr Van Lommel from the Yourcenar room for his interplay. Mr van Lommel, you have a five-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u37	Madam Minister, a few weeks ago we could all take note of a letter from ENGIE Electrabel to the government on Objective 4 and Tihange 3. In it, ENGIE specifically asks the government, and by extension to Parliament, to decide in the short term on the possible extension of the life of these two nuclear power plants after 2025. Whether we are in favour of it or against it, the debate will have to be held in Parliament. However, some Members may think that everything can be dealt with with with the fingernip, and that will not be the case, should one eventually opt for a lifetime extension. We need to prepare for this. A lot of conversations are needed for that. It's not a matter of months to get that file through, no, it's a matter of years. A number of necessary preparations are needed, including the negotiations I have just spoken about. Of course, if one opts for an extension of the life of the two plants, there must be an investment against this. The people of ENGIE Electrabel are talking about 800 million. Colleagues, whatever they may say, after 2025, import dependence will increase. If we leave everything as it is, we won't get there. Many colleagues do not like to hear that message and do not want to have the debate on the substance either. But how will we explain to people that their energy bill will increase? There has been a lot of meetings here in the past about everything and everything, about the CRM and other possibilities, but at the end of the ride nothing came out of the bus. The uncertainty after 2025 remains very high. Apart from the decision, I found the statements made by Prime Minister Wilmès following the letter that it was not now the time to talk about extending the life of nuclear power stations and that there are other cats to be flogged, at least below all levels. There are indeed other cats to be flogged in Parliament at the moment. That does not alter the fact that I mention her statements and the statements made by some colleagues in the press below the belt. The Chamber has 150 elected members; well, we have not been elected to turn into important files with our fingers. The people expect us to investigate all possible slopes and ultimately to make effective decisions. Colleagues, I admit that there are other dossiers at the moment. The corona crisis is the most important one we must now face. However, this should not mean that other dossiers, which are important for the future of this country, would remain on the sidelines. A number of colleagues complain that ENGIE Electrabel puts us against the wall in the letter. That, I believe, was by no means the intention of that beef. We should rather see it as a wake-up call. There has been so much debate in the past and there are supporters and opponents, but whatever it becomes, ENGIE Electrabel is beginning to think it is time to get an answer. It is not a decision of principle by Parliament or the government whether or not to speak with ENGIE Electrabel. One will not be able to lose out on the conversation, how one spins it or turns it. It is time to confess colour, ladies and gentlemen, and that is what we will see next week when our legislative proposal will be on the table again. When I hear colleagues here, what is the real problem of going into consultation with ENGIE Electrabel to discuss this? I note, however, that in a number of parties the spirits are ripening. We can only welcome that, of course. Madam Secretary, I still have a few very essential questions. Do you, as Energy Minister, recognise that a lifetime extension is necessary in order to continue to guarantee capacity after 2025? Do you also recognise a very high import dependence against it, given what is now on the table in Parliament and the debates we have had over the last few months? There is talk of an import dependency at times of a third party. In the meantime, has the government taken an initiative to start the talks, following the invitation of ENGIE Electrabel?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u38	Mr President, honourable Member, as you recalled earlier, the Prime Minister had the opportunity to respond to the letter she received from ENGIE Electrabel in English by saying that the timing was bad. She added that "if they do not understand English, I will tell them that this is really not the time to talk about it, especially since I understand that decisions must be made before the end of the year. We are not yet at the end of the year. To throw this in the midst of the crisis of the coronavirus, I think there was more suitable as an approach." I agree with her. You understand, honourable Member, that I have been meeting all the operators, the stakeholders, on a regular basis for many years. The doors of my office are always open, including in the context of the crisis. Of course, not at all in the same way in practical terms, since we do a lot of video conferencing. But I also have to meet with this operator in the context of the concerns that enliven him. It is thanks to the operation of these plants that this company develops and manages not only to maintain itself, but to develop and make other investments – as we explained to you this morning – in wind, gas, storage, to name but a few. I am careful that all companies receive equal attention from me, including this one. I know that concern they express in their mail. For the moment, I cannot answer that because, as Mrs Wilmès says, our government is currently focusing on a serious one-off crisis, where we must mobilize all our efforts to get through it under the best conditions and emerge under even better conditions. On the other hand, fundamental, structural questions, which meet requirements for several years, decades, from now on, are not immediately linked to the crisis of the coronavirus. I agree with you that, yes, a planning company, especially for infrastructure of this size, is doing what is necessary to make a wake-up call and to alert the authorities about the need to make a decision. Mr President, a decision will have to be taken by a full-fledged government by the end of the year to make the company feel comfortable in the many and sophisticated preparations that will have to be decided whether that government decides to extend nuclear power plants beyond 2025. So, first of all, I will not move on to what an unestablished government would decide. Secondly, I belong to a government whose terms of reference did not include such an extension. I responded to it to ensure security of supply in 2015 by extending Doel 1 and 2 until 2025. Then, the PNEG is used to meet environmental and climate obligations. I must also mention the strengthening of networks and interconnections. I am also talking about the development of the offshore in the North Sea until 2030, with less support. There is also the development of all the technical equipment necessary for the exit of nuclear power, which is continuing, such as Category A storage, improvement of the context of nuclear supplies, intermediate storage of spent fuels, etc. Let us never forget the framework in which I am obliged to work. I'll call you back anyway. With this in mind, the production of electricity by nuclear fission is regulated by a law of 31 January 2003 and requires the release of the energy mix from nuclear fission for industrial electricity production in 2025. So, with a constant legislative framework, without a new majority coming forward to change it, I continue to press myself through the CRM, which we will have the opportunity to talk about extensively on May 6. On that day, you will understand the usefulness - which I stress - of the resolution tabled today by Mr. From Maegd. It is in line with the desire to propose a funding channel to the European Commission so that the dossier continues to be dealt with in a beating manner and that we can complete the financing order, knowing that the other decrees do not suffer any difficulties and could be published without problems to the suspensive condition that the Commission – within the framework of the European guidelines on competitiveness – accept the formula contained in the regulatory framework of these decrees. I have already had the opportunity to repeat this to you several times, and I will repeat it again if it is necessary. Contrary to what Mr Warmoes says, I am not pro-nuclear or anti-nuclear. I'm pragmatic, I've always been, and I'll stay. It's my nature, it's technical questions that need to be given technical answers, not ideological answers. Thank you. As far as the surplus is concerned, I refer you to everything I had explained to Mr Bert Wollants when he asked me the question on 16 April last in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u39	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. You refer to what Prime Minister Wilmès has communicated in English. I was particularly sorry that this had to be done in English, while in this country we speak three official languages and English is not. I see you're hiding behind three cases. First of all, the whole coronation thing. I have just said that this is indeed very important and the main problem that Parliament is facing today. But what about the rest? There are other dossiers that are also on the table here and which are important and which will soon become important. Secondly, you are always hiding behind the law of the 2003 core exit, and now you are also hiding by saying that a government with full authority is needed for this. I understand that a number of partners who have supported this power of attorney government would prefer to see a different view when it comes to the nuclear story, but you should not forget that security of energy supplies is indeed included in the power of attorney decision and that you are competent to do so. So I don't see the problem of getting that going right now. Once again, I did not say that we should speak in principle today about whether or not to keep the nuclear power stations open, but I think we should at least start looking at pistes and sit around the table with those people. You say there will have to be a decision by the end of the year. However, you should not forget that the summer recess is coming soon and that we will also be moving very quickly towards the end of this year. The corona crisis you're referring to will continue to drag on for a long time. We will certainly not be out of it tomorrow, so we in this House will have to find a mode of operation to cut through important buttons in files like this. You say ENGIE Electrabel is a forward-looking company. That is true, but we, as politicians, must also dare to be forward-looking and dare to look at 2025 and beyond. If we do not take decisions now and do not cut those buttons, then we will effectively come to the big problem of our own security of supply. In any case, we will have to import a large part of our energy. For the rest, you have mentioned what is being done at the moment. That's right. I'm not denying that. I repeat, this is far from enough, Madam Secretary. Additional measures are needed. As a result of our questions, you have now for the third time been hiding behind the law on the nuclear trip. Next week, our legislative proposal will be on the agenda as part of the key step. If we in Parliament are soberly thinking about the matter and not just looking at ideologically, but purely at our security of supply and the objective facts, then we automatically come to a pragmatic debate. We have no choice but to support this proposal. You will certainly not be surprised, Madam Minister, that we have tabled a motion for a recommendation in which we ask the government to respond to the invitation of ENGIE Electrabel and to start talks with them in the context of a possible extension of the life of Objective 4 and Tihange 3, in the conditional sense, all the more so since we must be fully aware that if the decision is taken in the middle or end of this year, there is still a long way to go in preparing it. We can't start early enough. Every day we put the file out for ourselves is a day we lose.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u40	Mr. Chairman, I just want to point out to you that I have tabled a simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u41	I saw, yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u42	Mr President, I would like to respond. Not so much about the debate on nuclear energy, because we will continue to do so, but just for a moment on the letter from ENGIE. You said this inappropriately, Madam Secretary, but I think that is rather mildly put. You mentioned those colleagues who responded in the press. I did, too. I'll tell you why I thought that letter was very inappropriate at the time. We're in the middle of a crisis about our people's health. An exit group is appointed, which includes ten experts who will determine how we will start our socio-economic life again. One of these is Mr Thijs of ENGIE Electrabel, who in that group is given the particularly great responsibility to serve the general interest of our society. The first thing he does is send a letter to the government asking for an approved law to be reversed for his own company. I find that particularly inappropriate at such a time. I don't know about you, but I don't know what the world's gonna look like in six months' time. I can't say. It is inappropriate to start discussing what our energy market should look like in five years' time. I absolutely follow the Prime Minister in that and thought it was still very lightly expressed. Coming up with such a message at such a time, that's just doing business of its own. Now we should all be rebooting our country after this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u43	Mr Verduyckt, I understand that you think this is inappropriate. I find it particularly strange that you say that we do not know what the energy market will look like in five years' time, because that is precisely why we need to move forward. We continue to move forward and continue to hold parliamentary debates on everything, but to this day we have not made any decisions. There are still no guarantees on security of supply, so we need to have the debate right here. You talk about the self-interest of ENGIE Electrabel and that is true from their perspective, but let's also look at the importance of our residents: the affordability of energy and security of supply in the future. Let us ensure that we do not import energy from abroad. That is what it is at risk of becoming: we are putting everything before us, we are not doing anything with it, but at the end of the journey the citizen is being victimized. I will continue to fight that every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic163x.u44	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the reply of the Minister for Energy, Environment and Sustainable Development, - having regard to the letter from ENGIE Electrabel addressed to the Government in the context of a possible extension of the life of two nuclear power plants; - whereas there are insufficient guarantees to ensure energy supplies after 2025; - whereas a complete core step implies the creation of an import dependency for a third party's energy; - whereas the affordability of energy must be guaranteed, which is not the case with imports from abroad; - whereas a discussion with ENGIE Electrabel on the possibility of keeping two nuclear power plants open after 2025 does not yet constitute a decision of principle; - considering the urgency of taking a final decision, asks the government to respond to ENGIE Electrabel's invitation and to launch talks with them in the context of a possible extension of the lifetime of Objective 4 and Tihange 3." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the response of the Minister of Energy, Environment and Sustainable Development, - having regard to the letter from ENGIE Electrabel addressed to the Government in the context of a possible extension of the lifetime of two nuclear power plants; - Whereas there are no sufficient guarantees to ensure energy supply after 2025; - Whereas a total exit from nuclear energy implies the creation of a dependence on a third party for the import of energy; Whereas the affordability of energy must remain guaranteed, which is not the case in the case of imports from abroad; - Whereas an interview with ENGIE Electrabel concerning the possible extension of two nuclear power plants after 2025 does not imply any decision in principle; Whereas it is urgent that a final decision be taken; asks the government to accept the invitation of ENGIE Electrabel and to enter into discussions with it as part of a possible extension of the lifespan of Doel 4 and Tihange 3." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Michel De Maegd. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Michel De Maegd. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
