ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u1	Colleagues, as you can imagine, the Minister's agenda is very busy. We agreed to close the exchange of views at 12.30 p.m. Therefore, we are not going to overflow, in any case no more than five minutes. We are not going to deal as such with the 24 issues related to coronavirus that have been tabled, as many of them are already overtaken by events. I will give the floor to each political group, depending on its size, after the brief introduction by the Minister. I suppose you're all following the news closely. Therefore, it is not useful to repeat what you have already read or heard elsewhere. When you speak, I would ask you to limit yourself so that we can hear the minister's answer and that you still have time to reply, as usual. The number of speakers per political group is not limited. Therefore, if you want to divide the floor, you can of course do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will give a brief introduction, because I assume that the members of the Health Committee will have taken up topicality during what was the crocus holiday for some people. The nuclear cabinet met on Sunday 1 March 2020 to take stock of the situation in Belgium regarding the coronavirus epidemic, now known as the COVID-19 epidemic. Until further notice, this will also happen every Friday morning at 8 a.m. There was also an inter-ministerial conference on Sunday afternoon at 4.30 p.m., at which all my colleagues from the Länder were present. Friday, February 28, 2020, I had reached them all by phone to tell them that it would be a crucial week, as we could expect new coronavirus patients. Everyone was therefore alarmed and present at that meeting. A Consultation Committee was also held on Monday 2 March 2020. It was attended by the Prime Minister, myself for the department concerned, the prime ministers and the ministers of the sub-governments concerned. This committee will now be held every Wednesday morning at 8 a.m. This is the subject of consultation. There are further contacts with the administrations of the relevant Länder ministers. There's a good connection between all of us. On Sunday, March 1, 2020, the first new patient returned from a stay in France. The next day there were six new patients, all returning from a stay in the same region in northern Italy. Today we have announced that there are five new patients in our country, all of whom also returned from the same ski resort in northern Italy. I'm not good at predictions, but yesterday I thought that if six new patients join in in one day, there will be cases in the next few days. Each time, the agencies concerned are immediately alerted "Health and Health" or "AviQ" so that they can also do the retracing and see who these people have been in contact with. Of course, they are also taken care of. Most show rather mild symptoms. In such cases, home quarantine can be chosen, although accompanied. There are also successive tests, because people can't leave their homes again until they're no longer contagious, so if they can't transfer the virus anymore. Families tend to opt for home quarantine. Children are less ill, but they test positive and carry the virus in them. Patients who are ill but are in a special home situation, such as single people, are hospitalised and therefore cared for in the hospital. Last Sunday we moved to phase 2 of the FPS Public Health Risk Management Plan. Phase 2 is a phase of containment, which means that there are patients who test positive for the coronavirus, but that our strategy is to dive the virus, thus preventing it from spreading in our country. We remain in contact with WHO, which has a particular interest. For example, on the website we put links to the WHO, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) and the European Commission. The European Commissioner has also visited me. A new Employment, Social Policy, Health and Consumer Council (EPSCO) is scheduled for Friday in Brussels. We've already had one over the phone and another in the form of a meeting. This Friday, an EPSCO meeting will be held, devoted exclusively to the coronavirus, which concerns the European countries. For the decisions in our country there is a Risk Management Group, which evaluates the measures to be taken several times a day. There is also the Scientific Committee. The chairman, Steven Van Gucht, is here. He is affiliated with Sciensano and the University of Ghent. For the decisions we are guided by that scientific committee, which succeeds the issue. Other inter-ministerial conferences are also being organised in our country. Yesterday, for example, Mr Muylle led the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Economics. An inter-ministerial conference on mobility will also be organised and other ad hoc meetings will be held in the coming week. The Communities are of course also represented in the Risk Management Group. The Scientific Committee shall consist of scientists and virologists who carry out detailed evaluations and make recommendations to the risk analysis group. All this is done in consultation with the FPS Public Health and Sciensano, as said in good consultation with the various entities of our country. There is also the Crisis Centre, which will act as coordinator between the different departments and agencies and the local authorities, if necessary according to its legal mandate. We also pay particular attention to the healing process of the affected citizens. Their health and risk management are mainly a task of the Public Health Office. Others will focus more on the socio-economic aspects. We look at what measures may need to be taken if we come to a next stage, what needs to be done in the worst case scenario and what is the most realistic scenario. So far, the number of patients is manageable. However, we see in other countries that the number of infections can increase explosively. In northern Italy there were three patients on Friday and on Monday 229. The increase there was therefore very explosive. It didn't rise so fast after that, but the first few days the increase is often explosive. My colleagues responsible for education have also taken measures in relation to the schools. Yesterday was a crucial day, namely the first day of school after the crocus holiday. Because of the measurements made by Sciensano in the monitoring practices, we know that there are more childhood diseases, measles and respiratory infections when schools resume. It won't be any different now. We must, of course, be able to make a difference. So sick children need to be kept at home. The schools must be very alert. If a child becomes ill, one must immediately inform the parents. The hygiene measures are all well followed up in schools. On the website we have also published answers to the most frequently asked questions. There was also communication to the doctors, both the general practitioners and those in the hospitals. The case definition was tightened; it is not arbitrary, it is a directional directive. Doctors need to know what to do when they have suspicions, but in case of doubt a test can always be requested. There is also a helpline, a call centre, a 0800 number. A lot of questions come in there, too. They try to answer the people as faithfully as possible and if in doubt they are advised to contact their doctor. So far, Mr President, my brief introduction. I think it would be better to give the members of the committee a lot of time to give their questions and reservations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, you are free to take on board elements of your questions or not, or to add other questions on the basis of actuality.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u4	Madam Minister, a few weeks ago our group called for broader and better communication. As far as this is concerned, I would like to throw a flower at the experts in this matter, for example Dr. Van Ranst and Dr. Vlieghe. These are not only experts in the field, but also good communicators: they respond in a very comprehensive way to the situation and are also very understanding of the concerns that exist. That's not unimportant. It is important that everyone knows what the corona virus is, but also what it is not, that we know why certain measures are needed and that the aim should be to slow down the virus and spread infections over time so that our health care can continue to handle it. As far as that's concerned, it's okay. However, I asked at the very beginning about the plan. When the crisis was only in China, I also asked whether we are ready, if we have a comprehensive plan that can be rolled out immediately. You replied that there was. However, I am now reading in the press that this plan has only just been drawn up. That was also a point that we scored badly; according to the WHO and the Global Health Security Index, we do not score very well: we are only in the nineteenth place. By way of comparison, the United Kingdom is in second place and the Netherlands is in third. So it seems that we did not have a generic plan for a new outbreak, but plans that had been drawn up ad hoc on the occasion of, for example, the avian flu or ebola. Because there were different plans, an overview was also missing. There was no such thing as a single plan to tackle an epidemic. It wasn't ready. Is it true that such a generic plan was only drawn up now? In that case, we should be pleased that we have been given time so that we have been able to work on it. We should also be pleased that the epicenter was not here, which gave us that time. Who else is involved in this generic plan? Is it an initiative of the various services, such as health, but also the other non-white services, such as Home Affairs, Foreign Affairs and Defence? After all, they also play an important role in controlling an epidemic. Which experts are consulted? Is the plan also presented to external experts who have a certain expertise, for example in disaster planning? What is the role of the Communities and Regions in this? The oversupply of Health and Well-being ministers does not seem to create any greater clarity here and does not give the impression that there is one robust plan on which everyone focuses and on which everyone communicates unanimously. So who has final authority and who communicates? Isn't it confusing that communication goes through different channels? I would also like to call immediately after the epidemic, hopefully in a few months' time, for this new generic plan to be put into effect. In any case, we will have to learn lessons from this outbreak. Hopefully, therefore, we will adapt the plan to what we have learned so that we are ready for the next outbreak that will come anyway and which may also be more dangerous than this epidemic. Can you confirm that a solid and robust plan for the future and for a new and unknown epidemic will now be implemented? Are there any ideas about a crisis cell or a disaster centre that can always be composed of, for example, Home Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Defence and Public Health and that plans for different types of calamities, not just viral outbreaks, work out and practice? For example, in the Netherlands there is a calamity hospital in Utrecht. Are there any plans for that here, and do you think that's a good idea? Another important point to which it appears to be suspending is communication to the first line. I have no doubt that the reference hospitals are ready, but the first line, especially the general practitioners, pharmacists and dentists, feel abandoned. Nursing and care professionals also feel that the instructions are insufficient. In many cases it is about the lack of mouth masks. In France, these would be provided free of charge to the general practitioners. In our country, however, there is a serious shortage. In the Netherlands too, the shortage of mouth masks seems to be smaller. Why is that? Is there an overview of the number of mouth masks we need and the number we have? Do we have a view of the size and severity of the deficit? As far as dentists are concerned, the problem is particularly urgent. I'm a dentist myself and wasn't personally signed by the government. Guidelines I had to find on the website. Those directives were therefore particularly restrictive. There was virtually no scientific information on the condition and there was no contact point that we could consult. Dentists need coronavirus or not, mouth masks anyway. They're running out, though. Apparently they're rationed now, too. At least I had to hear that through my dental depot. We can only order a maximum number of mouth masks per month. Will the dentists be guaranteed to have mouth masks? If not, practices will have to be closed. It's that simple. There's no way we can work without mouth masks. Hygiene measures are of course of great importance in dental practice every day. We also want to protect our patients, which also means using a new mouth mask after each patient has been treated. What's the advice now? Should we be economical with our mouth masks and continue to use them for different patients or, as recommended, throw them away after the treatment of a patient and use a new one, which could compromise supply even more? In addition, there are guidelines, which I have had to find on the website, to use a different type of mouth mask in patients suspected of having a corona infection. That type of mouth masks, in particular FFP2 or FFP3, are no longer available at all. We're not getting any communication on where we can find those masks either. So I would like to hear your response on this too. What is your advice on this? I also have a few punctual questions. What happens to the major fairs or events that are organised, such as Batibouw? Are or are measures planned for this purpose? What special measures are being taken for the elderly, the weak and people with chronic illness, i.e. those who are particularly sensitive to that infection? Are there any specific guidelines for them? Who has these guidelines? I can tell you that, for example, physicists have no guidelines on what to do with weakened people. They often treat people with lung problems, with MS, with myasthenia gravis and other conditions. What are they supposed to do? Are house visits recommended or should the patients concerned simply come to practice? What happens to the people asked to stay in home quarantine? Is there any surveillance? Can someone supervise it? Who's that? Can certain measures be imposed? Finally, what about the test capacity? There are signs that this capacity is insufficient. How is the possible lack of test capacity addressed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u5	Mr President, Minister, as you can hear, Mrs Gijbels and I have not been on ski holidays. We have felt in our practice what lives with the patients and what lives with our fellow care providers. I've drawn up a ten-point plan for you. I'm actually calling it a ten-point blunderbook. You could also call it a ten-point notebook and take it with you for next calamities that occur in our society. A number of points have already been raised by Mrs Gijbels. The first point concerns mouth masks. We actually announced this in December 2019. It was during the Christmas holidays that for the first time the mouth masks in the pharmacy were missing. Last week I learned from the press that a European tender would have ordered mouth masks. I do not know when they will finally end up with the care providers who are first in contact with the patients. Communication has also been discussed here. Yesterday, moreover, the pharmacists' association (APB) communicated about these mouth masks. We, the pharmacists, received the first communication last week. That was a communication prepared before the outbreak in Italy. How can a pharmacist, who comes into contact with hundreds of patients every day, provide accurate and scientific information to these patients? A third point is the shortage of medicines. It has been reported this morning that there is no problem from Wuhan. Yesterday I saw a very coincidental publication by the FDA stating that there is a first producer who reports that there are shortages of medicines in the Wuhan region. Then who's telling the truth? How's that right? I'd like to hear that from you. I notice I can't order chloroquine. I also notice that I can't order Kaletra. Tamiflu, the medicine you will remember from the time of the Mexican flu, is only available in doses for children. So I can only conclude that we cannot order those antivirals for our patients at the moment. I'll talk about the swabs. On Wednesday 26 February, when the demand for tests was increased, the doctors learned that they had to be economical with the use of swabs. The labs did have a stock, but they didn't have much. It was said that these swabs were ordered in Italy, at COPAN. COPAN is actually the supplier for Europe and this company says that it currently produces 24-hour swabs and that it will deliver in proportion to the date of order. I suppose Belgium will not be the first to be on the list for delivery. I contacted COPAN and what surprised me most was that they said that the E-swabs that are supplied standard to the general practitioners are not really optimal for detecting viruses. I contacted Professor Van Ranst who reassured me. He said that for molecular diagnostics the E-swab with that Aries transport medium should be able. So he actually contradicts the company COPAN that says that it is not the E-swab with Amies that should be used but the S-swab with the medium UTM. I have also detected other clinical biologists and they are far less clear than Professor Van Ranst. Everyone states that the optimal transport medium for this virus is UTM and not the medium provided by the labs to the general practitioners. I wonder if we haven't had false negative results. Can we guarantee that the patients screened have also been properly screened? I don't know if you've seen the E-swab yet, but it's a little thicker and a little shorter. On the site of Sciensano it says that two nasopharyngeal samples are actually taken optimally. Sometimes one has to take a nasopharyngeal and an oropharyngeal sample. I challenge you to take an E-swab where the virus is located, high in the nose. You won't get there. I have verified this in clinical virologists who say that this cannot be optimally taken in outpatient practice. Optimal is what we want for our patients, isn't it? Sixth, the question we saw on Sunday in The Journal: did we just screen? Is it necessary that every patient screened for influenza is also screened for the coronavirus? You're saying this isn't necessary. I note that this is found in the USA. So there is no scientific agreement here either. My seventh point is very practical. As a general practitioner, you are supposed to contact the Health and Health Agency. I had a couple of doctors on the phone yesterday. A doctor told me that he spent four hours trying to get into the Health and Health Agency and always got the occupied tone. Is it so hard to make sure our GPs get into the Agency? Apparently you also have to get sick between 9:00 and 5:00, because that number can be reached during office hours. I find that remarkable, too. Point 8 concerns the screening of patients coming back from Italy. It is said that we are ready, we will know when too many patients are infected and we will then take action. However, how can we detect these people? When they arrived in Zaventem last week, there were no questionnaires and no guidelines. There was nothing there. Then how can we contact these people? Those people got off the plane on the train to Ghent. I don't think the train is optimal when carrying a virus. My ninth point concerns the care providers. You must respect the care providers. If a doctor, Mrs Fonck said it, sends an open letter in Le journal du médecin, then I find it particularly sad that the Minister of Health responds with: another drama queen. No, this is not about drama queens. These are care providers who are concerned about their patients and want to do their job seriously. Professor Van Ranst said it's a shared responsibility, doctors must have mouth masks. Most doctors probably have a few, but if you can't order them? If we have to see all these patients today without protection, I understand the concern. The same applies to home nurses. My tenth and final point, you say that we are done and that everything is done correctly at the labs. I'd like to present you with a case, including last week. A patient calls a doctor and says he's sick, has flu symptoms, has fever and comes back from Italy. The doctor calls the Health and Health Agency, which wasn't overloaded at the time, and gets permission to start testing. The doctor's test and the sample leaves Wednesday afternoon at 15:45 in Ghent. The doctor doesn't hear anything, but advises the patient to stay at home and not have too much contact with his neighbors. The patient consistently does that. Saturday morning, both the patient and the doctor haven't heard anything. The patient calls the doctor, the doctor calls the lab, who doesn't know anything yet. The lab's calling Leuven, and what does it say? The steel was picked up in Ghent on Thursday morning and stayed in Ghent for 15 hours. It took at least 17 hours before the steel, which was negative by the way, arrived in Leuven. I might as well have brought it by bike, I'd have been there faster. Fifteen hours in Ghent that steel was waiting to be transported to Leuven. And now you can guarantee me that this virus has arrived in Leuven in the right conditions. There's a total chaos. There is a lack of coordination for the collection of samples, and that was before the patients were discovered, and there is a lack of communication with the doctors, because the patient was at home for four days waiting for news.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u6	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, we are pleased that you are here this morning at this meeting that we convened, already a week ago. We were rather eager to ask you questions. I would like to come back to a more general point in terms of public health. When there is uncertainty, the precautionary principle prevails. For weeks, we've been asking you about your coronavirus plan and its content. To date, we have seen that there are still many issues and I will focus on three areas that are missing: the question of the detection criterion, logistics – especially masks – and, finally, communication and speed. With regard to the detection criterion, from the outset, the Scientific Committee has taken the geographical criterion as a criterion for detection associated with clinical criteria. However, the geographical criterion is constantly changing and the Sciensano procedure is still a war lagging behind the countries surveyed. On the other hand, we are no longer limited only to China or northern Italy, as 61 countries are affected. Is the geographical criterion still relevant? I think that, in general, the scientific community agrees that this criterion is too narrow and that, if the criterion of detection is limited to the geographical criterion and not to the clinical criteria, we will miss out on some cases. Minister, is this an option that the federal government intends to take in the coming days? Do we have the logistical means to meet this criterion of detection, which would be linked to clinical questions? With regard to logistics, which will be much discussed, the problem of the shortage of protective equipment has been raised since the end of January. We know that, and the WHO has had these fears since the beginning of February; for many weeks, wholesalers have told us that there are indeed shortages. But when you were asked the question in mid-February, you replied to the press that there was no shortage problem. Finally, the CPS is still part of a common group of masks, the nature and timing of which is unknown. Anyway, those pimps aren't here. However, Minister, the whole procedure you have put in place is based on the principles of protecting front-line basic medical personnel. This staff doesn't have a mask. Your procedure is therefore not in line with the resources put in place. I'm not talking about hygiene equipment. Pharmacists don't even have isopropyl alcohol to make their own hygienic fluid. I am also learning this morning that hospitals are experiencing difficulties in resupplying sterile equipment. My question is quite simple. How many masks have you ordered? When will they be available? When will they be distributed to doctors? The second logistical point obviously concerns the number of beds. In your plan, if we go to phase 3, do we have an up-to-date monitoring of the number of beds available? I'm talking about oxygen beds, I'm talking about ICU beds. What is the deployment plan? Has this plan been sent to hospitals? The third point concerns communication. In general, you have taken the option, together with the Scientific Committee, of adopting an ultra-reassuring communication. You say it's no worse than a big flu. But at the same time, people see that China is completely at a standstill. I don't remember China ever stopping a full population for an influenza problem. You have to realize that when people don't know how to hang on to your type of communication, because of what they see in the media, you can't tell them not to panic. At this level, they can't be wronged. I turn to transparency, speed and efficiency, which are also problematic. Indeed, the real focus in crisis management is clear, effective and transparent communication. At the moment, at Sciensano and the website, the data are not up to date. The update is too late. It took five days for the northern part of Italy to appear, from Friday before the carnival holidays until the following Thursday. Another piece of information just came back to me. Apparently, the sampling procedure would no longer be limited to doctors, but the information is not up-to-date again on the Sciensano site. They get an email on a box, which comes from the labs. This email says the information will be communicated. But again, this is not on the Sciensano site. It takes a single ultra-clear and univocal channel of communication to get there, otherwise it's chaos. For the past two weeks, I've been sorry, Madam Minister, but it's really chaos.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u7	I would like to join Mr Gijbels in thanking Professor Van Ranst. He communicated very well over the past few weeks in very difficult circumstances. The employees of the Health and Health Agency, who have been understaffed for years, are also doing all they can today to help as well as possible. Furthermore, some general practitioners report that everything is fine as far as the materials for the first line are concerned. However, other general practitioners indicate that they simply do not have any materials. Yesterday there was another message from a doctor who had no masks or protective clothing and so sent his patients to the emergency department. That is a confusing communication, because Professor Van Ranst has just made a very clear call on the journal not to go to the emergency service. What are we gonna do with that? I find it confusing and I wonder if we still have an emergency stock. Can we learn from the situation and provide in the future an emergency stock of materials for the first line? According to a recommendation from the World Health Organisation, each country must have a policy for airports. I don't hear much about that. What is our policy? What happens at the airports? Shouldn't we be communicating about that anymore? I now come to my comments on communication and coordination. I have the impression that the coordination in Belgium is with you. I think it's a good thing it's happening at the federal level. Even if the Member States are competent, I believe that Europe lacks an opportunity here. In Italy there is a different protocol and there are different screening directives than in France. It seems as if there are a lot of infections in Italy, but if one tests much more, it is difficult to compare. I do not need a European approach in this area. The ECDC does make a lot of good recommendations; we look to Europe and to the Commissioner to take the lead, but we are all Europe. I would therefore ask you to take further action at European level. I am also aware that you are facing major challenges at the moment with regard to your other competence, asylum and migration, but I would like to ask you to play out the European map even more. I asked you about a first-line emergency stock. That question also reached us through the pharmacists. As Mr Depoorter pointed out, they told us that Tamiflu, Kaletra and Plaquenil would no longer be available at the moment or would no longer be available. Do we have an emergency stock of antivirals? How will we deal with this in the next few days and weeks? I realize that it is very difficult to assess how the situation will evolve. Last weekend, you made the assessment that the virus was heading our way. How do you estimate the situation for associations that organise activities next weekend and the following weekend? Can they anticipate that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u8	Mr. Chair, Minister, fear and panic are generally bad counselors. You have understood this adage since, whatever the situation, you keep your head cold. You are not, for those who follow social networks, a drama queen. As I told you on my last question, in this type of crisis, it is important to inform the public clearly and to carry out a series of coordinated actions between the different levels of power, especially in a country like ours where skills have broken out. Minister, my speech will focus on four points. First of all, I would like to comment on the reaction of the authorities. Indeed, it was necessary to wait for the second confirmed case to move from alert phase 1 to phase 2 with the famous containment without any additional measures. On the occasion of the transition to this second phase, the measures have been linked. We felt an intensification of the attention paid to the situation in our country, especially at the end of the Carnival holidays. Nevertheless, the information remains very general. Interviews with each other (representatives of hospitals, doctors, scientists) always indicate contradictory information. We had to wait until yesterday's press conference to feel that real federal coordination had been put in place or that there was a real awareness of the need for such coordination. Before that, there was a whole series of personal initiatives. Since nature hates the void, it has been possible to see mayors taking specific measures for their commune, the Regions taking sometimes different measures. It was, in my view, important to have real federal coordination even though the latter came a little late. You persist in wanting to avoid a wind of panic. Nor am I among those who think that the situation needs to be dramatized, but, on the other hand, I am among those who think that it is necessary to be pragmatic and to anticipate things by looking at all the scenarios. Minister, why was this Kern meeting decided urgently this Sunday, March 1st? How can we explain that an interdepartmental conference on health and that the committee for consultation between the different levels of authority did not take place earlier? I had told you about this in my previous questions, particularly since the Coronavirus crisis began in December 2019 and given the importance of developing a coherent and unified strategy in this area, regardless of the alert phase in which we found ourselves. In comparison to the current situation, thirteen cases have been confirmed. I thank the scientists who are part of this accompanying scientific committee. It is such as to reassure the public that the public authority takes measures and communicates, and that these measures are supervised and advised by a scientific committee. But despite the passage into phase 2 and despite the spread of the virus in Europe, can you tell us why no further action has been taken in our country? These issues come back to the public on a regular basis. What specific element could change this situation and introduce additional measures? You talk regularly about proportional measures, but we know that the situation in our country will change. In fact, France has – an expert from the Institute of Tropical Medicine in Antwerp who says so – ten to fifteen days ahead of us in terms of the spread of this virus. How can we explain that we are in the same alert phase as France, which has taken much more drastic measures, such as the ban on rallies of more than 5,000 people? These are also issues that come back regularly to the population. How can we imagine that France, a neighbouring country, is taking such measures and that in our country we are not aligning ourselves with these measures, which are in fact merely a precautionary principle? I come from a region of carnivals with Binche that has already taken place and others that are still to come. I am obviously not one of those who want them to be cancelled, but here too we must be able to give a clear answer to the people. These are issues that have come back regularly, particularly during the carnival events of this week. In the field of testing, some experts advocate an extension of the criteria for using it: for example, the need for symptoms. Why should such an extension be refused? What would be the consequences for laboratories? Is it not possible to miss out on some cases? Madam Minister, I would have liked to have you shed some light on the situation at airports, because many of our fellow citizens are concerned about it. I am thinking in particular of the lack of specific control. Again this Sunday, you confirmed that this was not a scientific interest. We know that the incubation period plays a role in these controls. Why do some countries apply them? We also know that a Luxembourg citizen infected with the VOCID-19 transited through Charleroi airport. Have any specific measures been taken to trace persons who might have come into contact with this passenger, including those who shared the same flight? What initiatives do you prefer in such cases? What have been the health guidelines given to airports, whose officials seem somewhat distraught, according to the reports in the press? With regard to quarantine, passenger checks or advice, European states are taking isolated measures. This lack of consultation, of course, raises a lot of questions and has only raised concerns among the population. Madam Minister, what are you going to argue in the Council of European Health Ministers tomorrow? The third part concerns information provided to health professionals. On 27 February, general practitioners complained about the lack of information they had to deal with VOCID-19. For its part, the Public Health FPS recalled that all the necessary information had been sent through three emails and that a regularly updated website was available to physicians. We can confront each other's positions with infinity. Nevertheless, the first line clearly does not feel sufficiently armed and its concern needs to be taken into account. In my view, the management of the first line is crucial to contain the spread of this virus. Minister, could you give us an update on the situation? You said that protocols were sent to general practitioners. But in the light of the messages that come back to me from many of them, it seems that they are not sufficiently armed. Can you confirm that they have the necessary equipment? Do you intend to provide them with kits, as was the case in other crises, under other governments? There was talk of extreme influence in the emergency services of hospitals. In my opinion, a front-line service could help relieve emergency services. If they are not armed enough, things may be very complicated. Minister, have you considered setting up mobile screening teams? If so, what about their funding? Indeed, if hospital care staff were assigned to these mobile units, hospitals would see the number of their staff reduced, which would obviously not be a good thing. If these mobile units are requested to be made up of general practitioners, they will have to be financed. There is a need for a clear response in this area. This is my last point about our ability to respond to the epidemic. We are not at the stage of other countries, especially Europeans, but a country like ours with the health care system we know must be ready to deal with a possible epidemic. For this reason, it is impossible to allow actors to improvise or take completely disparate locoregional measures, such as those I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, sometimes for lack of resources, sometimes for lack of information. In my group's view, a real battle plan supported by the authorities is therefore necessary. It has been pointed out several times in the press that our country is ready to deal with a possible outbreak of VOCID-19, and that a worst case scenario has been envisaged to study our ability to deal with this possible epidemic. I am not a supporter of ambient or sometimes reigning catastrophism, but we must prepare for the worst in order to manage a significant flow of patients. We know that reference hospitals such as Saint-Pierre in Brussels and UZ in Antwerp are obviously ready. But what about the whole country? In particular, you said that Belgium would have the capacity to respond to an epidemic, since it has already done so with seasonal flu, among other things via the flu plan. However, we struggle to believe that coronavirus can be so easily compared to influenza. Detection differs in the capacity of the laboratories and the type of test. Tracing differs, hospital capacity also. Making a parallel between seasonal flu and coronavirus seems to me to be a somewhat easy shortcut. Minister, do our hospitals have sufficient bed capacity? Should each hospital reserve a specific hospital capacity? Is the principle of one referral hospital per province considered? One could imagine prefabricated chambers that would allow patients to completely isolate from hospital structures. This would allow hygiene measures to be systematized and thus reduce risks. What other measure would address the architectural limitations of hospitals? How will hospitals define care priorities, if they have to reserve beds in the event of an outbreak of coronavirus? What about hospital staff? Today we have no answer to a whole series of questions. These elements raise questions among the population and contribute to artistic blur. It has been reported in the press that patients detected positive but asymptomatic or with moderate symptoms may remain in their homes. However, the patient detected this Sunday was admitted to hospital when you said, Madam Minister, that she was in good health and that she had only moderate symptoms. The positive patient confirmed this Monday was sent back to his home. What about home care? What about home quarantine pending test results? How can they be implemented safely? As far as sample analysis is concerned, it is known that KU Leuven is the reference laboratory for the moment. Could other laboratories collaborate if the number of samples increased significantly? This could answer questions from the N-VA, which expresses concerns about routing. Finally, as has been said, our citizens have already rushed over the protective masks. But its use is too often inappropriate. Again, there seems to be a lack of correct information. For having made a series of contacts this week, in particular with doctors, I can say that many of them would be in favour of a campaign of awareness or information via spots for the proper use of these masks. Another key issue, which has also been addressed by other colleagues, is the availability of masks in general practitioners and hospitals. What about the availability of masks today? Has an inventory been made in all hospitals? Could a sufficient stock be built up? What impact will this use of masks have on the usual needs of surgical mask operating rooms? Belgium is participating in a joint European purchase of oral masks and other protective equipment to deal with the coronavirus. What capabilities could be available and when? That is a whole series of questions that I wanted to ask you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u9	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the brief but clear explanation. Meanwhile, there are 15 known cases in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u10	There have been 13 cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u11	Okay, so 13 cases. If we're being honest, it's probably just the tip of the iceberg. It is not surprising that people ask questions and are concerned. It is therefore not surprising that questions are put in this committee and our concerns are expressed. People who express their concern call you drama queens, but I have questions about that. The Vlaams Belangroep also asks questions. It's a reasonable laundry list. You keep talking about enough shelters, but what's enough? Are those enough shelters for the sausage case scenario? I would like to know how many shelters we have and how many we need in the worst case scenario. Colleagues have also mentioned the medical material, for example mouth masks. There are too few mouth masks, not only those that stop the virus, but also, as Mr Gijbels pointed out, the masks that surgeons and dentists need. How will you solve this? Are there enough breathing equipment? The WHO has called on Member States to invest in new breathing appliances. Will you do this? Or do you think there's enough? The first-line caregivers complain that they are not or are insufficiently aware and insufficiently protected, and that they do not have the necessary test kits to test patients with symptoms. Is the necessary mouth masks still provided for the first-line caregivers? Do they get enough test kits so that the patient does not have to be sent from the cabinet to the wall? Is there a test for both viruses, the common flu virus and the corona virus? According to BVAS, there is no clarity as to whether the European group purchase is about the right mouth masks. Is this about the FFP2 or FFP3 mouth masks? I like to get confirmation if it's about those masks, otherwise such group buying doesn't seem to be of much use. We have two reference centres. That may not be enough if we reach the top of the infections. Can other hospitals take care of patients? Can other hospitals run tests? Are they sufficiently equipped for this? When the virus caught its head, there was a vaccine. How's that going? Any sign of a vaccine or any other medication? Now that the economy is partly flattened in China, this may in the long term pose problems in terms of the availability of raw materials for the necessary medicines. Are those raw materials already limited? Can these raw materials be replaced by raw materials already available in Europe? That's how the problem can be solved? If so, will the medicines be more expensive for the patient and for our social security? Given that the symptoms of common flu are the same as those of corona, isn't it better to test all people with flu symptoms for corona, as Professor Goossens rightly suggested? What are the costs of a test for the patient but also for the government? Are these costs fully borne by our social security or does the patient also have to pay a share? Are all medical labs equipped to distinguish the corona virus from the common flu virus? Or should all samples be sent to specialized labs? Will those specialized labs be able to handle the influx? In De Standaard of 6 February we read that a drug developed against Ebola could be a weapon in the fight against the coronavirus. Studies in experimental animals had previously shown that the medicinal product in question can help remdesivir against SARS and MERS. Did you know about such an investigation? How far is that investigation? What is the role of Belgian researchers in this? If I'm not mistaken, the vaccine against Ebola comes from Belgian labs. Do you have contacts with the company of remdesivir? Has it been used on humans in the fight against SARS and MERS? When reading the article by Dr. Devos, specialist, I wonder if the care sector is ready for the doom scenario as Dr. Devos suggests. Is our Department of Health ready to act in the worst case? My colleague will take the floor on the other questions put by our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u12	Mr President, Minister, I will be very brief. Whether the current number of infected people in our country is 13 or 15, let me say in the middle, it is certain that if we use the distribution model, we will be at 15 patients very quickly and then the discussion about the number is not sustainable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u13	Juist is a juist.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u14	I agree, Madam Secretary, but you also know how a virus spreads. The discussion about 13 or 15 patients is similar to discussing the opinion of Potato or Potahto. Unlike you and several colleagues, I am neither a doctor nor a pharmacist nor a professor. I don't have a medical background at all. I'm, what we could call, the modal Fleming, the modal family father wondering if his family is safe. I wonder who we should believe. For us, I shall just call ourselves the ordinary people, there has been a great question mark over the last few weeks and months. On the one hand, a group of people in whom we should have confidence say that it is not going to go so fast. On the other hand, a group of people, medical professionals, leans on all kinds of doom scenarios. The latter is tapped by our good friends from the media, looking for a good scoop or a spectacular story. I am not even talking about social media, because then we will not get out of the discussion at all. Who are we supposed to believe? We, the ordinary people, don't really remember that anymore. Should we believe an open letter from a medical professional or should we believe you as a minister when you call that medical professional a drama queen? Madam Secretary, I promised to be brief and I will. At the same time, my question is critical. Why is there no clear, correct, understandable information? I am referring to information for the medical professionals, general practitioners and people in primary care as well as for the citizen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u15	Mr President, I shall then give the floor to Mrs Jadin. Minister, I welcome the government's efforts to manage the crisis in our country. On 28 January, we had already had an exchange in this committee on the risk of an epidemic of coronavirus. You had not at any time ruled out that cases could occur in Belgium. Almost a month later, we are facing a new situation and the planning of phases 1, 2 and 3 is very clear. This state of affairs therefore requires us to take on these phases in order to protect our citizens in the most optimal way. By the end of January, I had been able to ask you a few questions, including diagnosis, conventional care and intensive care capabilities, and information and communication for professionals and our people. In the context of crisis management, it is clear that effective and rapid management requires that efficiency and speed be recognized. It is extremely important that everyone speaks with one voice and uses the same approach with coolness and mastery. All organizational methods, techniques and means must enable the organization to prepare for and respond to a crisis. Continuously, it is necessary to evaluate and learn from the event to improve procedures and structures. It is therefore necessary to anticipate, act, evaluate and begin to anticipate, act and evaluate. In this sense, I welcome the work that is being done. Today's commission must allow our Minister of Health, as well as the government, to be able to assess the points on which efforts are still to be made and to operate quickly. In terms of communication and as a mayor, I can assure you that transparency is essential. The communication is clear. It is quick and coordinated between the federal authority, the federated entities and the governor. It comes very clearly and precisely to the mayors who, in view of their responsibilities to their people, can activate the communication and transmit the recommendations, obviously remaining in control of the situation by following the recommendations that emanate from the federal, while avoiding falling into unnecessary excesses, which would cause a feeling of excessive anguish to the population legitimately worried. Phase 1 had been clearly clarified by the Minister, particularly in plenary session. She recalled that the priority then was to keep the virus out of the country and delay its arrival in our territory. She added that there was close collaboration between the Public Health FPS, physicians and hospitals. We are now in phase 2, which has never been hidden by the federal authorities, since it was also explained to us. At this stage, the priority is to stop the spread of the virus. As a mayor, I told you that we were receiving very clear communications. Even yesterday, the Crisis Centre sent us one. In addition, the materials are expanded: we receive posters; the official channels reach us; the information is disseminated on social media; we have to copy and paste texts to publish them on our websites in order to best inform the public – for example, about how BE-Alert is used. In addition, we obtain information from BE-Ready for teaching staff and, therefore, also for children, as they are at the heart of our concerns. Communication is clear, rapid, transparent, coordinated and concerted. All levels of power contact the communal authorities, which are – I would remind you – the ones closest to the population. It is extremely important, in crisis management, to be as close as possible to the citizens, to talk to them and to explain things to them in an ultra-transparent way, in the interests of efficiency. You know that, despite the important communication that is being deployed by the public authorities, there are still legitimate questions raised by my colleagues. They must be put down in order to perfect this crisis management for the benefit of our citizens. As far as contagion is concerned, without repeating what has already been requested by my colleagues, could you clarify what measures are decided at this level? Can medical experts determine from when and until when a person who has contracted coronavirus is contagious? What about the 14 days initially assessed? What measures are taken outside of home medical visits during suspicion? How exactly does the supervision of a patient take place during his or her home isolation? The past week of school leave has inevitably created important flows and it was predictable – you announced it – especially with connections between our nationals and resort sites that have become risk areas. At this level, should additional additional precautionary measures be taken? Have you considered this with your colleagues? How do you explain the differences in treatment between our neighbouring countries and the framework we are putting in place in our country? It is a legitimate question that we also ask ourselves at our level. We have indeed seen the exponential increase in the number of patients in some very touristic areas in a short time. We therefore wonder whether events are or will be cancelled. Should places be closed so as not to have to take excessive measures as mayor which would not lend themselves to the assessment of the situation? Is specific follow-up required of family doctors for our returning nationals? Has any specific information been provided to pharmacists, nurses and home helpers? With regard to front-line help, what do you think of the test broadcast by the VUB as part of an electronic message? Personally, I think it's interesting, but I wanted to have you back today before I broadcast it? This could alleviate and complement the front-line work of health professionals. Should this initiative be considered? In addition, what returns do you receive from general practitioners and pharmacists? Are they asking for specific support? If so, which one? Do they receive the necessary equipment to be able to treat without contracting the virus? We know there's a rush on masks and disinfectant gels. Can you clarify again the use of masks? Who should they be for? Should the people themselves obtain them? I'm thinking, for the nursing staff, of the FFP2 masks. Has a stock of equipment been delivered? In this regard, could you give a specific point on the usefulness of anti-virus and respiratory masks for the different FFP1, FFP2 and FFP3 masks? What mask is suitable for health care professionals? Which one is suitable for the population? Is there really a difference? I now come to the capacity to accommodate the places of care. In concrete terms, do we have all the guarantees in terms of infrastructure and reception staff for the planning of reception and care? Like my colleagues, I am reading a lot of information that can be contradictory at the moment. Are there plans to increase the number of referral hospitals? Is the provision of specific equipment and personnel resources decided or planned? Can you also clarify again what special plans are in place, in terms of the necessary quantities of medicines and equipment of the masks and gloves used in our hospitals and for the population, for example? Have new initiatives had to be taken at this level for our country or within the framework of European cooperation? You were talking earlier about a European market. Finally, with regard to the organisation of public places, what coordinated measures have been taken for places hosting communities such as schools, rest homes and other public infrastructure? At this level, according to what legal and medical framework can one decide to remove a person from these places and his or her place of work? This information is essential and important to our role as local agents. What can be clearly done if we feel at some point that a person should be excluded? This person could go to the doctor who would decide not to cover him/her because he/she does not have symptoms, while the person would feel that he/she is at risk, because he/she returns from a region recognized as such. What new decisions were taken at your last consultation meeting with the federated entities? What protocol is in place with your counterpart of the interior, within the framework of local competences, and with the mayors, alongside the information actions that are already being carried out by the Crisis Centre? It was stated that the Minister of the Interior would take over at some point. Could you tell us when, under what circumstances and with what means of communication he will do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u16	Mr President, I will speak very briefly since my colleague has already been exhaustive on all the issues raised. Like my colleagues, first of all, I would like to say to you, Madam Minister, that you are very cold-hearted and that I too think that in such a situation it is important. We must not give in to panic because more panic creates even more anxiety. It is therefore necessary to inform in a responsible, coherent and integrated manner, as was done this weekend in the Council of Ministers but also yesterday in the Committee for Consultation with Regional and Community Ministers. We must communicate as transparently and reassuringly as possible throughout our territory. In other countries, things don't go so coherently at different levels of power, so we find ourselves in unreassuring situations, which are echoed in the media. On the German side, in my region, I am told of the case of a small town entirely quarantined. That raises a lot of questions. Thus, large-scale events in France are gradually being cancelled. I join the question that many municipalists are asking: what about the great events that will take place in the weeks and months to come in our communes, in confined spaces? Are there any indications in this regard? Coordination at all levels of power is absolutely essential. As you mentioned, thirteen new cases of VOCID-19 are listed in our country. Are they exclusively people who came back from Italy? Indeed, there, the home has been particularly large, although it is also growing daily in other countries. Hence the importance of monitoring the evolution of the spread on a day-to-day basis. I have been visited the website info-coronavirus.be several times, it is properly updated. I understand that more effort still needs to be made. I imagine you'll tell us more about this. Madam Minister, since a hotline has been installed, would it be possible to make it available in German? This request has indeed been made by several citizens of my region. Finally - and I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs the same question - could you give me any answers about Belgians quarantined abroad? Are there any collaborations between the Public Health FPS and the countries where Belgian nationals are located? I am thinking of the case of Tenerife, where 700 people, including 120 of our compatriots, were placed in quarantine. Do exchanges of information and good processes take place to help us evolve?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u17	Madam Secretary, a lot of questions have already been asked. We are currently in phase 2, but I wonder whether enough is happening today not to be in phase 3. Professor Herman Goossens of UZ Antwerp recommends a broader test. Why is Belgium not doing so at the moment? Neighbours such as the Netherlands and the United Kingdom do. I would have liked to have heard the reasons why we are not going into this. Given the rapid spread, that does not seem to me to be an unnecessary luxury. In addition, there is a question that lives with many citizens, especially at airports. Those controls have still not been implemented today. Of course, I have seen the WHO's opinion that is not put forward as a major measure, but given the patient who arrived in Charleroi, I wonder whether this should not be a priority at airports to at least protect public health. If we can capture files in good time, we can avoid worse. That's better than healing in this case. I also have a question about the contacts with the Länder. A lot of parents are worried about whether or not to send their kids to school. There are also questions as to whether sports is still possible. I am thinking, for example, of pool complexes and others. What are the contacts with the Länder about this? Have guidelines been sent to the fields Education and Sports to ensure rest among parents and children? A number of holidaymakers were advised to stay in quarantine at home. I read in the paper that those passengers went home on public transport. The transfer from the airport to their home destination thus took place by train or other public transport. Can we not take measures to ensure that other infections cannot occur in the event of movements? Is the capacity of the labs and quarantine beds sufficient to absorb an increase in COVID-19 patients? What is the point of turning to stage 3 measures? Do big events and schools only get the advice to close? On what basis will measures be taken by your cabinet? Of course, there must be no panic in our country. Have any agreements been made on this with the press and the media? On my cell phone I get a report about the coronavirus and about all the steps that are being taken in this respect every ten minutes. Would it not be useful to carry out a kind of awareness campaign, including in the media, on the subject of reporting, so as to ensure that there is not too much panic among the citizens and to maintain control and calm, if there is one? Mrs Gijbels has already raised the issue of mouth masks. It has clearly expressed all its reservations. I would like to assist her in her question to get more information on this matter. Finally, I read an article describing that malaria pills would have some kind of inhibitory effect on the coronavirus. Is that effective? Do we have enough pills at our disposal? Can you give more information about malaria pills and their unavailability?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, without prejudice to everyone's rights, I would like to point out that it is 11.35 a.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u19	Mr President, Minister, we have discussed this on several occasions here in committee. The corona virus has arrived in our country. It's a very contagious virus. Today we can expect a number of cases to be added between now and the end of this week. The incubation period is about six days. The people who have returned from Italy, among others, will show some symptoms between now and a few days. We are therefore fortunate to see that the flu epidemic is falling sharply. We must therefore make every effort not to make the outbreak exponential. We do this via contact tracing and by isolating the sick patients. The general prevention and hygiene measures, including hand hygiene measures, have also been very emphasised. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to congratulate the experts of the expert committee, who are working every day and putting all their hands on deck to inform the people but also to prepare everything in our country. I really want to congratulate them on their efforts. I would also like to congratulate all those who work in primary care in our country, which is the staff of the emergency services. I'm a general practitioner myself. Yesterday morning and last week we were attacked with calls. However, I will share an experience and give information that is totally contrary to what has been said by my colleagues from the N-VA and the VB. I find that the information material made available to professionals is really adequate and updated. The Sciensano website is really well done. We also had a number of contacts with AViQ doctors, including patients who had stayed in Italy. These were really available to explain whether we had to take samples or not. Yesterday afternoon, we received an e-mail saying that it was no longer necessary to call each time but that we can do analyses ourselves if we consider it useful. We also had contact with our laboratory, which contacted the Louvain laboratory. If we deem it necessary, we can take samples as general practitioners. I think it's a bit scandalous to ask again how to find out. The official news site (www.info-coronavirus.be) as well as the telephone number, television news or elsewhere have been constantly recalled. I think that at this level we can congratulate all those who are managing this crisis, which is not yet a crisis at present, because we have only thirteen cases. I was also surprised and outraged yesterday morning when I saw that several ministers began to communicate in every direction. For the PTB, this crisis also proves the ridicule of all the state reforms we have experienced. You then decided to report the number of cases, every day at 10:00 a.m. I congratulate you. I denounce a lack of hierarchy in our country. The different levels of power can all do as they want. I appeal today to your sense of responsibility. I think everyone can understand that today we need a centralized policy to manage this kind of crisis based on scientific recommendations. Some would better remember the proverb "shoemaker, stick to your read." There is no need to spread disaster scenarios to the population. A physician syndicate said yesterday that 33 000 to even 50,000 could be killed, although 3,000 deaths have been recorded worldwide to this day. I am a general practitioner and take into account the information of the government, the FPS Public Health and Sciensano. I think that everyone should stick to their competences and that we should rely on the expert committee. I would like to address one last important point for the PTB. In this sequence, health must take precedence over the economy. If people, for example, have to stay at home to look after a family member who is sick or because they are themselves ill, it is obviously not possible for them to take days off, as we have already heard today. I hope that we will take the necessary steps to ensure that these people do not lose their income. The questions are similar to those I have already asked in plenary or in the first topical debate we have had. What about the mask reserve? Indeed, some general practitioners such as front-line doctors have masks and others do not. Can they get them? Have you placed an order? Are you going to receive them? Then, how do you assess the capacity of the first line in our country to deal with the high number of cases? What measures do you intend to take to support the first line? Are support measures for hospital staff planned because we know they are already under pressure? It's not for nothing that they've been on strike in the last few months. It is a legitimate question whether they are in a position to obtain additional capacity. As far as hospital equipment is concerned, we know that each hospital has a general contingency plan. At the material level, for example, have orders been placed? Do we have an idea of the inventory of respiratory equipment that might be needed? Finally, and this is a rhetorical question, what role can we play? I speak as a general practitioner but also as a member of a party that puts health at the heart of its concerns. You can count on us to have a constructive but nevertheless vigilant attitude in the management of the coronavirus crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u20	Madam Secretary, thank you for your brief introduction. As expected, there are a lot of questions. Panic is indeed a bad counselor; it has been said before. I'm mayor, just like some of my colleagues here. I'm also getting a lot of questions about the corona virus. For example, it is asked whether I will ban children who have traveled to Italy from going to school and whether I will completely close all the schools in my territory. A number of questions are now being asked about the mouth masks. After all, there is a danger of a shortage. These questions are prompted by a certain panic among the population. People now think they should put in a supply of mouth masks. It is indeed a good thing that the government keeps a cool head and communicates in a correct, scientifically based way and succeeds the problem, as is happening now. I am not good at math, but according to my quick calculation, it is now about 0.000% of the infected population in Belgium. Worldwide, the figure is about 0.00%. In China, rounded to three decimal places, it amounts to 0.005 %. That does not mean, of course, that we should ignore the problem. No, the virus is highly contagious, we all know that. So, of course, the necessary preparations must be made to manage the crisis. I hope that we will continue to do so in the current scientific way. I have five questions for you myself. Some of them have already been put to a lesser or more degree, but I will go over them all anyway. I particularly have questions about the quarantine. Firstly, a number of people may be quarantined at home, while others are kept in hospital. What criteria are used in this respect? How is it decided whether someone can go home or stay in the hospital? Secondly, infected persons are identified with whom they have come into contact. Here a number of examples have already been given of infected persons who have taken public transport. In what way is that mapped out? How do people have to keep an eye on their health? We are often told that they have to pay attention to certain signals. Thirdly, until now, people infected with the coronavirus apparently went to the hospital, while always the advice is to call the general practitioner first. Has the opinion been passed on sufficiently to those concerned? Or were they patients who had been referred to a hospital by their GP? In the press, it's like all these patients went straight to the emergency room. Fourthly, we hear that the labs are increasing their testing capacity. Hospitals other than the reference hospitals may now also carry out tests. Will the capacity be increased further? Is it even possible to push them further? Fifthly, I have a question about the three phases. At the moment we are in phase 2. What measures should we propose in phase 3? What measures can be considered? What is the criterion for deciding to move to Stage Three?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u21	Mr President, I shall try to keep it brief. Madam Minister, in the current circumstances it is particularly important to avoid panic. To this end, it is necessary to communicate clearly and clearly with concrete and clear lines, which will help people. In my opinion, this has been done so far, both by you and by the people of the scientific committee, including Professor Van Ranst. I think communication has been clear so far and with two feet on the ground, which is also an advantage in these circumstances. However, as always, there remain some uncertainties and questions. Questions that have already been asked, I will not repeat. I would like to come back to a few things. As some colleagues have said, Professor Goossens claims that, with limited tests in the reference laboratories and under these strict conditions, we will miss a number of cases. He added that in other European countries more cases were only found after wider testing. He also says that the second victim was found by a broader test. I would therefore like to know very clearly why there is no systematic wider testing. What are the right reasons for this? I'd have liked to get that straight. Which immediately brings me to my second question, a question about the evolution of the outbreak. I understand that the virus is not really going around in Belgium at the moment. All the patients detected so far come directly from an infected area abroad. I would have liked to have confirmed that. But even if you confirm that, it is only a matter of time before we see the contamination going around here in Belgium. Of course, it is difficult to predict how serious it is, but I did read that the president of one of the largest medical syndicates is taking the risk of a prediction today. According to him, up to 850,000 Belgians could be infected. He himself says he gets that grade based on a quick scan. I would like to know whether Sciensano, for example, makes predictions on the basis of clear parameters of the number of cases that can occur in Belgium? That seems interesting and important to me in view of the medication and capacity. I read a lot about the development of medication that could put a brake on the disease. I am not talking about vaccines, which is going to take a long time, but about the medication that could be used in the short term. What's the status there? Then I have one more question about the masks. You mentioned a European group purchase, Madam Secretary. When will we be back in stock? Will the masks from that group purchase go to the aid workers? I agree with you that the masks we can buy in the store make little sense and that this creates a false sense of safety for people. It is important that this is clearly communicated. It is especially important that the mouth masks are back in stock quickly and that they go first and foremost to the aid workers. Europe is organizing a Corona Response Team. Europe also pays EUR 230 million for additional support to the WHO and scientific research. Do you know how much Belgium has already invested or will invest in this crisis? Will this create difficulties for the government in current affairs and the budget? So far my questions, Mr President-in-Office. I was not as short as Mr De Caluwe, but I think it went well.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u22	You did your best, Mrs. Jiroflée.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u23	Mr President, Madam Minister, managing an epidemic, even a pandemic, is obviously never easy. I would also like to pay tribute here to the work of all caregivers and experts. Many people are investing at all levels. Crisis management must be based on four main principles: anticipation, rapid response, coherence and operational effectiveness. We have called for more coherence in recent weeks. She missed it. We can say things very clearly. It has failed at European level, between levels of power, with regard to operational measures. Sometimes we tested, sometimes we didn't. Sometimes the attending doctor was told that the test was refused. In Tenerife, people are stuck in a hotel, others come from the same hotel but are not isolated. Coherence has been lacking, and at the same time, Minister, initiatives have finally been taken at the end of the weekend. There has finally been a concertation between the different levels of power and there will be even more, I hope, a single steering. We need a unique leadership to strengthen this coherence. We'll need it even more tomorrow and the day after tomorrow than yesterday and today. I can only call on you and the various governments in this country to accept and validate a single federal leadership. I won't go back to some things. I've been calling you in the last few weeks. I also went to see you in a special interview to give you a series of information. I have an incredible number of returns from the field. But what interests me is to move things forward on different aspects. First, you call for caution in assessing the number of people affected, that is, thirteen. That's the known figure. Given the fact that a number of individuals are healthy carriers, or extremely unsymptomatic carriers, it is very likely today that there are more than thirteen affected people on our territory. This is all the more true since the number of tests carried out in Belgium is far less than the number of tests carried out in the majority of other European countries. Minister, I would like to call on you to strengthen procedures aimed at protecting particularly the most vulnerable people. These include the elderly, immunocompromised persons and persons with any chronic disease. Let me take an example here that I think is important. Indeed, you have decided not to keep at home people returning from infected areas, areas at risk. It's a choice. But, in doing so, a fundamental message has not been sent to the people concerned: those people who return from infected areas must at all costs avoid, given the uncertainty about their contamination – I recall that today, it is not certain that a person infected with asymptomatic or incubation period does not transmit the virus – to come into contact with the most fragile people. They must avoid, in particular, going to nursing homes, walking around hospitals, oncology services and all services where patients are vulnerable. Avoiding the spread of the virus means, first and foremost, avoiding the contamination of fragile people by others returning from infected areas. I would also like to call on you to strengthen support for caregivers. There are now a number of shortcomings at different levels. I can tell you that some hospitals are already saturated. I am thinking here, in particular, of the emergency services that have to get patients through the floors rather than passing them through the emergency filter, which obviously raises a number of questions. To return to the support to be given to caregivers, I would like to highlight a number of points. There is, first of all, information. Two months ago, Minister, I pleaded for direct information from all caregivers, including home care providers. It is not only about nurses and doctors, but also about dentists, physiotherapists, pharmacists. While there is information online, it must be noted that the information on the regional and federal sites was not always consistent. In France, – let me take this example and hope to change your strategy in this area – all caregivers receive a personalized email, whenever there is an update on the evolution of procedures. There's nothing simpler than e-mails. It's direct and easy. This avoids the need to search for information on the different sites and sometimes to end up with different information as was the case at the beginning. Madam Minister, I suggest that you move this forward. I told you and told you again and tried to convince you again today. With regard to support for caregivers in the equipment, I saw you face-to-face, three weeks ago to tell you that there was a shortage of masks. You made an order last Thursday. Eyeglass devices are not available. What about the military stock of six million FFP2 masks that have already existed for several years? Also in the military reserve, there is normally a stock of about thirty million "normal" masks. What about this stock? What's left? Has he been mobilised? Could it be mobilized? You announced you had placed an order. Many general practitioners, home nurses and pharmacists have received nothing. Last night, France's device was completely in place. She sent a personalized email to each caregiver informing them of the location of the first central stock of masks for caregivers. They know where they can get them. If France is part of the same order at European level, when will we receive the masks in Belgium? Under what procedure? In France, that's it! Their stock is present. Minister, could you clarify the situation? I can tell you that a number of doctors, nurses at home, pharmacists are waiting for these devices. Otherwise, they must find B plans that are known not to be terribly effective. Examining a patient by staying two meters, it's not easy. Madam Minister, I would therefore like to know clearly where we are. In the case of disinfectant gels, has a new order been placed? What about raw materials? Pharmacists can obviously make disinfectant gels themselves, provided they have the raw materials at their disposal. What about the tests? In support of caregivers and hospital devices, the important thing is to have a quick result in the tests that are being requested. Otherwise, the patient must benefit from preventive isolation measures sometimes for 24 hours, as is the case today, which complicate the management of patient circulation at the hospital level or even at home. Are we going to increase the number of laboratories that will be able to perform the tests? What is the time frame for a rapid result using a swab or serum test via PCR that can diagnose the presence of coronavirus? Is it correct that we may experience a shortage of swabs to conduct these tests? If this is not the case, we will be able to move forward and increase the number. This is indeed a major element, especially when doctors consider it useful. However, some of them were refused testing. In my opinion, this is unacceptable. There is therefore a need to change the method. Still about the doctors, I heard you announce on La Première yesterday morning that in the presence of a suspicious case, the attending physician had to always go to the patient's home. Madam Minister, on this point, we will have to change the procedure. For my part, I plead for a single procedure such that, when a patient has suspicious symptoms of coronavirus, logistical assistance can be provided in the first line. Given the well-filled waiting rooms, it is currently impossible to force treating physicians to visit patients' homes systematically. Some circles have organized themselves to assign one of their members to this task. Since some regions suffer, as you know, from a shortage of general practitioners, this is not possible everywhere. In this case, it seems to me that, in consultation between the federal and the Communities, we could develop a support system for treating doctors. In this way, additional practitioners could also go to the patient's home to perform the necessary tests and support the work provided by the general practitioners and the first line. In order to remain in support of caregivers, it is important to take stock of hospitals. The mechanisms put in place will change as the epidemic evolves, possibly releasing beds. In the worst case scenario, beds might be missing. However, one aspect has not yet been noted. I'm talking about the capacity of assisted ventilation devices in intensive care. This point remains extremely sensitive and sensitive. I don't know if there's such a reserve in our hospitals. So I'd like to hear from you about that. On the economic side, I will question Minister Muylle because arrangements can be made in this area. In addition to support for caregivers, I would also like to call for greater coherence at European level, Madam Minister. In addition to the aspects of care I have just mentioned, there is the aspect of travel abroad, with schools having planned northern Italy as their destination. Let us recognize that European countries are taking different measures! France, for example, unless travel is essential, recommends that travellers and schools no longer travel to northern Italy. It seems to me important that a health message be coordinated at European level. It is also an element that will allow, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, to slow down viral progression as much as possible. Mr President, I have tried to synthesize and, above all, to avoid duplication.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u24	You had a specific question, Mrs Safai. Do you still want to ask?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u25	Madam Secretary, there are more people in shelters, in smaller spaces. Some asylum seekers come from countries with high risks for the spread of the virus, or travel through Italy, for example. We also know that there is a crisis and that people are trying to reach Europe from Turkey. I have a number of questions about that. What additional measures are you planning for the asylum centres following the spread of the coronavirus? What is the current procedure for asylum applications from China and the Chinese region, where there is still a huge spread of the corona virus? Many asylum seekers who apply for asylum here have been traveled through Italy. In Italy there are currently a lot of coronavirus infections in several places. What risks do you think there are? Are you planning measures for asylum seekers who apply for asylum and have travelled through Italy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u26	That was a question concerning both Health and Asylum and Migration, Madam Secretary. You will now finally be given the floor for a detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think there is a panic among the people, but those who have followed the statements made by some Members of Parliament may now be a little panicked. It is good that someone else remains cold-blooded, rational and with her feet on the ground, as Mrs Jadin said. Twenty-five years of working as a general practitioner, such as Mrs Merckx, is a good training, because when the doctor panics, starts crying or walks away, where is the patient? Then who's gonna help the patient? My luggage can help here a little bit. It is not for nothing that I am advised by a committee composed of experts, in this case virologists. It's a new virus. We didn't know it a few weeks ago. It's a virus that we didn't know how it would behave or how aggressive it would be. The virus is closely monitored by the Scientific Committee, also in consultation with experts from abroad. The chairman of that committee, Mr Steven Van Gucht, is here to answer the questions put by this committee. The Scientific Committee also advises the Risk Management Group. I was asked what decisions I make. I naturally follow the recommendations of that Risk Management Group. This group is the decision-making and reporting platform for public health emergencies. This was well drawn up on the basis of the International Health Regulations of 2005. This concerns serious cross-border threats to health. Since this virus is present on all continents in more than 60 countries and has spread from China all over the world, it is a good thing that we immediately activated this regulation. As far as the plan of action is concerned, there are procedures and plans, such as internal and external emergency plans in hospitals. These are updated each time according to what happens. At the beginning of this legislature we had the Ebola crisis. There I had the honour and the pleasure of determining the measures. This is a completely different virus from the Ebola virus. It is therefore necessary to adapt the existing procedures and plans for this virus. It also involves experts who give advice on what needs to be considered. There is also a Search Capacity Plan of previous virus epidemics that is also updated to watch how this virus evolves. It has already been said here: we have a complicated political system. I do not often agree with Mrs Merckx, but in that respect we are on the same page. Despite the fragmentation of powers over the various Länder, I am making it a matter of working together in full. Many questions have been asked about the precise distribution of powers in the field of public health. That is why we have had many meetings with the Länder. This is why the Länder have not only taken on the administrative part, but are also in contact with the various Cabinets in the Risk Management Group. We must now prove that the existing system and the fragmentation of health care do not result in our citizens being less properly monitored and treated. It is precisely for this reason that good cooperation with colleagues is needed. The fight against infectious diseases and the organisation and support of primary care are a regional responsibility. However, if we can help each other in this matter, we will do the same. However, we must also admit that the special law does not give me the authority to make decisions in state affairs. The special law is particularly clear: each level has its powers and has the responsibility to complete those powers. Mrs Gijbels, you have spoken of calamities. However, 'Calamities' is a word that does not include one, eight, thirteen or twenty patients. In the Netherlands there is indeed a calamity hospital. However, that is for example an attack or a fire, where there are hundreds of wounded at the same time. So it can be compared to the burn center, which is also included internationally in a burn plan for large fires. So let us put things in perspective. I would not use the word 'calamity' in a new virus, which is more likely to behave properly and become a type of flu virus in the future. You've taken the word four times. I repeat it twice now and downsize it already. The communication must be dosed and smooth. We also assume that people who are professionally active in health care can read. This also explains the importance of the website of Sciensano, which is kept daily up-to-date. Hence also the importance of the communication by the FPS Public Health and the information about the coronavirus. So we will not write to each aid worker individually, because that takes more time. Information can be found on the website of Sciensano according to the professional activity of the website visitor, e.g. a nurse or a dentist. Many colleagues have spoken about the mouth masks. At the request of the Risk Management Group, the High Health Council issued an opinion on this. That advice has been announced for today, but I haven't received it yet. An important question is what about the rational use of all kinds of masks. Many masks have already been sold to private individuals. Many masks sold were sent to other countries, in this case China. The previous EPSCO Council asked whether our Member States could also send masks to China. I replied that we want to help in all possible ways, but not by sending in our masks. The largest producer of mouth masks is located in China. What happens if we send mouth masks to China, but China doesn't send back new mouth masks? That is why I, as one of the few ministers, refused to send in masks from here. However, I understand that individuals have also purchased mouth masks. Mrs Depoorter, I may not know as many pharmacists as you do, but I have heard that Chinese people have bought masks up to the smallest villages, and I see that you are nodding. Rational use of mouth masks is mainly aimed at the caregivers. Not every patient needs a mouth mask, so not every patient who goes to a waiting room needs to put on a mouth mask. Rational use for older and fragile people I will have Professor Van Gucht explain in a moment. The Risk Management Group will also today consider possible recommendations to the Communities, for example with regard to residential care centres. The most fragile people are 80+ and, as Mrs Fonck said, people with an affected immune system, affected by, for example, disease, chemotherapy or other therapies. It is up to Professor Van Gucht to look into this this afternoon. The supervision of people in home quarantine is also regulated through the Communities. Those people will, of course, be retested before they are allowed out of quarantine. We must be sure that these people are no longer contagious. I think Professor Van Gucht will be able to answer that later. With regard to Mrs Depoorter's first question on the purchase of masks, this joint procurement has been discussed. There's been a disturbance on the market. Production from China has stopped and China has asked all countries to send masks. Many citizens have sent there as well. We know about Alibaba. In the previous EPSCO, all Member States had already raised the problem of stopping the supply of masks. We immediately registered on that joint procurement, like France and many other countries. We will ask on Friday at EPSCO what the delivery time is. Normally, it's 40 days. We'll ask if it can't go any faster. We are also working on a second track. Dr. Pardon has already had a lot of contacts to get a second lead on masks for our country. The problem is that we are a very small country. The larger the volumes ordered, the higher one seems to be on the list. That's what I just heard. That is not good for us as a small country, hence the group purchase. When that group purchase arrives, it will also be a phased delivery. With regard to the test capacity for the analyses and the tests necessary to prove the presence of the coronavirus, the capacity is more than sufficient. In order to save time, we will also use other labs. That will also be a decision of the Risk Management Group. We have the reference lab, but also the backup lab of Sciensano can run those tests. That hasn't been activated yet. There are three other labs and then nineteen that are framed and eligible because they are equipped to carry out that test. We will examine whether we can not use more labs for the first test and then always the reference test in the reference lab of the KUL, in order to do a scaling-up. That can limit the number of hours a patient has to wait. The question has been asked whether there is no quick test. It is important that the results of the test we use are reliable. The people who have been tested must now wait in isolation until the results of the test are known. If a quick test says that everything is safe, and people let these people go again when the check shows that something is going on, we will get into trouble. I've received several questions related to medications that can work. Mrs Depoorter states that there is not enough chloroquine in Belgium. This is not produced in Belgium. In the Netherlands there is a small production for one indication, namely for some rare form of lupus. Professor Van Gucht will go into that in more detail, Mrs Depoorter. I assume he knows better, so I'll have him say it, you won't believe me anyway, but at the moment there's no evidence that chloroquine is working against the virus. That's important, isn't it? The professor will explain how far the testing of medication is going. One is really not yet so far away that one has an activity, even a minor activity on the virus in humans. I believe that people are still in an early stage of working with mice. Mrs. Depoorter, you'd better not hit a lot of boxes, because you're probably gonna have to worry about it, like we used to with Tamiflu, I'd wait until it's decided if it works. There's no problem with the swabs. Contacts have been made with COPAN and other Swab suppliers. There are plenty of them available. The labs you work with as a doctor can get you those swabs. You've also asked questions about the medium. I will also have Professor Van Gucht reply to that. The case definition is important: who should be screened? I told you, that doesn't happen arbitraryly. There are two criteria. First of all, is someone sick, does he have a sore throat, fever, cough, or all three of them together? Secondly, has he been in contact with people in one of the risk areas or has he been in contact with someone who was ill? Even then, of course, the examination by a doctor is still necessary. Then it can be seen whether a test is indeed needed. We have not made a strict framework, otherwise people should not be investigated. The clinical picture of a patient says a lot, for example the clinical picture of someone with a snot nose. After all, this is a virus that is very deep in the bronchi. If anyone's got any complaints there, it's the lead. If we could do everything through Dr. Google, people would no longer have to be examined by a doctor. They also asked about the test on the internet and the degree to which it is accurate. We are very careful about the accuracy of that test. A visit to the doctor is essential given the importance of clinical trials and history. There were also questions about the functioning of the Health and Health Agency. Mrs Depoter, I assume you will pass on the answer to your colleagues in the Flemish Parliament. We have good cooperation with the agencies of the various Länder. If a patient has been detected, these agencies are immediately notified to ensure follow-up and very important retracing. Mrs. Depoorter cited the case from a sample that remained in the hospital for 15 hours. In that case, it is first and foremost the responsibility of the hospital. I don't have a camera in every hospital to check how long the samples stay there. In this respect, the responsibility of the respective hospitals lies with the transport sector. Mrs. Hmente, I'm going to ask Mr. Van Gucht to answer you about the detection criteria. For geographical criteria, we have changed the procedure for areas at risk. Previously, it was necessary to go through the Risk Management Group in order to adapt risk areas to Sciensano. From now on, Sciensano can add them himself. Now that the virus has really left Hubei, there will be other areas of risk. It took a few days each time. Now it's gonna go faster. This is now updated daily or several times a day because Sciensano can add a new risk zone as soon as it appears. This is also important for travel notices and for knowing the important geographical criteria. There are, of course, the health and complaints criteria. I've already gone into that. I now turn to the questions about the number of masks of each species ordered. In a procurement joint, you cannot give details of the number of masks, of what type, etc. That's very detailed in the procedure. Member States may not provide such information. Let me turn to the question of the number of beds. What is important is not the number of beds. This is the ability of the medical profession to offer treatment to patients. This includes everything around the patient. Again, the numbers for acute influenza must be considered. It is not a flu as we have now, because the current flu is very modest. It's the most modest one in years. The number of people in hospitals for acute influenza has increased to 10,000. Now, fortunately, this is no longer the case. The flu peak is over. It is good that we have won a few weeks; that is why we have worked so hard on this. I've said that we get further away from the flu surge every week, which is good for the capacity in the hospitals. We won't have to put the flu patients next to the corona patients in a bed there. I'm really glad that's being followed up on Sciensano. If you look at that, we'll be two weeks past the flu surge. In France these two weeks have not been achieved, with full understanding of the circumstances, but for us these weeks have been crucial for the capacity to provide people in hospitals. That is a good thing. We knew, of course, that it was only a delay. I've always warned of the moment when people would return from vacation. In recent days we have known that there have been some major risk areas, from which we would have patients here. Now it appears that the patients who have been added in the last two days do not all happen to come from the risk zones. A worst case scenario was also developed, although not with the APSIM calculator. We have developed a realistic worst case scenario within the risk management group. Let me give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u28	I will start by setting out the background, after which I will answer the questions that have been asked or which the Minister has passed on to me. As you know, we are dealing here with the coronavirus, which belongs to the family of the coronaviridae. That's a family of viruses we've known a long time. We have known for decades that there are four coronaviruses circulating in humans, all causing very mild symptoms, typical cold symptoms. In 2002, a completely new corona virus, the SARS-coronavirus, appeared. I'm glad it went out after a few months. There's no such thing anymore. For a number of years now, in the Middle East, we have also known the MERS corona virus, which does not spread well from human to human. It's about from dromedaries to people. As a result, this remains a local problem in the Middle East and we have never had to worry much about it. Since December there has been an outbreak in Wuhan, the epicenter, of a completely new corona virus, which has since been baptized SARS-CoV-2. It's actually a nephew of the old-fashioned SARS corona virus. We have strong suspicions that it comes from bats. Possibly there's another in-between host that we don't know yet. That virus causes a clinical image, which is very similar to what we know in the case of flu. The typical symptoms are fever and cough. Those are also the typical symptoms of flu. There are also variations. It can be much milder and there can also be serious complications with severe pneumonia. That too is something we see in the flu. So the image is very similar. Does this mean we shouldn't be worried? No, because there are a number of important differences. We do not currently have any antiviral medicines that have been proven to work. Nor is there a vaccine, which may take a while. No one in the population is immune to that virus. That means there's an open field for this virus. That's different from the flu. In that sense, the potential for spreading is greater. Is it more contagious or less contagious than the flu? That is too early to say, but the fact is that the field is open: there is no immunity and there are no vaccines. That's a big difference. That's why we need to be careful. That is why we have taken into account the worst case scenarios in our calculations and plans, which we believe and hope will not happen. We have not worked, such as a number of calculations in the press, with all kinds of mathematical detours, with certain numbers being put into formulas, those numbers are already uncertain in themselves, and what comes out is even more uncertain. We have actually just looked at the facts. What's the worst case scenario? Suppose in Belgium krek would be the same as in Wuhan and Hubei province, what does that mean? In the last nine weeks, since the outbreak at the end of December, 67,000 cases have been diagnosed in Hubei. Of these, about 15% have severe symptoms and about 5% are in critical condition. 2,600 to 2,700 people died from it. They weren't prepared there. At first they didn't know what was coming at them. They have therefore reacted a little too slowly from the outset. They were shot firmly in action after a few weeks, when they realized that this really needed attention. That is the difference; we are now prepared for what is coming to us. Suppose what happened in Hubei also happens in Belgium. Hubei has about 58.5 million inhabitants, we have 11.4 million. So we can easily convert that. In the worst case scenario, we can expect 13,000 diagnosed cases in nine weeks, of which 2 to 3,000 people have to be hospitalized. 5 % of critical cases means that about 700 people could end up in intensive care. That's our worst case scenario. When you look at these figures, you see that this is in the order of magnitude of what can cause a severe flu epidemic. A heavy seasonal flu can do this, too. We have had seasons in the past with figures in the same order of magnitude as what we have calculated here. The capacity in the hospitals is then fully addressed, we know that. A peak of the corona virus and flu virus at the same time would have been a potential problem. That would have brought with it a serious burden. We have two windfalls. On the one hand, we have never had such a mild flu season in the ten years I have been following the problem. That's pure luck. The flu is really merciful to us this year. On the other hand, by working on it for a number of weeks, we have managed to postpone the introduction of the corona virus. We are now receiving the first cases, and fortunately all of them have an import history. We do not yet have any proof that there is also circulation on Belgian territory. Of course, it is not excluded that this will happen, we cannot guarantee that this will not happen. However, delays and delays in dissemination are crucial in this respect. What is important to bet on in the fight against this virus? We have to look at the groups at risk, and the Chinese have given us very good studies on this. They have published a very comprehensive paper on their first over 70,000 cases describing the clinic, the complications and the ages. A clear pattern emerges: the older one is, the more risky the infection and the greater the risk of complication and mortality. If an 80-year-old ends up in the hospital with the corona virus, he has a 15 percent chance that he will never leave the hospital again. That is high, but is again perfectly comparable to what we see in the flu. An 80-year-old with flu admitted to hospital also has a 15% chance that he will not leave the hospital. In that sense that is similar. We must make a real effort to protect the elderly and the people with chronic diseases in our society. That's a collective responsibility. Testing can be a tool, but whether someone is being tested or not, this doesn't change the key message: if people are sick, they should stay at home and shouldn't have contact with others, especially with people with fragile health or with the elderly. Whether it's a corona virus or a flu virus, this doesn't change anything. I'm a scientist, so for me, measuring is knowing. The transmission of the virus is mainly carried out by two main routes. The first way of spreading are drops that we spit out while talking, sneezing or coughing and then they can end up on someone who sits right in front of you, usually within 1 to 1.5 meters, because they don't get much further. But perhaps even more important are the hands: we constantly touch surfaces, buttons, sounds, in public transport, at work, and those surfaces may be contaminated with those same drops. With our hands we then touch our face and that is probably the most important way in which we infect ourselves. Regular washing of hands with soap and water is therefore a very important recommendation. Do not touch the face with the hands is also important. Masks aren't going to change that much in themselves. They can even be a risk, because one has to put them on the face, one has to pull them out and one has to take them off the face. If people do not think about washing or disinfecting their hands, they are going to infect themselves again at that very moment. On Google Images are Asians wearing masks. You should be careful how many people are frunk on such photos on their masks. That's not helping. Such masks are therefore a waste and would be better reserved for the health sector, where they are really needed. As far as the antiseptic gels are concerned, washing with soap and water is one of the best ways to get the hands clean and make virus free. After all, that has a double effect. It cleanses the hands and also kills the virus. After all, that virus is very fragile and therefore very easy to break with soap or detergents. Most disinfectants and alcohol will kill it. So washing is very efficient. An alcohol gel can be useful if someone does not have access to soap and water. An alcohol gel will only work well when the hands are clean. For example, when there is mucus of the nose on the hand, the alcohol gels are much less effective and less effective than just washing with soap and water. My final point concerns the risk groups. The minister had considered giving something about the children as well. The Chinese studies show very well that no fatalities have been reported in the more than 70,000 cases among children under nine years of age. They can probably and most probably be infected, but are quite resistant to the disease, which is good. We really need to look at the other end of the spectrum. It is therefore very important that we have good procedures for residential care centres and rest homes to keep the virus out of it. That is, of course, the responsibility of the Communities, but we will assist them in that. We will soon be working on identifying what has already happened and what may happen in addition. After all, we really need to focus our attention on protecting this group of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I assume you believe Professor Van Gucht more than I do. So I'm gonna get him on a regular basis. Mrs Creemers also mentioned the European chapter. Last week I had a planned appointment with the European Commissioner, Stella Kyriakides, in connection with her general policy plan for the coming years. However, we have made it a corona meeting. It has a coordinating role and would like us and the various Member States to build more conformity into the various measures. Unfortunately, we have different organisational models for our health, whatever she agrees with. One Member State is already a bit better in hospital than the other. The primary care system is also organized very differently. The Länder can indeed take other initiatives. She can't forbid that. She has no control over that. It is trying to coordinate and will therefore discuss other issues on Friday and argue for collegiality between Member States. Other meetings have already taken place on this subject. Is it useful to close borders between European Member States? No, a virus doesn't respect national borders or municipal boundaries. I will reply to Mr Maingain's letter. Nor does the virus respect borders at sea or between continents. The Commissioner is still asking for trade and travel to be allowed between Member States. Mr Prévot, it is not the number of cases that is decisive for entering phase 2. We entered phase 2 very quickly because there was once again a case in our country. After the patient from China, Mr. Soubry, there were no cases for weeks. We wanted to enter phase 2 because it also allows us to have more consultation, more meetings. Otherwise, we could still wait. In any case, this does not depend on the number of cases. We're in the containment phase right now. The spread of the virus must be diluted. We need to make sure the patients are as low as possible infecting other people. The kern that was organized wasn't really in an emergency. A kern was planned, but we changed the agenda to devote it to coronavirus. As far as the Interministerial Conference is concerned, in response to Mr Prévot, when we want to work legally and officially, I no longer have the power to be in the Interministerial Conference, because I am in day-to-day business. Nevertheless, we have had preparatory meetings at the administrative level. We know each other. We had contacts with colleagues in the Regions who have full competence. That is why we agreed at an interdepartmental conference, but that was not exactly what was planned. For this we have precisely composed the Risk Management Group, also together with the Länder, which also includes the Cabinets and Administrations. You said that, compared to us, France was fifteen days ahead of the spread. I don't know if that's good news. As I explained, the fact that we were able to wait another two weeks before we had a new patient allowed us to get away from the winter flu. Every day we've won, every week we've won is a positive thing. We may have fewer patients because we started later. I think the course will be the same as in the other countries, with an exponential increase at the beginning, according to the known curve. We will, of course, work to avoid the spread. There's gonna be a spike and then the number of infections will fade out. Eighty-sixty-six are at risk and our ageing population is generally a difficult issue. Among younger people, people with more comorbidity are a concern. Especially people with cardiovascular diseases are more fragile, which we also know from China. We have already learned a lot from the Chinese. Preventing the spread is a matter, preventing people from dying is another matter. We cannot rule that out here. We do everything we can to obtain the best possible results for carriers of the virus during and after their infection. As I have already said, the measures taken are based on science and evidence-based and on the recommendations of the Scientific Committee. We know that in the other Member States and now also in a commune, initiatives based on emotion are being taken. I have nothing against emotion. We have a lot of empathy for those looking for potential measures, but – as I am not the only one saying, the WHO and the European Commissioner also say – the measures must always be proportional and must help to prevent the virus from contaminating other people. There is absolutely no point in taking measures that disturb people's daily lives if they have no effect. We must therefore consider the impact of the measure and its impact on public health. In response to Mr Prévot's question, the Chairman of the Risk Management Committee asked Luxembourg, via the Early Warning and Response System, to trace the Luxembourg patient and interview him and then contact AViQ. If a contact is needed for foreign patients in our country or for our patients abroad, this will be done through the earlywarning response system. That's how the right people get in touch with each other. Mr Van Gucht will answer the questions about the swabs, as well as another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u30	I have three more points to answer: the swabs, the decentralised testing and the treatment with antiviral medicines. As far as the swabs are concerned, I have checked with, among others, Mr Van Ranst and others. We do not really have any indication that there would be a major problem with the swabs for steel extraction. It doesn't have to be the E-swab. A lot of alternatives are possible. The most important thing is the place where the steel is taken, namely enough deep in the nose, to be really sensitive. We did not get a message from COPAN that there would be a problem with the delivery. We verified that yesterday. As far as the medium is concerned, that's not a big issue either, because the test is a molecular test. So we don't have to get a live virus. We're tracking down the genetic material from the virus. There's no need for antibiotics in that medium. The universal transport medium contains antibiotics to inhibit bacterial growth, so that one can put the medium on cells to grow the virus, but that is not so important here. We will usually be able to work well with a swab that is sufficiently deep in the nose. It is much more the place of the decline that is important than the brand or type of swab. The medium does not play a major role here either. The tests are now full of evolution. We are clearly evolving towards a situation in which we are starting to test in a decentralised way. Not only the reference lab in Leuven will test. A number of large university laboratories already have the test and are implementing it or will soon implement it. A scaling-up to many other laboratories is also possible. That's not so difficult technically. I think that's what people are doing. It is an important principle that, if there is a positive test in one of the peripheral laboratories, the steel is still sent to Leuven so that a confirmation is obtained from the reference laboratory. That's a lot going on right now. The test capacity is being increased and in itself was not really a problem in the past. In Leuven they had some capacity. However, this could speed things up a bit. As far as treatment is concerned, we still have to wait for the results of the clinical trials that are taking place in China. In China, the majority of patients still have clinical trials in place, including with remdesivir, which is probably one of the most promising candidates. Chlorquine and Kaletra are also tested as well as a whole host of other molecules. At the moment, however, we have still not received convincing results that indicate that these things work better than placebo. We hope that the first results will come in sometime in April. Many of these molecules, for example chloroquine, have a certain efficacy in the laboratory, in cell cultures in mice. It is not at all certain that they will have beneficial effects or provide added value for people. Chloroquine is not on the market in Belgium but to a very limited extent in the Netherlands, for a very specific application in a small group of patients. In itself, this company can easily scale up production but it's actually a little early because we need to see evidence of the clinical studies first. After all, we know very well that, especially in the case of antivirals, things that work well in experimental conditions are likely to fail under real conditions. Remdesivir is available on its own through a compassionate use program. Contacts with the firm have already been established a few weeks ago and we can therefore use it in Belgium within that framework. There are now, of course, many countries with cases of disease that will now want to claim the relatively limited remdesivirstocks. So far this has been a purely experimental medicine and the stock is limited. I'm guessing the company's scaling up production by now. In se it can be used but availability depends on the company's stocks. They'll only release that on indication if we have a patient who needs the medicine. They're not just shipping supplies to Belgium in advance. Those were the three points I wanted to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u31	Mr Prévot, as far as the reference hospitals are concerned, from a historical point of view, Saint-Pierre was first specialized in tuberculosis and other infectious diseases. With the last Ebola crisis, the UZA was added because there was a direct link with the Institute of Tropical Medicine. We also have contacts with hospitals in Wallonia. For the moment, we have more contact with the University Hospital in Liège. Hospitals have the capacity to treat patients, but not all have negative pressure chambers or isolation blocks. There may need to be some adjustments in the future. Mrs Sneppe, the worst case scenario has already been explained here. I think it's a realistic scenario that was investigated by our people. As far as breathing equipment and the question of the WHO are concerned, you should know that the WHO also contacts other countries, which have a very different system of their health system and where basic care is sometimes not yet available. Nevertheless, we have taken this question seriously. This afternoon, Dr. Erika Vlieghe will take stock of the availability of breathing equipment in our country. Then there is the question of Mr Creyelman who we should believe. I have surrounded myself with many scientists with a great deal of knowledge in this area, precisely because one often does not believe a competent minister. Why is there no clear information? There is freedom of speech in our country. You just have to look at the number of open letters each minister receives, the number of opinions of scientists and now economists, the number of tweets from every angle. We have freedom of speech. Even if that is sometimes difficult, even if the information that is being shared refers to Chernobyl, which I do not find so pleasant, I think it should remain a free country for me and that freedom of expression should remain. That therefore gives me the opportunity to react and to fulminate myself. Those are the benefits of the situation. Can we make the communication uniform? The country where the information was fairly uniform is China, but that is not the model of communication I want to follow right now, and I would be surprised if you wanted to. Mrs Fonck, the data from China for children are more or less reassuring. For older and immunocompromised people, the news is less good. We do not have data on cases of pregnant women. We asked China for them, still without results. It would be surprising that with so many infected patients, there is no data on pregnant women. Measures have certainly been taken by the Communities in nursing homes. We will help them to make these measures more effective. One big point is for sure: if you are ill, stay home! Don't visit anyone. Especially if you are ill, don't think about visiting your mother or grandmother, despite your illness. Stay in your vomit! Seriously, stay home! Keep children who are sick and want to go to school at home. That's really so important, every year with the flu or other things that happen to us. Stay home when you're sick. As a general practitioner, I went to visit a sick person who said: "I was sick yesterday, too, but I didn't let you come, because I went to my cousin who just had surgery first." I thought, "Stay out of a hospital if you're sick." Those are really essential things that must still be repeated. When people come to visit you, even though they were very sick before that... turn them outside! I used to tell people to throw them out when you see someone with a brat. We need to use some common sense in that. Then there is the aide à domicile and the site of Sciensano. I still recommend to look at the site, it is customized every day. For the general public there is info-coronavirus.be in four languages. Madame Jadin n'est plus là, but we have made it especially in the three national languages and in English, because we have many foreigners here, in Brussels alone with the European institutions. Yesterday I received European Commissioner Hahn, responsible for the European institutions. He had some questions about their staff and residents. So they too are working on this. As far as workplaces are concerned, measures may be envisaged. These are mainly hygienic measures as taken for Batibouw. There is also a book fair planned in Thurn and Taxis. We have also been in contact with the founders about the measures that can be taken. As far as entrepreneurs and self-employed people are concerned, Ms Muylle has created a website that addresses all the problems that can be encountered in the field. When someone falls ill at work, it is obviously necessary to evacuate him as quickly as possible from the workplace and examine him. Mrs. Jadin asked for a hotline in German. We will try to put this in place but it is not obvious to find here German-speaking people or who have sufficient knowledge of the German language. I'm not. The website of Health about the coronavirus is completely in German. As for the Belgians who are still confined to a hotel in Tenerife, Foreign Affairs are in contact with the Spanish authorities. That is also a regional competence. This does not affect the situation, but contacts have been delayed. We have only been able to bring our people back from China because we promised to respect the quarantine. That was really the condition, otherwise they had to stay there during the full 14 days. The Spanish are also formal: no one is allowed to leave the hotel. We don't think this is the best way to treat patients. Mr Van Gucht will explain this a little more. He has said, among other things, as a result of the cruise ship on which people were held together, that this really is the worst thing that can be done. In Tenerife the situation is not so bad, but on the ship it was something completely different: 36 percent of positive cases were stopped there, but if they had sailed a little further, 100 percent would have been achieved. So that's not a good way: with air conditioning, so many thousands of people on a boat who can't keep a foot and a half from each other, also a lack of hygienic material and so on. We are doing our best to get our countrymen out of Tenerife, but we cannot go beyond the Spanish authorities at the moment and they are in quarantine. Mrs Farih, we will be in phase 2 for as long as possible, because that is the stage in which we are preventing the virus from expanding. That is not a question of the number of people, for example three people out of the five of yesterday came from one family. They are not sick either and have opted for home quarantine. The parameters for this are the ability to go into quarantine at home, both in terms of health and organisation. For example, this is easier for a family living in a house than for someone living in a house with other people or unable to take care of themselves or who is too sick to go into quarantine at home. So that's always a good view. We will move to phase 3, mitigation, when the virus is no longer divisible and it is spread everywhere. At that time, other measures can indeed be taken, I do say 'can', not 'd'office should be taken' because one is in phase 3. The advice of the Risk Management Group will then be used to see if something should be cancelled or if events can continue and it doesn't matter much. Mrs Merckx, you're in practice. I remember from a few flu epidemics that this is hard, long and a lot of work for a GP. As far as the labs are concerned, your practice has worked well. The labs are connected to the reference lab and a well-functioning lab is very important for a general practitioner, because it also gives him the necessary material, such as swabs and everything that is needed to do his job. However, it also provides a lot of information, because labs also have scientists in their homes. I remember asking to speak to them a number of times. The distribution of competences between the different levels of power does not facilitate work. Let's hope we learn from it. It is not easy to manage such an epidemic. But, among all ministers, the will is there. That's very positive. Cooperating, with all our skills and responsibilities in such a situation, to help patients in our country as much as possible is a challenge. Mr De Caluwe, this certainly has an impact on our lives, on our travels, on our functioning. The economic impact after that will take much longer, I'm afraid. We see the stock market is in all states. That's always a harbinger, but it recovers when one sees that it's a virus. The criticals are the risk factors for the infection of the environment and the severity of the disease. Do people live alone, in a cohousing, on a barn? These are matters that need to be evaluated. We advise people to call the GP first. That should be the first point of contact. The medication and the masks have already been discussed. The EU supports the WTO, but it is important to know that budget liberalisation is not easy. It'll take some time. I am reassured that the Minister for the Budget, Mr Clarinval, has already said today that it will cost what it costs. This is for the health of our citizens. We know this will cost money. That's gonna have to be paid for. I was very pleased that the Minister for the Budget has already said that we will have to find the money for this. That is what we must do for our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u32	Madam Secretary, do you have an idea of the amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u33	That depends on how exponential this develops. Yesterday, hundreds of tests took place. Five patients came out of that. There will be hundreds of tests again today. We do not know how quickly this will develop. Will there be five patients, or 20 or 50? Look at Italy. On Friday there were three infected people, on Monday 129 and already more than 2 000. This is going exponentially, so this can go very fast. The cost will depend on how many patients we get here. Let's hope it's okay, but I wouldn't dare take poison on that. Ms. Fonck mentioned a lack of coordination. As I said, there are different levels of power. The Regions have their powers and responsibilities. It is the special law that is decisive. We cannot interpret the law freely or throw it over our shoulders; we have to work with it and we do so. I have already spoken about vulnerable people. There was a question about next week's EPSCO meeting. Previously, the question of how we could help the Member States with very fragile basic health care, which will not be able to stop the spread of the virus, was a key issue. It's the State Department that issues the travel advice. We must build on that. Foreign Affairs provides appropriate advice on risk zones. Yesterday there was an adjustment for the ski slopes in northern Italy. Mrs Safai, I have three powers and two of them are on fire. At 2 p.m., I will start a debate on asylum and migration. I have also taken measures in my department of Asylum and Migration, because I know from my other authority that there are a lot of people together who come from different countries, which can lead to dangerous situations. Therefore, a decision tree was drawn up with the cooperation of and on the advice of the Risk Management Group. Asylum seekers undergo a TB screening. There are interpreters present. Now, that is the time to ask the people concerned on what route they came here and whether they have been in contact with sick people. Then their temperature can also be measured. If they have come from a risk area and feel sick, they need to be put a little separately and specially followed. We've made a whole decision-making tree. We have also taken more hygienic measures than usual in the centres. Let us hope for a good outcome, because it really would not work if there were an outbreak of the virus in large centres. However, the opportunity is real. There are asylum seekers from Iran and from areas at risk. A kind of task force has been set up, in cooperation with the partners, such as the Red Cross, who also have some knowledge in this area, to take the measures that we can take in advance, and to reduce the possible infection with the virus. We are doing some sort of screening with the newcomers, which is very limited, but could still be useful. I have three departments and two are on fire. I hope that there will not be a major event in the area of social affairs. Mr Bertels, it seems as if you have insider knowledge, I see you laughing. If you have a match, wait a few weeks to light the fire, otherwise you may need a minister who needs medical care and quarantine. Mr President, I think I have answered most of the questions. We still have to talk about the vaccines.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u34	Mr President, there was also a question about vaccines. Various research groups worldwide are developing vaccines, including a group in Leuven at the Rega Institute, a research group of Johan Neyts. These groups have very high-performance technology to develop vaccines against new viruses very quickly. They are also making great progress. The problem will also be there, as with antiviral medicines, that the development of the vaccine in the lab can go fast, that testing on mice can also go fast, but that ultimately its use on humans will also have to be proven. Safety will not be too bad, but it will also have to be proven that the vaccine actually provides protection. Those are things that take time. A vaccine seems unlikely to me for the first year. Maybe it will be possible in the course of 2021, but for the outbreak that we now know and which we will know even more in the coming weeks and months, it will, I fear, be too late anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u35	Professor Van Gucht and Madam Secretary, thank you both. In principle, there is still time for a reply, but I know that the Minister has stayed longer, for which I thank her, and that she must leave. I see, however, that a Member is putting his hand in the air on the N-VA banks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u36	Mr President, Minister, I will be very brief. We know that screening must at present be more than merely asking the patient questions, since the first days of the disease no patient even knows that he is ill. However, he is a carrier of the virus. Another important aspect is the following. I'm a dentist myself. I have a very big problem. There are no masks on the market. N95 masks are the masks that we dentists have to use to stay healthy and work through, without getting sick or passing the disease on to the next patient. We're very close. My other colleagues have already asked the question about masks. That's why I didn't ask them. In my opinion, however, these masks are absolutely important. Now there are no masks on the market. I wonder when you ordered the masks. The disease has been spreading for two months. We had to have ordered the masks from the beginning. At present, however, this is becoming more and more difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u37	Mr President, Mrs Safai, we first looked on the market. However, the market was already disturbed, as the crisis in China started much earlier. That is also why I did not respond to China's request for masks to be sent, which did not seem very collegial at the time, but was far-sighted. After all, I was of the opinion that it was a virus that would travel the world. Moreover, we should not send masks to China, since China itself is the largest producer. The market mechanism has been disrupted on two sides. We immediately searched for mouth masks. However, this problem exists in all countries. We will therefore continue to work on two tracks. First of all, we are trying to deal with small quantities that are still popping up here and there, although at very high prices. I suspect that the price is also a bit increased, because in the past mouth masks were sold per box and now each. This also applies to sales via webshops. The second track is that we immediately registered in the joint procurement. Next Friday we will find out how quickly that delivery can take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u38	Allow me to add further information on surgical masks. We look at the slopes to see if it is possible to produce such masks from textiles. Reusable masks can be autoclaved or washed at high temperature. Some firms that can produce this can ask for specifications. That's what we're doing. In the short term, however, we cannot guarantee that these surgical masks can be produced and will be effective. We're following that closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u39	Madam Secretary, Professor Van Gucht, thank you for your answers. As far as the disaster centre is concerned, I can only say that the word is what it is. With 13 patients, I don't think we're dealing with a calamity, but I'd like to leave the balloon on so we can think about the idea. In previous situations, it has also been suggested that such a centre should be set up so that the experience we are now gaining and the cooperation between the various services can be maintained. A disaster centre can therefore start immediately if there is a new epidemic, but can also be used, for example, after attacks or a serious accident, so that a rapid response can be made. That's what I'm really about. With regard to the mouth masks, I understand that the smallness of our country is a problem, which means that we do not stand in front of the queue for the supply of mouth masks. However, we know that our country is small. The more we had to be prepared for such situations. That too is part of a plan that should be ready. There should have been an emergency supply, just because our country is small. I also hear it's pure luck that the flu epidemic, the seasonal flu, is now over. For the same reason, next time this is not the case and so we have more bad luck. In all cases, we must be prepared for the worst case scenario, even though, of course, I hope it will not happen this time. I also hear you say that the healthcare providers can read this on the website. Just now I went to look at the website of Sciensano. Maybe it's because the documents with information for dentists and pharmacists have recently been renewed, but I can't find them anymore. So we need to get a good look at that. Apparently, the information was taken away, probably by accident. As far as the mouth masks are concerned, actively communicate about it to dentists. Then they will know where they stand. My colleague and I are getting this information now, but no other dentist got it. I would certainly appreciate it if this could be clarified, both for the dentists and for the patients. With regard to home quarantine, I have not received a clear answer to the question whether it is enforceable. Who's responsible for that? In the Netherlands, the legislation allows the government to enforce the home quarantine. Is that also the case in our country? It has also been mentioned that, following the SARS epidemic, some work has been done on vaccines and medication. All this work has been stopped as soon as funding stopped when the epidemic resolved itself. Now I wonder whether this is also a piste to walk, namely that there will be further work on possible future epidemics between epidemics. That way it can be picked up much faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u40	Madam Secretary, you mentioned keeping your head cool. I'll stay in the drama with a quote from Shakespeare: better three hours early than one minute late. This is certainly true in the area of public health. Let us take this seriously. My colleague mentioned the masks, but I would like to repeat one thing: what has been ordered has not yet been delivered. So we're not ready yet. I expect the mouth masks, and I hope that our little country won't bother us. You have referred to regional powers a few times. In that respect, we are in complete agreement. Losing time in structures is very unfortunate for our patients. So give us one Flemish public health and then we should stop organizing all these consultation committees. We can work for our patients then. As far as testing capacity is concerned, it is a good thing that you are going to spread it. That one case I was talking about had nothing to do with the hospitals. The point was that a sample collected from a GP had to be picked up in a Gents lab while it could not be retrieved quickly from Leuven. Professor Van Gucht, you say it's a new virus. Of course, we're in an experimental phase with regard to medication. In China clinical studies are being conducted with chloroquine. We already have experience in the peroral administration of chloroquine. If there are patients we absolutely need to help, then I think it makes sense that we use chloroquine. You say that we are not in a position to negotiate on this, but in fact we already know that the treatment with this medication is on the way, so taking preventive measures to see if we are going to get chloroquine and antivirals is really not an unnecessary luxury. As far as the swabs are concerned, there are indeed different opinions. That too will have to do with the fact that it is a new virus. For molecular diagnostics the viruses do not need to be alive, but are we doing all right, are we doing the best we can? I have not received an absolute yes to that question from any virologist. We assume that we are doing well, but we cannot call it optimally. I still find it odd that the WHO does not recommend that medium, but that is a very technical discussion. I really hope the swabs and the medium are the optimal way. Madam Minister, you yourself said that everything depends on where the steel is taken, but there is no virologist at the moment, who can prove to me at 100% that the steel is taken in the right place with E-swabs. You say that the doctors do not need to use the E-swab, but as a general practitioner in East or West Flanders one gets the E-swab, yet if one works with a particular lab, and then one does not have the choice to use an S-swab, which is finer and goes deeper into the nose. Finally, I am very pleased that you have brought experts with you. Of course I believe them. They're working on it on a daily basis. I would like to quote Mr Van Gucht again: 'We must be careful'. I hope that we are all careful, that we all do our job for our patients and for our caregivers and that we get the best out of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u41	Madam Secretary, I am glad that your mental health benefits from once in a while being able to fulminate against people who spread a form of fake news related to the virus, but I will correct myself with regard to my little communication question. I'm not saying that you communicated "wrong," but that you did it "in a bad way." You have spread the information in a twentieth-century way. You did pull communication: people need to look up the information, they need to browse a website, they need to get information from someone. You will not be surprised when I say that there is such a thing as social media in this twenty-first century. If you like, I can provide you with a few specialists who can better manage communication in this area. The problem was that many people hadn't been informed and hadn't looked up any information, after which it kind of happened to them on social media. In this way, there has been a lot of disinformation. I think you will have a second chance, because in the beginning you told Mr Sneppe that there were 13 infections instead of 15. Meanwhile, there's a school in Tienen with two infections.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u42	First of all, everyone here is asking for coherent communication about the number of cases. We only communicate about proven and controlled cases. When it comes to someone in quarantine in a school, it may be that the infection is confirmed, but that could also be a blank. You're just making a bid here, but that's not how we work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u43	Madam Secretary, it's not my point, whether it was 13 or 15. That's what I said earlier. They now report live, via HLN for what it's worth, a case in Tienen in a school. Now it's up to you to communicate proactively and to do communication push instead of getting people to do communication pull. That is what I wanted to say, I absolutely did not want to address you about whether there are 13, 14, 15 or even 12 cases if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u44	It was all about other things. As far as social media is concerned, both myself and Mr Van Gucht and Mr Van Ranst were present in the media. We also work via Twitter and Facebook. We even have a contract with Twitter to be able to respond very quickly to fake news, in which we are shown very prominently. I also wrote the VRT and RTBF, including the French-speaking media, and LN 24. I asked them to help us with the messages to the people, because a lot of people get their information off TV. It doesn't always have to be Netflix that message about weird epidemics. Those companies are willing to help us with what remains to be communicated in the next few weeks, which I very much appreciate. They do that for free, as a service to the people. I'm gonna have to pay them a lot of visits before that, but I'm gonna take that. I think we are doing all we can in this respect. I do not know how Mrs Gijbels, who is no longer there, searches the website of Sciensano, but we even find the dentists and all the advice on the regular iPhone. Maybe she should switch phones or computers. The question was asked by Mrs Depoorter whether quarantine is enforceable. The mayor has to make a decision on the notification of the regional health inspection. He must let the provincial government, the governor, know the motivation to take that measure. That's the established procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u45	It was Mrs Gijbel's question. I think the question was whether the general practitioner could impose quarantine?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u46	No, it's the county health inspector who's in charge and who's bringing in the mayor to enforce the quarantine.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u47	Mr. Chair, I will respond in telegraphic style to the Minister's various responses. I would like to return to the front line support. Reference is made to each other's skills, but it remains essential to support the first line. These actors are important in managing a crisis. They can help to reduce congestion problems to emergencies, if these actors are properly equipped. I will not go back to the controversy over the communication, minister. I think it didn't cost much to systematically send an up-to-date email to all general practitioners and hospitals, containing the right information. I know the website exists, but with the feedback we have, we realize that not everyone has the reflex to visit Sciensano's website to get this information. This contributes to artistic blur. As far as mask purchases are concerned, I understand that on Friday you will find out about the deadline, which will be up to 40 days. You'll see if we can reduce it. You may have other leads to order via a second track, to repeat your remarks. You talked about a multi-phase delivery. What about these phases? I understand that the Member States cannot communicate on the number of masks or on their model, but according to a fresh dispatch of a few minutes, your French counterpart, Olivier Véran, the French Minister of Health, reported that he had ordered 15 to 20 million masks that would arrive soon and would be distributed in pharmacies. We ask for masks to distribute them where we need them: in hospitals, in general practitioners. With regard to the Worst-case scenario, I hear that we are considering the worst. It's healthy. To rule is to anticipate. But I have not heard any proposals for operational avenues in relation to this. There's another dispatch while I'm at it. This never makes you smile, but the French government has also decided to increase the resources of hospitals. It has decided to grant an additional €260 million to hospitals. Funding will also have to be worked on. You did not answer about the use of masks. Many practitioners have returned to me and my group in the last few days, asking for radio spots, and certainly television spots, to explain how to wear these masks correctly. I think we could even extend them to hand washing, which must be optimal and which is obviously not always optimal. You said that the Chairman of the Risk Committee had asked to trace the Luxembourg patient and then to contact the Walloon Agency for a Quality Life (AViQ). There must also be a real traceability policy. Madam Minister, apparently you are only partially listening to what I am saying!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u48	No, you're saying there's a need for a traceability methodology. It's done!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u49	I said that there is a need to continue to have a coherent traceability policy. At the testing level, the professor said earlier that other laboratories could perform tests in the near future. What does it mean in the near future? With the peak anticipated for the coming days and weeks, it can be tomorrow. At the reference hospital level, you recalled Saint-Pierre and Antwerp. Other avenues are being considered, but this does not answer my question as to whether you intend to designate one referral hospital per province. Is it now certain that we are able to accommodate patients in the event of an epidemiologic peak? Are there enough beds available to accommodate this type of patient with all the measures to be taken (containment, protocol to be followed)? I received information while you were answering questions, minister. Clearly, AViQ recontacted all hospitals to ask them to complete and submit a questionnaire on the status of their operational plan. The deadline was officially Friday. They have apparently been asked to return it today afternoon, proof that we are not ready at all levels to deal with the crisis as a whole. These are the elements that I wanted to add to my initial statement, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u50	Mr Prévot, first of all, I said that in every hospital there is an emergency plan that always includes a pandemic component. This is known to hospitals in their current procedures and plans. What was asked by the AViQ is something else.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u51	In fact, hospital contingency plans, both the external emergency plan for events outside the hospital and the internal emergency plan for events within the hospital, are a standard for being approved as a hospital. Accreditation is the competence of the federated entities. In the programming-approval-financing triad of hospitals, programming and funding remain federal, while accreditation is the responsibility of the Communities and Regions. It is therefore normal for the AViQ to have interviewed the hospitals. Similarly, monitoring and auditing of compliance with the standard is the responsibility and authority of the federated entities. As the minister just mentioned, every hospital has an emergency plan. You can check the outline on the FPS Public Health website, as it has a link to emergency medical assistance and other aspects of good hospital functioning. It is imperative that the plan include an explicit "pandemia" component. This is why generic procedures have been established for a long time. This illustrates how aware we are of the importance of preparation, the translation of which is found in the above-mentioned outline. The "pandemia" plan, which may vary depending on the hospitals, thus provides for the possibility of releasing a wing in order to increase the capacity in beds. I hope I've been able to give you some clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u52	Your answer confirms what I said in my first intervention, and then in my reply: not all hospitals are clearly ready, since not all emergency plans have yet been approved and approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u53	With regard to contingency plans, we asked in 2015 to update them, and again in 2018. The situation in hospitals has not changed much since the end of 2018. I have already asked twice for an update: in 2015, after the attacks in Paris, and in 2018, following changes in hospitals. It is not true that these are plans of the 1960s.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u54	I didn't say they were from the '60s. I simply said that obviously not all emergency plans are approved. This questionnaire sent by the AViQ with Friday for deadline (but the deadline has been revised) raises questions, in the context and the climate in which we are. I think that I am one of the very moderate in terms of interventions, saying that obviously we must not dramatize. But I am also one of those who want clear information and coordination of actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u55	I propose to close the incident.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u56	It is the competence of the federated entities. I advise you to give the information to your colleagues in the regional parliaments. For my part, we have made everything up to date. If hospitals are not in order, regional parliaments must be asked to take action.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u57	Mrs Sneppe, Mrs Jiroflée and Mrs Taquin will be speaking because we are about to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u58	Mr. Prévot, did you hear that? Because it's your colleague, who's competent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u59	I have been very correct, but at some point, to update and adopt this type of plan, clear information must come from the federal government. I just didn't play that game, minister. So don't worry about it, I didn't play that game! What I asked from the beginning is to have coordination with all the...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u60	You insinuated that emergency plans are not ready in hospitals. On two occasions, however, I asked to update them. This subject falls within my competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u61	And your skill is also to give clear information about a crisis like this and this information can only come from your person.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u62	Mr. Prévot, can we just stick to that? I think points have been scored on both sides. Everyone was able to say what they had to say on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u63	Madam Minister, the comparison with the common seasonal flu virus was made several times here, but what we read shows that the corona virus is much more harmful and contagious than the flu virus. It is therefore a good thing that the finger is held on the wrist so that all registers can be opened if necessary. It is also important for our primary caregivers to be well equipped with protective equipment, because if they fail, the situation will be even worse than it is today. I would also like to join Mr Creyelman. Communication is perhaps the most important aspect of this crisis: good, uniform and clear communication, both in the care sector and in the street, which is also concerned and eager to get answers to his questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u64	As I said earlier, I welcome the work that is being done in crisis management. The coordination is good. I believe that any question asked today has its usefulness to be able to adjust what deserves to be so in order to perfect the action in this emergency situation to be managed for our citizens and healthcare staff. The question of the contingency plan for hospitals deserves to be asked. The minister pointed out that she had done what was necessary at her level and that if hospitals were not in order, the work had to be done at another level. It was important to raise this issue so that, in the end, they were all in good standing and ready to take on a crisis situation. I have a few important questions which I do not think have been answered. Professor, from what point in time and until when is a person who has contracted coronavirus contagious? Do we stick to the 14 days initially recommended? How does the supervision of the patient take place during isolation at home? How is follow-up ensured? Is the general practitioner responsible for home follow-up? You had to explain the test that the patient was undergoing before he came out. Minister, what is your return from general practitioners and pharmacists? Do they ask for specific support, if yes: which one? Do they receive the necessary equipment to treat without themselves contracting the virus? I did not have the exact answer to that question. I would also like you to clarify the usefulness of the anti-virus masks, the respiratory protections FFP1, FFP2 and FFP3. Can you describe what is suitable for professionals or what is more suitable for the population if necessary? It is important to have these answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u65	Before giving the floor to Mrs Jiroflée, I should like to point out that the resumption of the Committee's work is delayed until 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u66	Mr President, I should like to point out that I must be present in the Committee on the Interior at 2.15 p.m. and that I would like to have a break to wash my hands! [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u67	Mr President, all I wanted to do was to thank the people behind the tables, especially Professor Van Gucht and his colleagues, for the many extra work they have done over the past few weeks and for the answers they have given.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u68	Regarding the duration of a patient's infectivity, we do not yet have sufficient data to know the duration of the virus excretion. Based on what is known about influenza, it is estimated that a patient can be infectious from one day before symptoms begin. The patient will probably excrete the virus for a week. The duration of a quarantine will therefore be minimum the duration during which a patient is symptomatic and will also be based on test results. We are still waiting for the virus excretion curve in the scientific literature. We will certainly learn more with the first patients we will follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u69	We're gonna stay there. We will resume our agenda at 2.30 p.m. A little lunch break might be a good idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u70	Mr President, I would just like to make a request. If we did not get all the answers to our questions, could the firm quickly forward them to the commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u71	Yes, but what questions have you not yet had an answer to?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u72	I quoted them, but I didn't get an answer, unless I missed something.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u73	In part, yes, on the (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u74	I understand, given the timing – it's already 2:00 p.m. Given the situation, I think it's better to get you back to work than to spend the day with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic121x.u75	I should be in a video conference with the WHO right now.
