ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u1	Good morning to everyone, I hope you hear me for this somewhat special session. I will remind you of a few criteria that have been defined and sent to you by e-mail. They will allow us to be effective. We have three debates involving two ministers and no less than 130 questions. We really need to be strict about timing. Let me remind you that every questionr has a two-minute speaking time. Anyone who has tabled two or more questions has a three-minute speaking time. Members are reminded that they may refer to the written text of their oral question, which will then be included in the minutes of the meeting. The author of several questions asks them all at the same time. We will follow the agenda, but I would point out that when you are quoted, you must mention all your other issues in the debate. The speaking time for the replies shall be one minute per author. Ministers' speaking time will depend on the number of questions – there are many, and I will simply give you an indication of time. We will therefore try to move forward as effectively as possible so that we can conduct at least the three debates and not disproportionately accord all the time to a single debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u2	I would remind you: either you use your three minutes to ask the questions mentioned and they will be noted in the record, or you use this speaking time for an extrapolation, but in this case these questions cannot be answered. If you raise the issue by referring to the written text, you gain in speaking time. The purpose of the exercise is to summarize its questions to the maximum extent possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u3	Madam President, I would like to intervene on the order of business. I have six questions about the economic impact of the corona crisis. I think this is a strange course of action. I understand the Conference's request for the delay to be resolved as quickly as possible, because there are so many questions. Yet three minutes to ask six questions and one minute per reply are very little. If I had had half my questions submitted by my colleague Mr Gilissen, we would have had twice as much speaking time. I think this is a case of two sizes and two weights. Two questions or six questions relate to the same speaking time. In my view, we would have been much better able to apply the other committees' working methods, in particular ten minutes per group. I think that would have been much more correct. I fully understand the situation, but I hope that this can be changed in the future. Otherwise, I will put a hundred questions on the economic impact of the corona crisis and then consider whether we should deal with it in three minutes. We are a supervisory body and we must do our parliamentary work properly. This corona crisis also deserves a thorough debate. We can't rush that by dealing with 130 questions at two hours' time, as we are doing now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u4	I respond quickly by saying that this is a method and that other methods have already been tried this week. The Conference of Presidents will be able to draw the conclusions of this first week from a very special and unusual operation. We will remain on the choice that has been made for this committee, a joint committee Social Affairs and Economy. We will draw conclusions at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u5	Madam President, I will not repeat what my colleague has said. I know there are reasons for applying this. I do have a practical question. In addition to an oral question, I have an interplay. How do we handle it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u6	At the end of the current affairs debate and of the question-and-answer session, you will be able to read out the inquiry. You start by asking your oral question and the inquiry will take place at the end of the topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u7	I understand your concerns, ladies and gentlemen, but with the cabinet we have done an exercise, both in terms of work and in terms of the economy. We have read all your questions carefully, and we have prepared answers to most of them. I will therefore give an overall answer and I will indicate in each part of my speech what questions I answer. If it turns out that some of the items are not listed, please refer to them in your reply. I have gone over the questions and I commit myself that in the answer I will give most of your questions, almost all of you, will be addressed. Even if those questions are not asked and you do not have enough time to ask them, all the answers are in my global answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u8	We have called for this debate to continue in committee. We must make every effort to protect the health and income of the working population as much as possible. Nevertheless, we received a lot of reports from employees such as interims. I would like to give an important example for many cases. Lieze graduated last summer in September and found an interim job as quality controler of fruit and vegetables in a grocery store. She also had the prospect of a steady job. She could start as an administrative clerk, but due to the outbreak of the corona crisis, her steady job was cancelled. The interim office also stopped her contract. It was therefore refused temporary unemployment. It has not had enough days to claim unemployment benefit. So she doesn't have any income right now. We have been constantly hearing such testimonies over the past few weeks. It concerns not only interim workers, but also people in the technical and cultural sectors, women in the service cheque sector, sick people who do not receive a guaranteed wage because employers put sick people retroactively on temporary unemployment. This is a problem. In the current crisis, it would be expected that social security and the principle of solidarity will ensure that everyone, the fully working population, is taken into account and that income is fully guaranteed. This is a crucial point in the fight against this epidemic. Too many people are forced to work out of fear of loss of income. At the risk of their own health, they go to work. Single mothers should choose between their health or survival at the end of the month. That's a choice no employee should make. I'll finish, Madam President. I refer to my questions. There were a lot of them. It was a task to ball everything together. What are you going to do with the income of those precarious workers? I refer to the example I have just outlined. On the basis of which criteria will the list of sectors and companies be further extended? More and more sectors are among the key sectors. We find it very strange, for example, that tailor-made companies are on that list. What happens if employers fail to comply, especially in companies where there is no union representation? Can we also ensure that the force majeure situation prevents redundancies in temporary unemployment systems, i.e. a ban on redundancies during temporary unemployment? That would be a good measure to protect employment. So much for my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u9	I would point out that those who have not asked a question in the topical and urgent debate will have one speaking time per group at the end of the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u10	Madam Chair, Minister, I have two questions that I will summarize briefly in order to be effective. Minister, as you know, the crisis of the VOCID-19 has a heavy impact on the professions of events, entertainment, animation and culture in general. Today, no longer include cancelled performances, suspended cultural activities or broken employment contracts. Unfortunately, for professionals in the sector, there is no possibility of teleworking. The only solution is simply to interrupt their activity for an indefinite period of time. The health crisis that we are going through again highlights the precarious status of artists and professions in the sector. In a totally unfair way, these artists, technicians or production managers do not enjoy the right to temporary unemployment for force majeure because of the intermittent nature of their jobs inherent in their trades. Most of the time, these professionals are employed in irregular or successive CSDs, which are very often short-lived. This is a specific sector which is unfortunately not sufficiently taken into account in terms of access to unemployment. In addition, Minister, we have long known that artist status needs to be reviewed and corrected. I have already asked you about this. Therefore, the current situation must be a lever for us to work together to adapt this status in order to meet the demands of the sector and its constituent federations. That is why, Madam Minister, I am asking you today to answer the following questions. Can you reassure us and tell us what steps you are going to take to help the sector through this large-scale crisis? Is it possible that the period of prohibition of artistic and cultural events will be frozen in the calculation of the reference periods for access to unemployment and the renewal of the "status" for artists and technicians in the sector, as was also decided on by our French neighbours? Finally, do you confirm your intention today to work to adapt the status of artist? What timetable and method are you going to adopt?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u11	Good morning, Minister, I have also tabled a few questions and I will try to synthesize them. In order to preserve the purchasing power of workers, the government has given priority to the path of temporary unemployment. It is now known that the worker loses at least 30% of his earnings, not to mention the uncollected benefits. Nevertheless, he receives a supplement from his employer, but the loss of pay remains considerable, especially for the vulnerable public. In France, a temporary unemployed worker receives not 70% of his lost earnings but between 84 and 100% of his net earnings. For my party, purchasing power remains essential. So, Madam Minister, are you planning to increase temporary unemployment benefits further to deal with the coronavirus crisis? I will return again, Madam Minister, to the service titles. Once again, I urge you to put an end to these activities by taking steps to guarantee wages. I asked you last week in plenary and you told me that some people did not want to put an end to these activities, which were considered essential. I find this inhuman. I tell you again: playing with the health of workers is intolerable. Many testimonies come back to me every day from the field, telling me that the rules of security and social distancing are not applied. I therefore do not understand that service title activities are on the list of essential sectors, while both employers and workers are asking for an end to activities. I therefore ask you to put the health of workers before any other consideration and to put an end to the activities of the service titles. This brings me to a more global reflection. How is it possible today to consider trades as essential by agreeing to pay them indecently? Service security workers currently earn 11.50 euros gross per hour. I see in a glaring way that society is today carried by workers who are not well-considered and low-paid to date. Every evening, from the windows and balconies, they are applauded: white blouses, pharmacists, police officers, drivers, etc. It's a long list. All of these occupations considered to be important today are poorly paid. The Prime Minister indicated that there would be one before and one after the coronavirus. We will fight for this to be above all'social', with workers receiving a fair wage of at least 14 euros per hour. I'd like to know if you'll be with us to value the lowest wages. My last question is about the drifts found in some companies. Some companies are exemplary and choose to maintain full wages. But there are others, fortunately minority, who are trying to abuse the situation. It is my responsibility that more and more companies are challenging medical certificates. The National Enterprise Centre has recently denounced abuses of 'force majeure'. Are you aware of these practices and how do you intend to combat them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u12	I would remind you that if you use the three minutes, it is these three minutes that will also be used in the record of the meeting, not the questions. So, if you want your questions to appear as they are in the record, I invite you to refer to the written text.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u13	Minister, I am concerned about the situation of 160,000 jobists and students who are also experiencing this crisis of the VOCID-19. Last week, CSC and other organizations called for the creation of an exceptional emergency fund to help these young people who are unable to work. I'm thinking of Horeca, cinemas and so on. Generally, these are young people who really need these jobs to pay for their kot and education. In short, they are young people who are at risk of being double penalized by this crisis and therefore facing this double penalty. Minister, these are my questions. What measures do you intend to take to help these young people who have been penalized by the VOCID-19 crisis? Do you intend to create an exceptional emergency fund as advocated by the CSC and other organizations, and if so, how do you intend to do so? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u14	Minister, I would like to refer to three points in this debate. A series of measures have been taken with regard to temporary unemployment, but there are still thousands of people who find themselves without a solution, without a safety net. I am thinking in particular of those who have fixed-term contracts or temporary missions and who do not have an alternative. I would like to relay the call made by Smart, which has almost 20,000 members and represents a whole sector of people working on temporary contracts. We support their request that temporary, partial or total unemployment be increased for economic reasons in these cases. There's no reason to leave them on the edge of the road. Environmentalists want to find a solution for them. I would also like to draw your attention to workers in the retail sector. This sector continues to function, for the benefit of our fellow citizens, but under extremely complicated circumstances, whether in terms of health or economics. Many claims have been made and I wanted to know what your contacts are at this stage. Agreements have been announced for some companies. How are your contacts with the unions, but also with the companies, to see if it is possible to revalue their work and ensure that their working conditions are better than they are today? Finally, for all those who are job-seekers, we want to stop the degressiveness of unemployment benefits. There is currently no opportunity to seek or find employment. There is no reason to punish these people even more. What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u15	Madam President, Minister, I can, of course, endorse many of the concerns expressed by my fellow Members. I have actually entered into the debate on one specific point, for which a decision really insists. In all honesty, I also find it a bit unfortunate that that decision has not yet been taken. You play briefly as Minister of Economy and Work on the ball in a number of files. I have not failed to mention that either, but in this regard I believe that a swift decision is also necessary. We are experiencing a health crisis and economic crisis, but we are also experiencing a social crisis. Although the corona virus can affect anyone, the consequences for everyone are not the same. I would like to draw particular attention today to the people without jobs. Then I hope that today, with a political commitment from you as the competent minister, we can at least temporarily freeze the degressivity. This really isn't a time to lower people's income further. People can't de facto apply. It is good that a lot of measures are being taken for people with jobs, but these fellow citizens also deserve support and a clear signal. I know that's what they're talking about. I also know that you are in agreement with the social partners, but I think it is time to make that decision. That is my question to you. Are you taking a power of attorney decision on that? Then let's do it quickly. Another way is the way of the bill. Some of your colleagues, as well as yourself, are working through a legislative proposal for certain matters. Mr Verherstraeten also announced this before the social elections. There is also a legislative proposal on this point. Mr Willaert and I have tabled a legislative proposal which will be considered tomorrow. So we can work quickly on that. I therefore ask you to make a clear political commitment to freeze the degressivity. It can be done through a bill, which may be the fastest way. Our group has tried to take care of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u16	Madam Chair, first of all, I would like to say a few words to thank you, as well as all the services of the House, for allowing our democracy to function in these particular moments. I only have one question. It concerns the performing arts sector, which, at the latest, is hardest hit economically, just after the Horeca. It would have lost more than 80% of its turnover. This sector did not need that. The social status of artists and workers in the cultural sector remains one of the most precarious of our labour and social security laws. Most of these people multiply short-term or even very short-term fixed-term contracts. These particular employment contracts are often linked to contracts for the sale, sale of performances between companies and venues such as theatres or cultural centres that programme these performances. The situation is worrying, because many representations to which these short-term fixed-term contracts are attached were cancelled after the prohibitions on assembly entered into force, throughout the duration of the confinement obligations which obviously go hand in hand with social distancing. Workers engaged in these representations or activities which have been cancelled since the beginning of confinement cannot, therefore, in the present state of unemployment regulation, benefit from unemployment as a result of force majeure, which reflects a real socio-economic inequality for this category of workers. So my question is simple. Minister, what measures do you intend to take to enable these professionals to qualify for temporary unemployment within the meaning of the unemployment regulation? If you intend to take action, could this regularisation apply since the beginning of the ban period, i.e. on March 13th? Can cancelled benefits be considered eligible under the reference periods to determine the amount of the artist's allowance? It would be good if this status of artist, even if it can be improved, was not a new victim of this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u17	Madam President, Madam Minister, my speech will focus on the importance of involving the social partners in the reflection on essential jobs. It is important to remember that social consultation should not be called into question by coronavirus. The views of the workers cannot be ignored. It was also found that for the first list published in the Ministerial Order, there was a clear lack of consultation with representatives of employers and workers, but above all workers. This has been seen, in particular, in the case of large-scale distribution, with a desire to change the opening hours without any real consultation. Similarly, the social partners and especially the workers have not been involved in drawing up the list, even though they are best aware of the reality on the ground. They are the ones who are at the forefront of this virus. Minister, this list of key sectors must be able to evolve. As my colleague Mrs Sophie Thémont pointed out, we do not understand the obstinacy to maintain the activity in the service titles despite the agreement between the workers' representatives and the employers' representatives. There is the same attitude towards suitable work enterprises. Not all activities are essential. The 32,000 disabled workers are at risk. It's irresponsible and unfair. It is essential to review the list and take better account of the reality on the ground. In the same way, in industrial sectors such as chemistry, cement, glass, metallurgy and the iron and steel industry, it is also clear that not all these activities are essential and that the conditions of respect for social distancing and the maintenance of the health and safety of workers are not always respected. In fact, a worker who died of the pandemic was found because the employer refused to wear the mask in order not to scare clients. I receive a lot of testimony from workers, especially in the construction sector, where it can be verified that distancing is not respected. Minister, do you guarantee respect for social consultation in all decisions concerning work and social security? How will the list of key and crucial sectors evolve? Who controls compliance with social distancing security rules? How many controls have been organised? How are these checks carried out? How many PVs were trained? How many fines have been issued? How many companies have been closed? Finally, what protection do the persons who control have? Can you certify that they are not at risk? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u18	Madam President, I would like to take the floor briefly on the order of business. You were quite clear, Madam President. I myself was present at the Conference of Presidents when it was decided how we could refer to the written preparation of our oral questions. However, I conclude from the chat between colleagues that this is still unclear for many of them. I would like to repeat what was agreed at the Conference of Presidents even before the corona crisis. That was, by the way, on Mrs Kitir's proposal. It was agreed at that time that colleagues could refer to the text of their oral question, which would then be incorporated fully into the report. As soon as one begins to sum up his question in some way or to ask other questions, the report will simply include the additional question of whether the summary is mentioned and no longer the full version of the original question. You have said this more than once, but I do not think it was clear for certain colleagues. I hear everyone's giving a summary after all. Anyone can do what he wants, of course, but in that case only the spoken word will be included in the report and no longer the question in extenso. I would like to repeat that, because I see that there are discussions about this. I would like to clarify once again: this was separate from corona, it was agreed in the period preceding it. That has been agreed with all the groups, and I think we should respect that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u19	You do well, Mrs. Lanjri. That was what had been agreed and what would be done for that meeting. Perhaps the Conference of Presidents will decide otherwise for the following weeks, but that is how we will proceed today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u20	Madam President, I just want to clarify that I misunderstood. Decisions have indeed been taken at the time, but I think that the particular features of this committee meeting show that sometimes other things can apply in corona times. I have used my three minutes' speaking time. I admit I misunderstood. Mrs. Lanjri is right, outside of corona times. However, I understand from the chat that many colleagues have misunderstood. Perhaps the Conference of Presidents could consider making an exception to the interventions we have made so far. Now we have all understood very clearly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, I think I can say that the Conference of Presidents will take note of the problems that have arisen this week and will take a decision accordingly. Mrs De Donder, I now invite you to ask your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u22	Madam President, first of all, I would like to have a thought for all the workers who allow us to face this crisis and thank them. Madam Minister, today I would like to refer to the people who were somewhat forgotten during this crisis, particularly the many students who find themselves in a difficult situation and are unable to work. So they find themselves without income. They are not entitled to unemployment benefits while their kot, their courses, their food must always be paid. There are also all workers in precarious situations, a situation created by the Michel government. I am thinking of flexi-job workers, workers in the associative world, workers in particular who suffer a heavy loss of income and workers in platforms, such as Deliveroo, Uber, etc. who, for their part, are obliged to put their health at risk or to be without income. Last week, the Smart Cooperative asked us about the difficulties their members faced in accessing unemployment and support. There are 25,000 workers here. Most services via Smart are provided through short-term contracts, which means that temporary unemployment measures are only exceptionally accessible. Aid is not thought of for this type of worker, who, however, accounts for almost 10% of the labour market. Minister, it is important not to leave anyone at the edge of the road. What is planned for these workers? Does the government consider helping students and atypical workers? Have you contacted Smart? What are you considering to address their concerns? Artists also see their contracts cancelled in mass by the companies. When the event is still to be organised, the artist is not entitled to temporary unemployment and risks being left without anything. In addition, this endangers obtaining and sometimes maintaining the status of artist. Minister, what is planned to help artists? Will you take account of the situation by making provision for minimum consideration of benefits cancelled by the ONEM? Are you going to allow theatres or companies that would like to keep contracts for a cancelled show, without risking being accused of false statements Dimona? Parents also sometimes face a difficult situation. They must provide care for their children while continuing to work. Civil society called you on the subject. The PS, for its part, advocates the introduction of a specific coronavirus parental leave. What is the government's position on this? Are you planning to take steps to help families? Finally, as we know, this crisis is likely to have a significant impact on unemployment. Italy has already taken steps to ban dismissals in the coming months. This is a strong measure to protect workers. Does your government also intend to prohibit dismissals?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u23	Madam Chair, being physically in the Justice Committee, it was very complicated to join you in a virtual way. I'm just trying to go as fast as possible so I can cover all the material. Minister, thank you for your time and for explaining all the measures that you have at your disposal. We know that many measures have been taken and that you are in the oven and mill in a series of situations. We have all been questioned, even today in the press, by Smart, about these particular contracts, which mean that at some point the conventional measures do not apply to these workers who are at risk of being in great precariousness. This applies to a number of sectors, including the cultural sector, as other colleagues have mentioned. Minister, I know that you are very sensitive to the issue. What are the measures you are thinking about? We must be able to find the right way to find a solution for these thousands of workers in different economic sectors which, unfortunately, for the time being, pass between the grids of all the measures that have already been enacted by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u24	Colleagues, we're done with the questions. I still have to propose to the MR Group and the Open Vld Group a supplementary statement if they wish to do so through a speaker. Mr. Lachaert, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u25	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a clear time in which many people have lost their jobs outside their will and many self-employed and entrepreneurs have also had to stop their business in anticipation of the further evolution of the health crisis. With regard to the people who are currently in temporary unemployment, I would like to join with the questions that have already been asked by a number of colleagues about the possible termination of the employment contracts of those people. Of course, that cannot be the intention. Unfortunately, the fact that they are currently placed in unemployment cannot be a reason of force majeure to terminate their employment contract. I also think that this is not legally possible, because that is not a definitive form of force majeure. I would like confirmation from the Minister on this. What is your position on that? I come to another question. More than a million people are now temporarily unemployed, but a number of other sectors are crying out for additional manpower. The problem in agriculture is well known, but this also applies to the healthcare sector and logistics. There are indeed people in the reserve who can help. I know that the point is on the table, but is there any more clarity as to how people in the labour reserve could be motivated by temporary unemployment in order to get to work in those crisis areas, which now really need help, without being punished for that? As far as the degressivity of unemployment benefits is concerned, I certainly understand the demand to freeze the degressivity for the period we are currently experiencing, in which people cannot apply, provided it is clear that the normal trajectory can be resumed when the crisis is over and people can reapply. Finally, we have seen that there is an expert panel working to prepare the exit strategy socio-economically. What kind of timing is there? I would like to see how we can re-activate our economy and labour market in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u26	For the MR Group, is there a request to speak? No? Then we can leave it to the minister to answer. We install the PowerPoint, so that you all have access to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have an overall answer and, together with my answer, a powerpoint presentation is also starting, which provides additional support for the answers to the questions. Thank you for the many questions and many positive, supportive responses, which make it pleasant for us, as it is clear that we are operating today in very special times. You may have expected the slide you see first, but I have placed it first, because in recent weeks there has been quite a lot of work done by people who are active in the healthcare sector and who are doing brilliant work in the line of fire, the front line. However, I would also like to express my sincere thanks to the members of my administration, including the FPS, the RVA, the Auxiliaries, the social secretariat staff and the benefit cases, for what they are doing in the current circumstances. Allow me to put some numbers next to each other. We normally have about 400,000 unemployed, while there are 1.2 million applications for temporary unemployment today. Many of these applicants did not yet have a file and were therefore not known by the services. Soon I will discuss the payments, but what the members of the administration are doing may also be put forward. I think it is important to highlight this work too, because it requires exceptional efforts that certainly deserve a thank-you. We did not wait until the crisis burst into full force and there were questions. As early as the beginning of February, proactive efforts were made to minimise the impact of the corona crisis on the labour market. Since then there has been continuous monitoring, systematic evaluation and adjustment where necessary. Today, in the often justified questions, I have heard target groups for which we are seeking solutions. In recent weeks we have tried to find solutions for many target groups and we have found them. We will continue that work. Colleagues, I repeat, almost four out of ten employees in the private sector: four out of ten people today see part of their purchasing power and therefore the financial security of their families as well, because since 2 February 2020 we have given access to temporary unemployment for reasons of force majeure. We have also gradually relaxed the measure. I will come back later to the various steps and to what the measure means to people financially. In addition, those involved also retain their jobs in this way. To put this in perspective, although I know that the comparison may not work, I would like to point out that between 23 and 26 March 2020 only 3 million people lost their jobs in the United States, often because there was no shelter network. That is why it has always been my intention to ensure that there was a measure that gave oxygen to the companies, but above all to the purchasing power, and that the main aim is to maintain employment. This seems very important to me. Consequential ministerial orders on emergency measures to limit the progression of coronavirus define, based on new data, the list of key sectors. Telework must be fully implemented. Where this is not possible, social distancing must be applied, in particular the maintenance of a distance of 1.5 metres between each person. Non-essential enterprises which are unable to comply with the measures mentioned must close and possibly resort to temporary unemployment as a result of force majeure. The various inspection services, both the social inspection and the Economic Inspectorate, continue to carry out checks so that the rules can be enforced in the interests of everyone. There is clearly a great sense of social responsibility among the vast majority of companies and their employees. But where necessary, excrement will be dealt with. I would like to take this opportunity to express my sincere thanks to all those who take up their responsibilities and also to those inspectors who continue to carry out their work with care and duty. A first slide, slide no. 3 is mainly about temporary unemployment, evolution and the framework. There were questions from colleagues Fonck, Dierick, Willaert, Vanrobaeys, Samyn, De Vuyst, and Leroy. On February 7, I decided to recognize the impact of coronavirus as a possible cause of temporary unemployment for force majeure. At that time, the definition of "force majeure" was strictly applied: the total inability to perform the work. In addition to temporary unemployment for force majeure, there was also the possibility of introducing temporary unemployment for economic reasons/reduced activity. On 4 March, the demand for temporary unemployment for economic reasons for employees was simplified. Since recognition takes some time, it may be foreseen that the company, pending recognition as a firm in difficulty, may call for temporary unemployment for force majeure. The procedure was further simplified on 13 March. All temporary unemployment linked to the effects of the coronavirus could then fall under the heading of force majeure. This was endorsed by the Council of Ministers on 20 March. Employers who applied for technical unemployment before 13 March 2020 were thus able to enter the new temporary unemployment procedure without formalities due to force majeure. I was asked why we needed these different steps. Sometimes I hear criticism: too much has changed and the conditions are not clear. Let me briefly outline the context. We come from a period when, in February, we first had to take action in response to the problems of sub-contracting from China and the problems in Italy, which had an economic impact on many companies. From March, when we took measures such as the closure of the cafes and other catering establishments, the line between what is economical and force majeure became more vague and vague. We also saw that it would be an administrative piece of work to bring everyone into a complex procedure. That is why we have introduced the Corona procedure, as I often call it. The different steps didn't just come. It was mostly external circumstances that forced us to react quickly. I believe that we have done the same. Many companies were faced with temporary unemployment for the first time and could not follow the submission of applications for access to the system. I have therefore decided to simplify the administrative procedure further, after consultation with the trade unions and the social secretariats. As from 22 March, therefore, the employer must no longer make a separate communication to the RVA. It is sufficient for the employer to state at the end of the month when the effective days are reported that they are temporary unemployment as a result of the corona crisis. Temporary unemployment for force majeure as a result of coronavirus is automatically accepted until April 19, 2020. Coronavirus is recognized as a force majeure until June 30, 2020. This period may be extended if the measures taken by the government are extended or strengthened. The RVA has also developed a FAQ that is kept permanently up-to-date and answers most of the questions of employees and employers. Information was also disseminated through social media by the RVA. This is also important for the submission of the application for temporary unemployment benefit. Numerous initiatives were also taken by the RVA in the field of communication to the payment institutions. Available information was also provided through their channels. In order to properly process the influx of files and ensure the timely payment of benefits, I have taken several measures to simplify the submission procedure, such as the use of a simplified declaration form. Services within the RVA are enhanced internally. Employees will also be able to perform services outside normal hours of service. The Auxiliary Fund for the payment of unemployment benefits provisionally calls for solidarity from colleagues in the civil service in order to obtain reinforcement. Trade unions have also made a very great effort to pay the maximum number of unemployed in good time. I'm gonna get back to you on that payment. Which brings me to slide four. There are currently no eligibility or reimbursement conditions for entitlement to benefits which must be checked when applying for benefits. Payment of benefits remains subject to an electronic declaration by the employer who must confirm temporary unemployment. Refundable conditions which still apply, but which cannot be verified when applying for benefits, will, as usual, be followed up retrospectively. The temporary unemployed person may continue to pursue the ancillary activity which he was already engaged in before his temporary unemployment. Other activities lead in principle to a loss of allowance for the day on which the activity is carried out. An exception to this rule is being considered with regard to assistance in crucial sectors. In order to make the procedure even easier, the control card has been temporarily abolished. The measure was taken to facilitate the administrative procedure in view of the exceptional circumstances. On the one hand, employers, some of whom have never been subject to temporary unemployment, are thus exempted from issuing this card to workers. On the other hand, this allows the payment of an unseen number of employees to be made much faster and automated. If the normal procedure were maintained, the payment could not be guaranteed within a reasonable period of time with the existing organisation and staff of the payout institution at the RVA. A question has been asked about the control card and part-time work. It's actually very simple. The days of temporary unemployment must be indicated. The days when people work, they don't. In this way benefits can be clearly explained, according to the days on which they are worked or in temporary unemployment. The number of benefits and the amount of benefits are calculated not in principle on the basis of the control card but on the basis of the employer's declaration of social risk, on which the worker per day mentions the hours of temporary unemployment. For the days on which the workers continue to work, no unemployment is indicated by the employer, so that no benefits can be paid for these days either. Since, for example, a part-time worker in case of a full month of unemployment will be unemployed in total fewer hours than a full-time worker, the lump sum will not be identical. Depending on the declared unemployment, the ONEM can carry out checks on companies whose workers do telework in principle and check through all possible means whether the declarations of social risk made by the employer correspond to the reality. The inventory of fraud mechanisms is currently being compiled. Preventive controls in the field are again being considered. There will also be controls on possible abuses by the company. It goes without saying that the guaranteed wage is in any case maintained for the days of illness preceding the start of a period of temporary unemployment. Employers are not allowed to allow temporary unemployment to take effect retroactively. I hear this is happening on the premises. This can't be happening. That's fraud. It has to be very clear. I can't do this. If one was ill at the beginning of the corona crisis, then one was ill. Period. That's obvious. I said it slowly. The message is supposed to arrive. The inspection services have not yet received a listing from the trade unions of companies that would. We are happy to receive them so that our inspection services can check whether the wages in the companies were paid correctly. In order to receive benefits from temporary unemployment for reasons of force majeure, the worker must not fulfil the eligibility conditions. In order to receive benefits from temporary unemployment for economic reasons, the eligibility conditions shall not apply until 30 June 2020. In order to be entitled to full unemployment benefits after the corona crisis, the paid days of temporary unemployment will be treated as working days. I think this is important, too. Workers who, on their return from a risk area, are required to be quarantined for professional or private reasons, preventing them from returning to work on the scheduled date, may be temporarily unemployed for reasons of force majeure during the period of quarantine. A worker temporarily prevented from working as a result of a situation of force majeure is in circumstances where the performance of his employment contract is legally suspended. Since 13 March and during the period of the protective measures imposed by the authorities, the concept of force majeure has been applied flexibly and the situations of temporary unemployment caused by coronavirus can all be considered as temporary unemployment for force majeure. Where there is no task which is suitable for telework at home for all workers and social distancing measures cannot be complied with, the company may apply for temporary unemployment for force majeure. During temporary unemployment for force majeure, the worker is entitled to an allowance from the ONEM. I can also confirm that the days of temporary unemployment due to force majeure due to the coronavirus, for the calculation of the amount of the holiday allowance and the duration of the holiday of workers, will be treated as effective days worked. The draft royal decree is ready and is currently before the Treasury Inspector for advice. There are no specific rules on voluntary work for the unemployed. Under the usual conditions, a fully unemployed volunteer can work. Until 30 June 2020 it shall be exempt from reporting. In the case of temporary unemployment for reasons of force majeure, conditions of eligibility are never required, so that the young person who would not have completed his employment period can actually receive a temporary unemployment benefit if his employment contract has been suspended for reasons of force majeure. That's important, too. I will also look into the equivalence of days of temporary unemployment due to force majeure with working days in the context of maternity rest with my colleague, Mrs De Block, because that question was also asked. On slide 5, it's about questions about the benefit. These questions came from Mrs Vanrobaeys, Mr Anseuw and Mrs Dierick. Temporary unemployment benefits were increased from 1 February 2020 to 70% of the gross wage of employees, limited to 2,754.76. From 1 March 2020, the temporary unemployed person due to force majeure shall receive a supplement of EUR 5.63 per day of allowance. This is an indexation of the amount of EUR 5 provided for by the Employment Contracts Act as an additional unemployment benefit by the employer in connection with the suspension of the performance of the employment contract as an employee for lack of work resulting from economic causes. The EUR 5.63 supplement, which will be paid by the ONEM, concerns both workers and employees. The number of benefits and the amount of benefits are calculated not in principle on the basis of the control card but on the basis of the employer's declaration of social risk, on which the employer mentions the hours of temporary unemployment per day. For the days on which the workers continue to work, no unemployment is indicated by the employer, so that no benefits can be paid for those days either. The number of benefits per month is therefore calculated on the basis of the number of hours of temporary unemployment. Workers who work from home from part of the work are not entitled to unemployment benefits for those days, since they are not without work or without pay. Unemployment benefits may be granted only if the performance of the contract of employment has been suspended for the full day. The employer may not mention temporary unemployment in the declaration of social risk for those days, so that no payment can and will be made. The temporary unemployed person may continue to engage in an ancillary activity which he was already engaged in before his temporary unemployment. Other activities lead in principle to a loss of allowance for the day on which the activity is carried out. An exception to this rule is currently being considered for assistance in vital sectors. Slide 6 is about everything that has to do with temporary unemployment and benefits. Payment of benefits for temporary unemployment in March may be made from 1 April 2020 provided that an application for an allowance has been made and that the employer has confirmed temporary unemployment by electronic means. We will not fully see the figures for payments made in March 2020 until the end of April. They will only then be at the disposal of the RVA. I can tell you that the RVA received applications for temporary unemployment until 7 April for 1,258,459 workers. I would, however, like to make the nuance that the effective number of workers who have been paid will be around 900,000. After all, companies often apply for temporary unemployment for the whole of their business, for all their staff, but that does not mean that all these people have been placed in temporary unemployment. Sometimes one can keep part of the servants at work, or a certain department, while other departments go into temporary unemployment. Departing from the applications for 1,258,459 employees, we assume that about 900,000 people will actually receive temporary unemployment by the month of March. That won't always be full-time. After all, it can also be for a number of days. On the basis of the situation on 3 April of the electronic social risk declarations and the notifications for the month of March, and taking into account the number of days reported, the additional expenditure on temporary unemployment for corona for the month of March is estimated at EUR 960 million. This is a preliminary estimate that does not yet take into account the budgetary impact from April. This estimate covers 1 150 000 people and 112 000 employers. This estimate also takes into account the higher amounts set by the government for all temporary unemployed. Until April 7, 2020, the ONEM has received requests for temporary unemployment from 122,330 employers due to the coronavirus. As far as benefits are concerned, Mr Lachaert asked a question about the Emergency Cash for Unemployment Benefits. According to people from the ACLVB, 80% of payments could be made this week. That number changes every hour, every half day. Employees of the payoff boxes are working day and night. At some point, I considered introducing an advance payment system, because we were getting signals that the situation might take a while. We then put the heads together and saw that we had to take two steps. We wanted to find out how we could give as many people as possible the right amount. They have committed themselves to this. I do not anticipate the figures, but to Mr Lachaert, who pointed out that it is already 8 April today, let me say that it is only the sixth working day and that some of the data on individual performance arrived only at the beginning of April. Indeed, many companies have waited until March was completely over to give in to the workers' performance. Now there are companies every day that give in performance. People are also working very hard at the Hulpkas, but the situation there is different from the other payoff cases. That is where workers end up who are not syndicated and have never been in temporary unemployment. This requires more administrative input, because a dossier needs to be created. The procedure is not so well known either. We are making a strong effort to move forward quickly there. For the individual files we also do our best to follow them as closely as possible. As things stand at present, I think that by the end of this week the vast majority of people will have received their benefit by March. I myself have no merit in this, but the people of the various services. Slide No. 7 is mainly about temporary work. There were questions from Mrs Vanrobaeys, Mrs Willaert and Mr De Vuyst. Temporary workers with longer contracts are subject to the same conditions as permanent workers. They may be temporarily placed in unemployment together with permanent workers. By "longer assignment," we mean that a new agreement would normally be concluded at the end of the current interim agreement and of the period of temporary unemployment and that the temporary worker would therefore continue to work if there had been no coronavirus. The temporary agency can prove this on the basis of the contract concluded with the employer or the user. For example, a temp has been working with the same user for three months as a permanent employee. Successive agreements have been concluded on a weekly basis. This also applies if the temporary employment contract is followed by a permanent employment contract of indefinite duration and if the temporary agency worker has a longer contract with a user in the week from 9 to 13 March 2020, but the temporary employment contract could not be renewed from 16 March. Even if new successive temporary employment contracts were to be concluded with the same user for a longer term, by the week of 6 April at the latest, the temporary employment worker could be temporarily unemployed together with the permanent workers. What we cannot and will not do is to anticipate contracts. It cannot be the intention to work with retroactive effect. Mr De Vuyst, in your story about a certain Lise, it seems logical to me that Lise should be placed in temporary unemployment. You can also always give us the specific dossier so that we can look at it. This depends on the date on which the interim contract was terminated. In recent weeks, we have also invested a great deal in disseminating information to the interim offices and social secretariats. However, specific questions can always be passed on. The questions we receive also show that the application is not always smooth. That's why the files can be passed on to us. Temporary unemployment is also possible for employers who cancel future events and for whom contracts have already been signed. However, it is required that the parties be in good faith. The parties cannot have concluded the contract of employment at a time when it was already established that due to the crisis of the coronavirus, a start to execution was in principle no longer possible. Temporary unemployment under employment contracts concluded after 13 March 2020 cannot, for this reason, be accepted unless the following conditions are met cumulatively. Colleagues, I am referring to the questions about Plopsaland and Walibi, for example, as well as the question about the Philharmonic Orchestra. Now, it is quite clear that the existing employment contracts must be respected, which means that the people concerned must be placed in temporary unemployment. That is the answer we always give to those who ask us directly. This seems to me to be an important measure, the application of which we discussed with the RVA two weeks ago. The recruitment is necessary for organisational reasons in the company, for example the replacement of an employee who is an indispensable link for the operation of the company in which part of the work is still carried out regularly, for example two days a week. Under no circumstances can employment contracts be anti-dated, as I have already stated. The ONEM will carry out checks on this matter. Employers and workers are asked to keep the necessary documents that demonstrate their good faith. A Dimona declaration concerning an occupation in the future but which was made before 13 March 2020 may be evidence of good faith. Ladies and gentlemen, there were also a lot of questions about artists and artists, about Mrs Chanson, about Mrs Vanrobaeys, Mrs Matz, Mr Vanden Burre, Mr De Vuyst, Mr De Smet and Mrs Dedonder. Artists who have a status as employees may apply for temporary unemployment because of force majeure. If an employment contract has been concluded within the framework of an event to be organised, i.e. an event that would start in the future, and the employer has decided not to break the contract, even if the execution has become definitively impossible, that agreement may still be suspended and temporary unemployment benefits may be received from the RVA, provided that the employment contract was not concluded at a time when there was already a doubt as to whether the event could take place. Workers who are not bound by an employment contract are entitled to full unemployment if they meet the conditions of this scheme. I would like to add one more thing. Soon I will also say something about the measures that are still in the pipeline. Many colleagues have concerns about the status of artists, and rightly so. I've heard them say a few times that they have a very difficult statute. Much has happened to them in recent years. Today they have a status of unemployment at 60%, without degressivity, they remain at 60%. Is this ideal? No, but saying nothing happened is not correct. It is a very specific and technical statute. However, the condition for staying in that unemployment rate of 60% is that three annual performances are carried out in order to avoid this degressivity and maintain that 60%. I've decided to extend that period with the corona period for achieving those three performances. There was a very clear question to do this. You will see later, this is in the measures that are before the government today. I can make that decision with a simple royal decision, and I am going to do so, so that we have a decision very quickly, and it is known that in order to achieve those three achievements, the period will be extended by the corona period. Then there were questions about freelancers and window contracts from Mrs Vanrobaeys and Mr De Vuyst. The question was whether all workers with artistic activities other than those mentioned above are entitled to a temporary unemployment benefit. Framework contracts do not comply with the rules mentioned, which are already derogations from the general principles. Workers who are not linked to a contract of employment are entitled to full unemployment if they meet the conditions of the system. The payment of temporary unemployment presupposes that there is a contract of employment in the circumstances mentioned above. Then I come to the questions about everything related to service cheques and household help, questions from Mrs Leroy and many others. The securities-service sector is one of the sectors considered non-essential, except for services of care and social assistance to vulnerable audiences. Every employer is required to apply and comply with all preventive measures, including social distancing. Given the specific work situation of the workers, no general decision can be taken to prohibit work in the sector. Situations should be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. I'm gonna say it again. If social discrimination rules cannot be complied with, the company must close down. If the rules on social discrimination can be complied with, we can continue to work. In a family where help is given, someone is ill or quarantined, we talk about an unsafe situation and then they don't work. The federal authority is exclusively responsible for working conditions and general rules concerning the safety and protection of workers at work. Employers should take as far as possible preventive measures that minimise risks to workers, such as providing personal protective equipment such as disposable gloves, etc. As I mentioned at last Thursday's plenary session, the financing of the service securities company is a competence of the Regions. Nor are the issues related to the compensation of these employees within our jurisdiction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add a few words. From a French-speaking angle, from Mrs Thémont and others, and also last week, I am being asked to close the sector. In Flanders there is a clear demand to leave the sector to work. I can only say that the rules I just mentioned are the rules. If social distancing cannot be respected, one does not work. In other circumstances, the best possible protection of people is ensured. Mr Goblet said that I should close that sector. Colleagues, I'm not closing down sectors. I have the impression that the way things are going today has still not been properly understood. There's a ministerial decision. There is an annex setting out the joint committees of the key sectors. If we take measures today, they will be submitted to the Crisis Centre. I've already submitted several. In the Crisis Centre there are representatives of the various FPS, experts, the different Cabinets are represented, the regions are represented, the RMG is represented. So there is a lot of expertise there. Those are large groups of people who discuss this and give their advice and deliver it to the National Security Council. On the basis of that opinion, the Council will draw up measures. The National Security Council includes the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Ministers and the Prime Ministers of the regions. It discusses the opinions of the Crisis Centre and takes decisions on the Ministerial Decision. So that's where the decisions are made. Soon in the debate on economic measures I will be asked to open garden centres, to close one and open the other. I can only present the files that I feel are alive, as is the case with the file on service cheques. Then this will complete a trajectory. It goes to the Crisis Centre and the National Security Council, where many of your parties are represented, both at the federal and regional level. That is where decisions are made on what is essential and non-essential, whether or not it is closed. In reply to Mr Goblet's question: as far as the social dialogue and the Group of Ten are concerned, I admit that there has been no formal consultation on the first list, in which we have gone very quickly. However, almost all the adjustments requested have been included in the annexes to the second Ministerial Decision. This has been done after a very extensive consultation with the social partners. Since then, the Group of Ten has been meeting for three weeks in a row. The various measures were also dealt with. I am sorry that people say that social dialogue would not be respected or not respected. That even pisses me off, because I know it's not. Slide 8. Mr Vanden Burre, Mrs Willaert and Mr De Vuyst have asked several questions about safe working during the corona crisis. We must, of course, ensure that as many people as possible can stay at work, but in the safest possible conditions. The Ministerial Decision of 23 March provides for a number of measures to maximise the use of telework and social distancing. In addition, welfare legislation obliges employers to analyse the risks to which their employees are exposed to work. For now, one of these risks is the possible contamination of coronavirus. The employer must then take appropriate preventive measures to minimise the risk of contamination for these workers by following the directives of the National Safety Council and also applying the principles of the Social Protection Act. This means, among other things, that workers are allowed to work as much as possible at home, that workers are kept sufficiently distanced, that social distancing, even during common transport, and that direct contact is avoided as much as possible. Good hand hygiene must be respected. Employers must provide soap, water and towels and, if not possible, alcohol gel. Workers must wash their hands sufficiently often. The workplaces must be kept hygienic by cleaning them regularly. As far as social discrimination is concerned, there is a distinction between the essential and non-essential sectors. If social discrimination cannot be respected in the non-essential sectors, this means that the company closes down. In key sectors, this means that the employer needs to think about other preventive measures that it can take to protect its workers as best it can. Of course, social distancing is also the best protection. The need for additional preventive measures depends on the nature of the work and the concrete working conditions. For example, collective protective measures, such as transparent screens between workers and customers in shops, or personal protective equipment, such as gloves and mouth masks if direct contact with the contaminated patient cannot be avoided – for example, in a hospital. In particular, in department stores, employers have already taken a wide range of measures to protect their employees as far as possible: carts are disinfected, a limited number of persons are allowed at the same time, transparent screens are placed at the checkouts and distances are respected by marking. Employers will continue to refine these measures, in close consultation with prevention advisers from internal and external prevention services and with the Committee on Prevention and Protection at Work. You can find all the information on the website info-coronavirus.be. The SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation website also contains information in the context of the current crisis. This information is constantly updated, in particular with regard to preventive measures at work, the consequences for the employment contract, social elections, etc. The publication of the list of essential sectors falls within the competence of the Minister of the Interior, as I explained. The latest version is from April 3. Mrs Vanrobaeys and Mr Goblet, you will see everything about checks on slide 9. Workers who believe that the necessary preventive measures, such as social distancing, cannot be respected, can always focus on the monitoring of welfare at work. The fully available inspection capacity is currently being used as a priority in the control of preventive measures under COVID-19. The inspection proactively checks and following a complaint. In the last two weeks, i.e. from 23 March to 3 April 2020, 704 corona-related complaints have been registered and 750 remote checks have been carried out via a checklist that is overflowing by phone and available online. An on-the-spot check was carried out on 328 employers, with 280 employers not being in good shape. A total of 280 employers received a warning, 52 employers were given a time limit to settle as a rule, 1 report was made and 20 companies closed. The Work Well-Being Control has of course carried out a risk analysis in order to protect its own inspectors as far as possible from possible contamination by coronavirus and to develop an inspection policy with preventive measures; for example, inspectors belonging to a risk category are not assigned to on-the-spot checks, documents are sent by e-mail rather than physically handed over, and social distancing must be respected. Mrs Vanrobaeys, Mrs Dierick, Mrs Matz, Mr Vanden Burre, Mrs Willaert, Mr Calvo and Mr De Vuyst asked what is still in the pipeline. You'll see it on slide 10. Measures are currently being prepared to facilitate the organisation of work and to support workers in order to promote the continuity of businesses. These measures are planned to run from 1 April to 30 June. The measures we are working on today are currently in the hands of the Group of Ten and they are scheduled to take a decision on these measures this evening. I will explain some of these measures, but I would like to make it quite clear that the discussions are still under way. They have been discussed in the IKW and within the government. They are currently ahead of the Group of Ten. They will then be dealt with by the government later this week and presented at the next supercore. A first step is that in critical areas, workers will be able to temporarily provide 120 new voluntary overtime hours. The employer must not pay any surcharge. The remuneration for such overtime will be exempt from social and tax contributions. The gross amount is therefore equal to the net amount. This regime is in line with what exists today in the Horeca sector. Secondly, employers and employees in the critical sectors will be able to conclude, without limitation, successive fixed-term contracts temporarily without the result of an open-ended contract of employment. For example, we want to allow workers, including those who are temporarily unemployed, to conclude short-term fixed-term contracts in order to provide more hands in sectors where demand is high. Thirdly, employers will be able to make their workers available to employers in critical sectors on a temporary and flexible basis. Workers will have to give their consent. The conditions and duration of such provision shall be specified in a document signed by the three parties. The user must ensure that workers can work safely. The mechanisms for protecting workers against social dumping, such as the principle of equal pay for equal work, will continue to apply. There were also many questions about students. Students who work between 1 April and 30 June can carry out student work without limitation. During this period, the hours worked will be neutralized. They will therefore not be charged for the annual quota of 475 hours. During these hours they will be able to work with reduced social contributions. We see that many students were employed in the catering industry, in jobs they can no longer carry out today. At the same time, there is a great deal of demand from, for example, the food sector and from agricultural and horticultural companies to be able to hire students. That is why the proposal is now on the table that we are working with the regions to see how we can set up a platform to match job students to the sectors that ask for job students as best as possible. Which sectors are looking for job students, and who is looking for a job as a job student today? We want to make the match by establishing that platform. In addition, it will be possible to suspend the time credit and career interruption in order to return to work for his own employer and return to work after the temporary job. So whoever's in career break can do the same. People who take up time credit, who are in career break or who are temporarily unemployed do want to work in certain sectors. For example, the agricultural and horticultural sector is crucial, but other sectors are asking parties. We are still looking at how this can be made possible. Perhaps there is a need for encouragement to take up work in certain sectors. This proposal is still before us for discussion and will also be discussed with the social partners this evening. Mr Calvo, we will freeze the degressivity of unemployment. I also heard about this in the Morning. I had a text ready last week, but, as you know, it is presented in a series of measures to the Council of Ministers and the process of concerting on this subject is continuing. The intention, as you yourself suggest, is to neutralize the degressivity, which means that we will continue to hold on to the situation on 1 April and freeze for a period of three months, when the situation continues longer. This measure means that, after the corona period, people simply return to unemployment by the rate applicable on the date of 1 April, and from then on they will go through the remainder of the period that was still applicable to those concerned from 1 April. This measure is also ahead of the social partners today. I suspect there will be little problem with it. I don't even need a bill to do that. I think you support me in dealing with this as soon as possible, the sooner, the better. I can arrange this by royal decision, and it is my intention to do so by royal decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u28	Madam Secretary, do you mean a simple royal decision or a power of attorney decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u29	It's an ordinary KB, because it's about unemployment. The Minister for Employment has quite a lot of authority over this. So I can do it with an ordinary royal decision. The same goes for the artists who will be taken. We will also take with us students during the integration period. That is a measure we must take. Mr Lachaert and others asked questions about a premium. What will the government do? Will she do anything with a bounty? Can employers give a bonus today? Today, this question is not yet before the social partners, but in the Council of Ministers. There are two aspects to this. The first concerns employers who ask whether they may grant additional holidays or a premium. They also ask whether the government is prepared to exempt them from social and fiscal charges. This week I have seen with you that, especially in the distribution sector, agreements have already been reached in which holidays and premiums from EUR 500 to 900 have been given. A letter has been written to the government asking for tax and social exemption. We shall look into that question. The second aspect concerns the question of whether the federal government will also do something for people in the key sectors, for example in the healthcare sector. Some of my colleagues have already said that. I can only tell you that this question is also on the table today and that we are looking at it carefully. In doing so, we must consider the costs and how the group can be delineated. The regions also need to be involved, because this is my personal opinion if we are to do something for the people who give the best of themselves in federal hospitals day and night, then we must do it for the people in residential care centres. We must therefore look at this question with the regions. This requires consultation. The government is working on that. We must find a solution to this problem and hopefully we can make a decision on it as soon as possible. Further consultations with the social partners will be necessary to obtain a clearer picture of the impact of the Corona crisis and the dismissal of workers. The broad application of the measure of temporary unemployment is precisely intended to avoid redundancies and allow for the withdrawal of the activity to start immediately with workers who are still bound by a contract of employment. As regards the issue of temporary force majeure and notice periods: temporary unemployment due to force majeure does not suspend notice. This issue will be discussed in more detail with the social partners. After all, it cannot be said that employees who are temporarily unemployed because of force majeure are given notice in order to circumvent the statutory notice periods. I have just heard Mr Lachaert's speech. That is certainly something that we still have on our list as homework. Slide 15 deals with the combination of telework and family. Mrs Willaert, Mrs Leroy, Mr Dedonder, we are aware that the current situation is not evident for many people. Self-employed people try to keep their heads above water, the temporary unemployed cannot continue their work and also see their income fall. However, people who are still working and who have to take care of their children at the same time are also having a hard time. They may have less concerns about their income, but they often have more difficulty in getting the organisation of their household practically around. If you work outside the home, you will have to arrange the necessary care, but in many cases you will have to combine this with the care of small children or children with a care question. Even if employers are often flexible, in practice it is not evident to the workers concerned. In any case, our question to employers has been to give targets to teleworking people, for example on a weekly basis, so that they can determine their rhythm, but I am well aware that this is not possible everywhere. In addition, we can say that existing leave systems, such as parental leave and time credits, offer many opportunities for workers to achieve a better balance between work and private life. Even in the current context, such leave allows workers to stop working to care for their children, with a higher age requirement for disabled children. Since 1 June 2019, the inclusion modalities of parental leave have become much more flexible, which means, inter alia, that employees can split full-time parenthood into weeks instead of months in consultation with the employer, and half-time parental leave into months instead of two-month periods. The regulations in question also allow the employer and employee to deviate by mutual agreement from the normal application periods so that they can respond quickly to reception requirements. During parental leave and time credit, the employee is entitled to a benefit from the RVA. Days off, social leave, etc. can also offer a solution in specific cases. We try, as much as possible, to find a solution for the parents who have to look after their children themselves. The combination with telework is not always obvious. Since these are many temporary unemployed workers, for some parents in this group, this is a solution for the care of their children. I, myself, had proposed to use child care as a criterion for temporary unemployment, but the government did not go into that. A special parental leave could be introduced, but this scheme is complex and, moreover, parents concerned would receive income lower than income through the temporary unemployment scheme. Mrs Willaert, you spoke specifically about the accessibility of supermarkets. The National High Council also contacted me on 19 March 2020. We asked Comeos together the same day to examine the slopes you mentioned. From Comeos it was confirmed that the situation in the shops is almost completely normalized. Where necessary and to the extent possible, care shall be taken to ensure that risk groups, caregivers and people with disabilities can be given priority assistance. As regards the measure of individual shopping, it is confirmed that account is taken of the fact that persons with disabilities need a companion when carrying out their messages. The non-acceptance of cash payments is justified from a hygienic point of view. I myself see that almost everywhere on the premises is paid electronically. Sometimes one cash register is left open where cash payment is still possible. European legislation says that it can be applied on condition that it is made known. I hear that's what happens in supermarkets. Other proposals you make, as well as Unia's advice, are valuable, but do not belong to my powers. I repeat, however, that virtually all shops, home delivery services and pick-up services today say that they are back to normal capacity and are also able to serve the specific target groups. I would also like to thank the sectors which have responded rather quickly to the question of finding solutions. In my writing, Mrs Willaert, your question also remains about tailor-made companies. That's a tough case. We are also in agreement with the regions on this. Some workers are ill, others have partial or full employment contracts. There are also large differences in income. This can be interpreted as discriminatory. So we need to find solutions. We're definitely gonna look into that. There were also questions about the pressure on the OCMWs. I do not need to remind you that the regions also have some competence for sanctions policy, especially as regards availability. Federally, we are responsible for fraud, residential fraud and undeclared work. However, I will certainly inform colleagues that there is a certain amount of pressure there. There was also a question about the day contracts of the clinics. That is where the logic of interim work is followed. If it could be expected that another contract would be given, it is logical for me that these people should be able to rely on temporary unemployment. If you get any signals about that, give them to us. It is difficult to have an insight into the expert strategy, which will always be linked to the National Security Council. We will then see what advice they give before rebooting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u30	Thank you for these very comprehensive answers, Minister. I would remind you that we will now take one minute per speaker to respond. I know that the exercise is extremely complicated, but I ask you to respect this speaking time so that we can continue the debates. Mrs Willaert, I will give you a minute to respond to the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u31	Madam Secretary, thank you for your very punctual answers. You've answered everything nicely. I share your words of thanks, including to the administrations and the payout institutions that have to do unseen work. I'm not giving any more punctual responses, but look forward to what's in the pipeline. You rightly referred to the United States. In recent years, our social security has often been under attack, but both for the health crisis and for the social crisis, our strong social security system makes it possible to get us through the storm of this crisis. We all do that together and no one has to be left behind, but we must not forget that we are only as strong as our weakest link.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u32	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answers and for the efforts made to support those who are temporarily unemployed. That was the main and first focus. Now we need to focus on the people who have remained at work in healthcare and other essential sectors. They should be given the necessary support and encouraged to remain at work. Applause is nice, but it does not pay invoices. I am pleased that several slopes have been launched and that you have communicated openly on this issue. We look forward to the follow-up to it and the decisions to be taken by the Group of Ten. I understand that there will be discussions in the near future. It is important that there are no more balloons, but that concrete decisions are taken. It is important that our economy continues to run, especially in the key sectors such as the food sector. In the agricultural sector it is also five to twelve. We need to get more people to work there. I'm very pleased that you're looking at the students for that. They do want to work, and it would be a good thing if we took action to do so. There are also those who want to work for the temporary unemployed. It would be a good thing if there were a coordination between sectors in need of additional workers and those who want to work effectively. Thank you for your efforts. We hope that a solution will soon be found to further support the people who remain at work. I wish you a great deal of courage in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u33	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive explanation and the great work of your services. Workers now want clarity, correct information and communication. It cannot be the intention that the temp should contact all kinds of agencies and wait weeks for his or her file to come up. With regard to the late payment of the Emergency Cash for Unemployment Benefits, I hope that it will be eliminated so that everyone gets their benefit in good time. For the home-working parent, the combination of work and family is not always easy. Certain employers also do not always understand the situation of the home-working parent. I therefore hope that the federal government will consider protecting against dismissal in these exceptional circumstances. Then the home-working parent cannot be dismissed, suspended or punished during this corona crisis because, for example, he or she has not worked enough hours. There is also the possibility that the overworked parent will get a burn-out in post-corona time by combining work and caring for the family. We must certainly avoid that at all costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u34	Mr. De Vuyst must have joined the Finance Committee. He's asking you to excuse him.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u35	Madam Minister, thank you for the humanity with which you have brought all this information. I am aware that you are seriously addressing all these issues. Having said that, I fear that if we count the patients of VOCID-19 on a daily basis, we will soon have to do the same with the exhausted virus, which is very numerous. When we ask questions about service titles, the front lines, the most vulnerable parents, it's always keeping these considerations in mind. As you have answered the other questions, I will return to the exceptional leave for parents, because it concerns all those I have just mentioned: from the most vulnerable to the front lines and service titles. We have measured what can be done today. If we want to support parents beyond a deconfination, we must already provide for more easily applicable measures. Although I have heard that you have some answers, I ask you to reconsider these aspects in the coming days and thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u36	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I will briefly mention three things. I made a proposal in plenary three weeks ago to do what is necessary to enable temporary unemployment in other sectors. It is a good thing that you are doing this, but it is important that we all realise that this is as important as it is on time and that it was possible to pay a replacement allowance or a replacement income. After all, it is those SMEs that are today yearning for a lot of workers who will be the backbone of the socio-economic recovery policy that we will have to start very quickly. In this respect, I regret the unilateral suspension of the degressivity of unemployment benefits. Of course, I have a great deal of sympathy for people who are unable to work, especially in a period like this, but for some of those unemployed who are now receiving unemployment benefits, there is a very high demand for workers in a number of sectors, such as agriculture, horticulture and care. It is a pity that this is so one-sided. Finally, with regard to the large difference in the rate of payment of the temporary unemployment benefit, the explanation you have given is incorrect. I have examples of an SME with a number of employees, some of whom are members of a trade union and some of them are not. Everything happens for every employee at the same time and then there is a difference in payout. It is not possible for those who are not members of a trade union to be punished for this and to wait longer for temporary unemployment benefits. This is incredibly important. Those people must also be able to pay their rent and their invoices on time. If others say that it is paid in good time, that timeliness has already expired. It is already too late and there is no good explanation for that. That is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u37	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for your very comprehensive answer, which clarified some of the questions I had. It is important that those answers can see right through to the ground. I know there's an effort to do that. It cannot be the intention that people who are already in a precarious situation in these circumstances should try to settle their own income situation by e-mail or telephone. As you said yourself, if you compare the situation with the United States, then the situation here is much better. This shows once again how important this solidarity is. We will get through this crisis thanks to this solidarity. I therefore call for this solidarity to be strengthened, even in the future. For me, that means contributions according to ability and getting according to needs. This can indeed be done in different ways: to ensure our health, to ensure that we can do this further and to take everyone with us, so that everyone can keep their heads above water.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answers. With regard to the abuse of companies in the context of force majeure unemployment, I am happy to hear that you are going to carry out checks. The social legislation in force in our country must be respected. This special system of temporary unemployment for force majeure, which corresponds to a real need in this context, should not be a victim of abuse and endanger our social security. As far as temporary unemployment is concerned, I think there is still work to be done, since the majority of workers suffer too much loss of income. You did not answer my question about the 80% increase, as is the case in neighbouring countries. For service titles, I will not let you go because I believe that the National Security Council must suspend activities. The Region has done its part in maintaining wages and the federal government must also play its part.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your long answer. I called you on behalf of the 160,000 jobists and students who are going through this crisis of the VOCID-19. I have heard that, for the period from April 1 to June 30, students will be able to work without limitation and that this would not be charged against their quota of hours, that is, 475 hours per year. That's positive. But you also know that there is not much work possible for students during this period; therefore, this measure looks very much like a measure. I am glad to hear that you have contacted the Regions to create a platform to connect the food, agricultural, horticultural and other sectors in order to try to bring together students looking for work with people who would need a workforce. On the other hand, you didn't say anything about this famous emergency fund that some people are demanding out loud. And I can only regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u40	Madam Secretary, you gave a very comprehensive and very interesting presentation. I myself am at odds with the entrepreneurs and the workers, and I can assure you that a lot of decisions have been taken very quickly and that many of these have been good decisions, which have really brought clarity. However, with regard to my specific question on the essential sectors, I have not yet been given any clarity. I had addressed this question to the Minister of the Interior. Then I was referred to you. And you're now referring back to the Home Secretary. It is very important that both workers and entrepreneurs are given clarity and transparency. That is still not the case at the moment. This lack of transparency really costs us a lot of money, as well as uncertainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u41	Mrs. Matz, please excuse her. She must have joined other work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u42	Minister, the exchanges have been rich. You have been clear on some aspects, and I thank you for that. This exercise is not always obvious. We've received a lot of information. We are reassured on some points. We stress, of course, that you confirm the freezing of degression, which is most likely to take place. It's obvious to us, not to punish those looking for a job for a second time. As has been said, there are other categories. I am thinking again of freelancers, people on fixed-term contracts, students, jobists. I know it's not easy, but at some point we will also have to take stronger action for them. It's about not leaving them at the edge of the road. Thank you, though, for this exchange, which has been intense and useful. We will come back to a whole series of points, but in the meantime, thank you already.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u43	Madam Secretary, I would like to join in the compliments. You have set a standard for how a minister can and should work with Parliament in these times. I mean that sincerely. You have also been open and you have been vulnerable to things that are in the pipeline and sometimes not approved at the pace you would like. You are an example for your colleagues. By the way, you do that with a lot of empathy for the terrain. I have also heard a lot of good things about the content, including the artists. I am also pleased to be surprised by the enforcement that is taking place with regard to working conditions, the figures you have shown with regard to well-being at work. That was a pleasant surprise for me, because also a concern of ours. There has also finally been a breakthrough in terms of degressivity. It is no surprise that our group thinks this is an important decision. I thought it could only be done through a power of attorney decision; that is why we have tabled a legislative proposal to speed up the work. However, if it can be done through a royal decision, the better. The sooner that measure is implemented, the better. The name underneath is totally subordinate to the substantive result.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u44	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. This exercise is indeed difficult. On the status of artist, you told us that the period that could give rise to the status of artist would be extended during the period of the crisis in order to be able to prove three performances. It's good news, even if it's the least, since we don't see how artists could prove anything as a performance during this period. I'm afraid that might not be enough. We had asked for the immunisation of artist status, i.e. to take into account also the cancelled performances for the renewal of artist status. Without this, when the deconfination happens, it cannot be expected that this sector, whose seasons are completely jammed, will be able to resume. There is a risk of keeping a large number of artists insecure. For those, and for those who are not in the status of artist – it was also the subject of a part of my question – I thank you for being vigilant. I am therefore only half reassured by your answer, but I thank you for providing it to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answers. However, I would like to point out that social consultation is not limited to the Group of Ten, despite its importance. We must also take into account, as I have pointed out for several sectors, what is really happening in the sectors, expectations, often common fronts, and common measures between employers and workers, whether in service titles, ETAs or in construction. I call for much more vigilance and attention to be paid to the importance of social consultation, not only by the Group of Ten, but also by sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u46	Minister, thank you for these answers. I think we can already learn from the crisis. We see very clearly the central role of social security. I hope that from now on we will be unanimous in order to sustain its funding. We also see the importance of socially useful trades. Again, I hope that in the future we will be able to remember and review their status. Regrettably, there is all the heightened vulnerability in some audiences. I said earlier: no one should be left at the side of the road. You answered some of my questions. You have not heard all my suggestions, but I hope that the situation can change further. Attention in relation to social security, the multiplication of fixed-term contracts. Attention also to all these overtime. It is not a question of detriculating social security even further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u47	Madame Song, we'll try again to listen to you. Unfortunately, we can't hear you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u48	Madam Minister, thank you for your detailed and clear statement. I would also like to congratulate the services that have had to do a titanic job in order to help more than a million people benefit in the very short term. That was absolutely not evident. At these times, we must try to fill the gaps in the labour market in the sectors where there is demand for workers: agriculture, care, especially care for the elderly, logistics, nutrition. We now have a reserve of 1.2 million people. Let us try to motivate them to contribute where it is necessary to keep our country running. We must now, together with the Minister, follow up on how the revival from this crisis will take place. It won't be obvious. We must get our economy back on track in a calm, healthy, safe and responsible way. It will be a challenge to ensure that we can put these terrible unemployment figures behind us. We will work actively on this in this committee together with the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u49	We will be able to move on to the second debate. I'll call the rules. Each author of a question has a two-minute speaking time. Anyone who has tabled two or more questions has three minutes to speak. Members may refer to the written text of their oral question, which will then be included in the minutes of the meeting. I would point out that either you decide to make a synthesis during these three minutes and it is it that will appear in the record, or you say that you refer to the written questions and nothing more and they will happen in the record. The author of several questions asks them all at the same time and the speaking time for the replies is one minute per author.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u50	Madam President, Minister, everyone is susceptible to corona, but the consequences are not the same for everyone. There is also a major social crisis behind the health crisis, which also deserves a bazooka of measures. The OMCWs are the most important link in guaranteeing social rights and should therefore remain absolutely accessible in the current period. Especially for people without computers or with limited knowledge of the national languages, the threshold is very high to assert their rights. Many people who were already in financial difficulties for the corona crisis are having a much harder time getting by today. I have the following questions. How will you ensure the accessibility of the OCMWs during the current period? Social and financial research cannot be carried out in the current circumstances, in the interests of the safety of OMCW staff and of clients. For example, social assistants cannot make house visits at the moment. We therefore call for as much flexibility as possible. What instructions have you given to the OCMWs in this respect? Two weeks ago, the press announced that the OCMWs would receive additional subsidies to support the needy with food or hygienic products. It would amount to EUR 3 million in additional resources. What is the key to these resources? What conditions are attached to these subsidies? How will the OMCWs be informed about this? In addition to the material support, the OMCWs naturally also see an increase in the number of financial aid applications. Do the figures effectively show an increase in the number of people knocking on the OMCW and receiving financial support? Is there also any provision for additional intervention in the aid applications, knowing that this crisis can last for a long time and has a very serious impact on various sectors, such as hotels and restaurants, the sector in which people balance on the edge? So my questions are not just about the present, but also about the future and the relance. After all, the social crisis will drag on for a long time. Have you planned any additional measures to support the OMCWs?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u51	Good morning, everyone. Thank you to all parliamentarians for their questions. From the outset, I mean, we think every day about caregivers, victims and their loved ones. We all know that VOCID-19 is already extremely difficult to cross when we have the means, but when we add the virus to poverty and poverty, it becomes difficult to overcome. It is for these reasons that my colleague Mrs Muylle is at work with our administrations, which are in contact with social actors on the ground on a daily basis, as far as I am concerned with the federation of CPAS. I will come quickly to provide you with answers on how CPAS adapt their work, while remaining available. We also have contacts with food banks. We have been able to provide them with additional resources. I'll be there later. We want this work to be more coordinated. That is why we are going to set up an inter-federal task force 'vulnerable groups'. Tomorrow meets the consultation group made up of all the actors of the field engaged in the social field: the federations of CPAS, the Belgian platform for the fight against poverty, Unia, Myria, the National Higher Council of Persons with Disabilities, the Centre for Gender Equality... All these actors will feed with their reflections and recommendations the task force that will meet next week. Together with my colleague Nathalie Muylle, we are piloting this task force. We were also joined by Maggie De Block but also - I was speaking at the moment of coordination - by all the regional ministers (Mrs Morreale, Mr Maron, Mr Beke), the Social Security SPF and the Social Integration SPF. The aim of this task force is to talk to us in this federal country, to coordinate our action more closely and to ensure that the most vulnerable are supported through our coordinated actions. This task force will recommend a number of additional measures to protect the most vulnerable, depending on the exchanges that will emerge from tomorrow's meetings with the consultation group and next week, with the task force. The food banks have a shortage of food from the large-scale distribution. In addition, they also face a shortage of volunteers. With my colleague Mrs Muylle, I was able to respond to the needs in this area. We have granted an additional budget of EUR 276,000 to the Federation of Food Banks and three large storage centres operating under the fund to help the poorest in order to grid the entire national territory. These centres are responsible for delivering food to all organizations that use them under the FEAD. My administration is in permanent contact with the sector to monitor evolution in the field. I also awarded a grant of EUR 10,000 to Level IT. This subside will allow this platform to further federate field initiatives, and centralize calls for volunteers. As you know, this is one of the difficulties encountered today. It will also make it possible to pool food donations. This tool is evolving and will give us the opportunity to respond more directly, faster and I hope more effectively to the various actors on the ground. Of course, there is no problem with the supply of FEAD products, which ensures the supply of commodities. There are, however, difficulties in purchasing certain basic products, such as milk. We also have problems with pasta, for some food banks. We are therefore working to find solutions in relation to certain categories of products. Of course, the Social Integration PPS continues to work on the development of the next FEAD market. Moreover, I have asked the PPS Social Integration for a permanent monitoring of the situation. The aim is to anticipate the needs which might arise from the food banks, which received 230 tonnes from Comeos and which were relieved of them. In any case, we remain extremely vigilant and on the bridge in order to avoid finding ourselves in a situation where we would be unable to feed the poor. In short, we remain very attentive. Questions were asked regarding the OCMWs. The OMCWs are, of course, faced with an increase in aid applications, especially for basic needs such as food aid. In order to respond to this urgency, I immediately released a grant of EUR 3 million for the OMCWs. This grant will serve to respond as flexibly as possible - it is important in the times we know - and in a personalized way to the requests of the beneficiaries, whether they are already known to the CPAS or new applicants. On a more technical level, this subsidy is distributed among the CPAS according to the same distribution key as determined by the Royal Decree on activation and social participation: 75 % calculated on the basis of the number of beneficiaries of integration income or equivalent aid and 25 % on the basis of the number of beneficiaries of the increased assistance. In this case, a circular was sent to all CPAS to clarify the modalities of this intervention. This subside helps to meet the needs of people who do not have or have more access to food banks, for example, for transport reasons or because of the closure of distribution points. It also supports several types of initiatives such as home meal delivery, the purchase of food parcels, the use of food vouchers, and reimbursement on presentation of purchase invoices in food stores. As several people's representatives point out, many people are facing a decline in their income. The OMCW remains the place where they can get the necessary help. Perhaps they are somewhat forgotten in thanks and tributes, but we should also thank all CPAS staff for all the work they do in these exceptional and particularly difficult circumstances. They're at the front every day, too. The OMCWs are organised in such a way that they remain accessible in order to ensure the continuity of their mission. We have also worked with the Social Integration PPS to advise all CPAS on the measures to be taken to ensure that staff are as protected as possible, in terms of social investigation, home visitation, while of course ensuring that a permanence is always open. This is also what these bilateral meetings with CPAS federations serve to give them the opportunity to refer to a number of frequently asked questions. We update them with the Social Integration PPS and they allow CPAS to be guided for the continuity of their mission, but also to ensure that their staff are fully protected. We must do our utmost to protect these actors from social support. Madam President, I hope, through my answers, that I have met all the questions that were transmitted to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u52	Madam President, I now come to the specific questions put by Mrs Lanjri and Mr De Vuyst. The corona crisis clearly has an impact on the entire Belgian population. A great deal of support measures are being taken from the various governments as a socio-economic response. To Mrs Lanjri's question, I can answer that there is indeed a broad question of setting up a task force for vulnerable groups. We received this question from the BAPN, the Support Center and the Federation of OCMWs. Several poverty organisations and other associations also highlighted the need for research and called for attention to be paid to the impact of measures on the most vulnerable groups in the crisis. The question of whether such a task force is a good idea is therefore something I can only answer in the affirmative. The task force is effective and necessary. Today we see that more and more people are knocking on the door of the OMCW or addressing the food banks. In response to Mr. From Vuyst, which was written in French, we can say that we have already taken a series of measures such as extending the federal scheme of 250 reception and accommodation places for homeless people in operation in Brussels until 31 May 2020. This structure is managed by the Belgian Red Cross. Users are provided with supervised accommodation and medical and social facilities. They have access to laundry facilities and hygiene products. They are entitled to breakfast and a hot meal at lunchtime and in the evening. One measure is also intended to support the creation of containment spaces, as directed by Sciensano VOCID-19, from April 1 to May 31. The beneficiaries of this grant are organisations from the cities of Antwerp, Ghent, Charleroi and Liège. In addition, we have already taken the necessary steps to create a task force in order to pay attention to people who pass through the meshes of the net, in terms of support measures. We are thinking of people living in poverty, the elderly and people with disabilities. This task force will be assisted by the Working Group on Social Impact COVID-19 for technical and scientific analyses. There is also a consultation group that will provide relevant input from the field. It will consist of experts from civil society organisations such as the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men and the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities. My cabinet will chair the task force together with the cabinet of colleague Ducarme. Regional ministers will also be represented. The task force requires an interfederal approach, which deals with important levers, both at federal and regional level. Furthermore, representatives of the PPS Social Integration and the FPS Social Security also participate and possibly scientific experts are invited. We will try to get the experts, policy makers and people in the field to come up with constructive and feasible solutions as quickly and efficiently as possible. This morning, by the way, a positive IKW took place that will set the tax force in motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u53	Thank you, Madam Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, for your reply, I ask you to respect the time limit of one minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u54	I have two more concerns: the budget for the food banks and the global budget of EUR 3 million for the OMCWs. Well, there's a little concern about that. In the larger cities there is a fear that this amount will be insufficient, especially in the smaller ones there is a fear that it will not be eligible for part of that budget. There are a lot of questions about this. We also get a lot of poignant stories about working students who lose their income because of the corona measures. That's what keeps them from getting around. I wondered whether it would be possible to provide for a number of more flexible measures for applications to the OMCW, and to temporarily waive the parental maintenance obligation. This could be a major step forward for working students who are now experiencing problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u55	At the beginning of the crisis, and certainly the lockdown, much has to be done at the same time. But it was, of course, predictable that the most vulnerable would also be the most affected. It is therefore a good thing that this interfederal task force has now been set up. It is also good, Minister, that you have a flexible framework for subsidies from the OMCWs. They are close to the citizen and know best what the citizen needs. These are all curative measures. We will also have to bear in mind when we are going to have to deal with the financial hangover of this crisis. That remains very important. I would also like to ask that, after the crisis, or when it is decreasing in intensity, it be properly evaluated whether the local authorities can keep their heads above water. Aid applications will increase, not only for material but also for financial support. Local authorities also have re-launch plans, need to shift budgets. This must be carefully monitored in order to see whether it will all be financially viable in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u56	Thank you to both ministers for their reply. The corona virus affects us all, but we can also be sure that it affects the most vulnerable among us, such as people in poverty, people with disabilities or the elderly. I am therefore very pleased that the proposal of the Belgian network has been taken up. I asked for a task force to be set up for these vulnerable groups. This task force should make it possible, together with the regions, to act in a coordinated manner and to evaluate the current measures. It is good that additional resources have been provided for the food banks and the OCMWs, but this may not yet be enough. I myself live in Antwerp and we see that the applications for living wages have already doubled. These are new vulnerable groups who were previously unknown to the OCMW, for example those who had a small job, worked part-time, or who mainly did interim work and watch that disappear. It is very important for them that they can now be taken care of by the OMCW. It is also good that additional measures have been taken for homeless people. This is important in the context of public health, but also, of course, because homeless people cannot stay in their homes. For example, these additional funds provide for additional shelter for homeless people. The city often still has to concentrate, because this is not enough. I hope that you will be able to follow this closely with the task force for the most vulnerable. I'm counting on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u57	Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answers, I am pleased to learn of the establishment of a working group with the actors on the ground. I think it is indeed important to feed the thinking and recommendations, but it is also important to have coordination between the different levels of power. We know, therefore, that with the crisis, new people are now getting unemployment and I think that this number is going to increase – for example, by adding those who are now in economic unemployment because they have a 30% loss of their wages, and it is often the small wages that are likely to fall on CPAS tomorrow. I therefore hear this envelope, which has been released, and it will be necessary, above all, to assess whether the resources are sufficient. It will also be necessary to carry out an evaluation after the crisis, so that the impact on communal finances is not too great, so as not to put these finances at risk. I will come back with these questions before you, thank you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u58	Mr Minister, I am reassured to hear that, depending on the monitoring and the actors on the ground, the good ones, the question of these food vouchers is clearly on the agenda. It was very important for us, especially for the rural world, which sometimes has great difficulties in getting to a place to pick up a food parcel. So we thought it was valuable to be able to adapt to these situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u59	Are there other people who still wish to speak in this second debate? Mrs. Moscufo, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u60	Madam Chair, I would like to thank the workers of the House and I have a special thought for those who are on the front line today. The subject we were interested in today, on the basis of the minister's answer, was the question of poverty and I must tell you that I hear things coming up. In any case, returns and our concrete practice – because we are also actors in the concrete fight against coronavirus, among other things with our medical homes but also with the solidarity that is organised in the neighborhoods – we find that it is thanks to the solidarity of the citizens that many people who are in poverty today manage to keep their heads out of the water. It is therefore really time for the government to be, structurally, much more ambitious in the fight against poverty and to take much more ambitious decisions. I am thinking, for example, of the full reimbursement of health care for the most vulnerable, but also of the freezing of electricity bills and the significant increase in replacement income. That is what I wanted to say in this topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, if there are no other comments or comments, I suggest that you follow up on the third debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u62	As you know, this committee is a joint committee with the Committee on the Economy. My distinguished colleague Groen, chairman of the Committee on the Economy, has just joined us. Before giving him the floor, I repeat the operation chosen from the beginning in order to work in a homogeneous way. Two ministers will be present for this debate. We proceed with all the questions, according to the rules that we had set ourselves: each author of a question has a speaking time of two minutes. Anyone who has tabled two or more questions has three minutes to speak. Members are reminded that they may refer to the written text of their oral questions. I would like to clarify the two options again. First option: you use these three minutes to make a summary and the latter will be included in the report. Second option: you want all of your questions to be taken into account in the proceedings. In this case, you simply say that you refer to the written questions. If you make a mix, that's what you said during the three minutes that will appear in the report. Pay attention to this element. I am now speaking specifically to the two ministers. Can we consider that each questionr asks all of his questions, whether it is to one or the other, and that you will answer at the end, as you have just done? If this is acceptable to everyone, I would like to remind you that the author is asking all his questions at the same time and that the speaking time for the replies is one minute per author. If there is no comment or comment, I give the floor to my colleague-president. I would also like to thank the services and all those present who have helped us a lot, supported us and referred us to this rather special committee. I wish you a good afternoon. Take care of yourself and others!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u63	Mr President, I have tabled six oral questions for this committee, which I shall briefly consider. My first question concerns the reimbursement of cancelled journeys as a result of the corona crisis. We have found that European Commissioner Didier Reynders has a different opinion on the credit voucher system contained in the ministerial decision. Are you still in favour of the approach? With regard to the rent and energy invoices of shopkeepers, can you take a measure that meets both the tenants and the landlords by calling in force majeure, which would stop a number of invoices. Another question relates to consumer credit and the new banking regime during the corona crisis. We note that people who have to use a consumer credit are often the financially weaker. Have they also been considered? Why not? Can this still be considered? Then I have one more question about the shopping visits. We note that many shopkeepers take as many measures as possible to make it as safe as possible for consumers. We see that one store takes different measures than the other. I am thinking, for example, of disinfecting the shopping carts and the payment terminals and providing disinfectant gels. It doesn't happen everywhere. Can this be mandatory for all shops? I also had a question about the economic recovery after the corona crisis, which I tabled in plenary last week. At that time, the Conference of Presidents decided that my question should not be included in the debate, which was unfortunate. I am sure that in your presentation you will discuss that recovery after the corona crisis, which I hope will come as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u64	Mr Van Lommel, we will keep the interplays before the end. At that time, you will have the floor again. I now give the floor to Mrs Anneleen Van Bossuyt, who will speak through videoconference. It has a number of questions and has a three-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u65	Mr President, it is good for everyone to look for solutions. What we're going through now is unseen. So I understand that it is not easy. Nevertheless, we must be vigilant. This is important in today's uncertain times. It is up to the public authorities to ensure as much certainty and clarity as possible, both for consumers and for businesses. I will give a brief summary of the questions I had drawn up. Firstly, several questions related to the voucher system introduced for the cancelled package travel. The vouchers have been granted provisionally for a period of 3 months, i.e. until 20 June 2020. However, many consumers also cancel all their travels for the summer holidays. Does the voucher system also apply to those trips? Secondly, Mr Van Lommel has already referred to the fact that the regulation is or falls under European law, in which Commissioner Reynders said that it should not be an obligation on the consumer. Part of this has already been met, by ensuring that a refund can also be made if the voucher is not used within 12 months. However, the contradiction remains. What happens if the booked trip would be cheaper than the previously booked trip? Will the difference be repaid? There are also many providers of recreational and tourist accommodation in Belgium that are not covered by the umbrella of package travel. They therefore do not fall within the scope of the voucher scheme and try to reach the consumer independently. I am thinking, for example, of organizers of accommodations who offer their services via platforms such as booking.com. Do you also work for them on a voucher system? Consumers also often cancel flights on their own initiative because they fear health risks or because in certain places there is much less to do than in the past. In principle, they will not be entitled to reimbursement. Will there be measures to this end? Moreover, many airlines refuse to refund the ticket when the airline itself decides not to allow flights to continue. Have you taken any steps with regard to these airlines, such as KLM? I also have a question about higher prices in the supermarkets. Of course, this has to do with market forces, supply and demand. In the meantime, discounts have been allowed again, but I would ask you to call on the Price Observatory to keep an eye on whether supermarkets do not raise their prices more than is necessary. What initiatives have you taken since the last Price Observatory report in 2017 to bring consumer prices more into line?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u66	Minister, the current crisis brings new, sometimes unexpected, consequences every day, which require a constant adjustment of the measures taken by the National Security Council. Among these consequences, some denounce unfair competition between traders. While stores specializing in certain types of products have been forced to close, other general stores can continue to sell the same products. Household appliances, toys, electronic equipment, to name a few, continue to be sold in some supermarkets. Some voices called for the closure of non-essential spokes to avoid unfair competition and reduce the length of time they were in the stores. Minister, how do you look at this proposal? The Belgian Gardening Association has, for its part, pulled the alarm bell. Large areas are allowed to sell plants and flowers, while nurseries must keep doors closed at a time of the year crucial for their financial viability. They therefore ask for the possibility of opening, as has been the case in France for a few days, while respecting the conditions of social distancing. Minister, could you accept this request from us? How do you look at such situations? Do you believe that this is indeed unfair competition? Finally, several fora are heavily impacted by the crisis. How to justify the possibility for the fries to remain open for sale at the counter while the fora and the travelling merchants owners of food trucks are not allowed to work? Could you allow them to take over partially – for the food part – their activities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u67	Mr President, Minister, I believe that a perspective should be given to the economy. I believe that people's care is already largely regulated, but I would very much like companies to be able to open gradually from 19 April onwards. For example, they could organise collections by appointment for individuals for non-essential matters. Now the individuals who are not at work are waiting for a package that they might be able to collect themselves, while they now have to pay expensive transport costs. If one works by appointment, it can never cause traffic jams, as we saw when the container parks were reopened. A very important question is what about the banks. Is that finalized now? Credit insurers have a very important role to play. They must provide support and ensure the continuity of businesses. As far as vouchers are concerned, I agree with what has already been said, except that not only the consumers but also the agencies will not be reimbursed. One can use the voucher for another trip, but if a travel agency offers a customized tour and the customer chooses not to book to the same destination, then all that work is for the trash can. This is not feasible for the travel agencies. If the customer had chosen a particular destination, he would better use the voucher for the same destination, even if it is a year later. That would help any sector. That's something that's problematic for those companies. As far as foreign workers are concerned, you can say that we can use our temporary unemployed to do so. If this is a job that allows it, it is true that as much as possible, but in the construction sector, for example, foreign workers are often skilled workers who cannot immediately be replaced by people who are now unemployed. How can foreign workers reach our country if we could employ them in a safe situation? Now everything's shutting down.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u68	Mr President, I would like to speak very briefly on my questions. It also concerns a number of suggestions that have already been made to the government and which, I hope, sound familiar. First of all, there's the story of the prizes. That was also cited by colleagues. It is clear that a situation such as this has an impact on price formation. That is why I would like to suggest that we entrust the Prize Observatory with a special task. The Code of Economic Law allows that. However, this possibility has not yet been used. It seems to us that this crisis is an opportunity to do so and to intervene where necessary. Secondly, it is also about something that I have already heard from a number of colleagues, namely the moratorium on consumer credits. A very big effort has been made for citizens who have a loan for a home. However, consumer credit also deserves our attention, especially in order to avoid over-indebtedness in the future. Thirdly, I come to the extension of subscriptions, gift certificates and warranty periods. This has already been answered for a piece and for a piece this has already been remediated. That seems to us to be an important measure. Finally, I myself am a fan of the transition to a cashless society. One cannot do that on one, two, three, but in this crisis one sees that transition is accelerated. It has many advantages. There are, of course, also issues that electronic payment services have and cannot use them today. Then that payment must be suspended. That's one last suggestion I'd like to make. In the long term, however, we must reflect on how we can move forward towards a cashless society. That is a very interesting debate to conduct post-corona.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u69	The 48 questions were put to Minister Muylle. We will continue with the questions to Minister Ducarme, as we have just agreed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u70	Mr President, I wish to put my question because I have slightly adapted my question to current events. A number of things have already emerged which may even be part of the answer to my question. The agricultural sector indicates a shortage of labour to be expected for the harvest of cherries, strawberries and fruits in general, asparagus and other seasonal labour-intensive activities. The entire agri-food chain employs more than 130,000 people in our country. For comparison, the chemical sector is clocking at 150 000 jobs. When a lot of people suddenly disappear at the beginning of the chain, that obviously makes a huge difference. The added value of the agrobusiness complex was 8.3 billion euros in 2016, which is about the same as the added value of the Belgian chemical sector in the same year. It is therefore one of the strong pillars of our economy. In particular, the cultivation of fruit, asparagus and related products is also important for our exports. However, the sectors fear that large parts of their harvest will be lost due to the lack of sufficient labour. Like our country, France has similar problems in attracting sufficient labour for agriculture and horticulture as a result of the corona crisis. However, following a call from the French Agriculture Minister Didier Guillaume, 200,000 people have now applied to join agriculture. Minister, do you recognise these problems for the sectors concerned? Have measures already been taken to remedy labour shortages? What measures will be taken to remedy labour shortages? Will you launch a call in our country along the lines of France? Will the planned measures and the measures to be taken be sufficient to find sufficient labour for the sector? The initiative of the platform, which includes the agricultural sector, was mentioned earlier, with the possibility of involving job students. I have not been able to include that in my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u71	The second question 55004357C belongs to Mrs Frieda Gijbels. She informed me that she could not be present, but that her question was integrated into Mrs Houtmeyers' question. I assume that's what happened. If that has not happened, then the replies can be returned to it. The Minister will probably give the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u72	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the services for the organisation of this commission partially via video-conferencing, in the current context. My first question concerns the right of the independents to walker. On March 19, we made a historic vote in the House not only on the confidence given to the government but also on unanimous measures to provide replacement income to those self-employed who are affected by the coronavirus crisis. Mr. Minister, you have had the right initiative, then, to send out an interpretative circular to the social insurance funds. Indeed, some of the information to the members of these caisses was not very clear, in particular on the question of the seven days of successive closure for certain professions such as booksellers or hairdressers. All of this came to an end later. You then announced in the press measures for the self-employed on a complementary basis that were not included in the first operative part of the law that we voted for. It was also in the press that I read the amounts. On the other hand, I have no news of the legal basis. Has a decision been taken in the Council of Ministers? Is there a royal decree or a ministerial decree? If so, could we receive it? With regard to the extension of this bridge right in the context of the VOCID-19, can you give us some figures on the number of independents who have made use of this device? I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the self-employed who did not have to close their business are nevertheless recording a huge drop in their turnover because they no longer see customers because of the confinement. What about a whole series of professions that are in this situation? How can they be helped? Although regional aid is available, it also does not help all self-employed and all businesses that are not closed but have very few clients. I also draw your attention to the paramedical professions. In any case, in Wallonia and Brussels, the answer I have obtained is that the legal basis does not provide for a regional premium. This question is not simple. I am not asking you for a definitive commitment, but for you to insist on the situation of these paramedical professions, which will not, in any case, benefit from these regional aids in Wallonia and Brussels. With regard to farmers, the United Nations and the World Trade Organization draw attention to the risk of food shortages, the supply of essential products. How do you react to these warnings? Are there negotiations at European level to deal with them? As far as gardening is concerned, those with a turnover in food or animal feed can open, while others can not. This is the full season for those who are really specialized in seeds, seeds, plants. They ask that, depending on the deconfinity which, it is hoped, is emerging, they be able to reopen their activities. This is the full season for both professionals and people who have time to make their garden.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u73	Mr. Delizée, we must conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u74	Have you taken any initiatives to support small producers, particularly milk producers, in relation to the large-scale distribution sector? And there's the question of seasonal fruit. You can tell us more.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u75	Minister, I have two questions. The first concerns the closure of markets. Many small producers find themselves cut off from a significant share of their income. We have read and heard comments from some farmers who were questioning us and telling us that their direct sales are increasing. This creates new opportunities for some. But for others, the flow of their production is a huge problem. They suffer a significant loss of income. My question is very simple. Have you been able to monitor the needs of small farmers? What answers have you been able to give them? Is it possible to organise a targeted reopening of markets, or other such solutions, for direct sale? My second question concerns the security of food supply in our country. FAO, WTO and WHO have sounded the alarm at the global level. These organisations note that the closure of borders, disease and confinement of workers cause significant tensions in the international supply chain. At Belgian level, it seems that we do not have to fear food shortages, but we are at the beginning of an important agricultural production season. These days, marketers, farmers, farmers and all actors in agri-food systems make decisions that engage our production capacity in the coming months or even the full year. Minister, what about the monitoring of prices, stocks and supply flows in Belgium? Has the National Security Council assessed available stocks? Is there an assessment of intrabelgian food supply and demand? Is there an assessment of future imports, particularly from Spain and Italy, which are our major suppliers of fruit and vegetables? Is there an inventory of crops and additional areas available?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u76	Minister, the measures that we adopted at the last plenary session in which we were physically present do not apply to supplementary self-employed persons or to self-employed persons who are pensioners and continue to have a part of their activity as an independent person. Last weekend, you announced additional measures for supplementary self-employed persons and pensioners. Could you confirm this information, as well as the figures that have been announced in the press? How will these measures be implemented? Will royal decrees be adopted? Will legislative changes be necessary? These measures are important and expected by the field. A great number of self-employed people are now in great difficulty. My second question concerns the potential bankruptcies that will result from the current crisis, whether in the weeks or in the months ahead for entrepreneurs who will not be able to recover after this crisis. You have announced in the press an initiative concerning the introduction of a moratorium on the pronouncement of bankruptcy, which would have the effect of freezing all applications for bankruptcy. Can you confirm that? To what extent? What mechanisms would be put in place? These procedures are important, because there is no question of abandoning the independent and independent people in the midst of the crisis. We must ensure that there are as few bankruptcies as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u77	Mr Minister, it should be recalled that from the beginning of the health crisis, you have been very reactive and have taken several measures which, as can be seen today, constitute a real breath of oxygen for hundreds of thousands of self-employed people forced - voluntarily or not - to cease their activities. With regard to bridge law, it must be noted that uncertainties still remain, and even amalgams are established between federal and regional measures. Although adaptations are taking place in the Walloon Region, it is less clear in the Brussels Region. As you said, minister, the important thing is not only to bring a breath of oxygen to our self-employed, but above all to provide them with means of subsistence in this difficult time, when they have had to stop any activity. Finally, some categories of self-employed people still have questions. I am thinking in particular of complementary self-employed people, but also of pensioners who continue to work. They are highly uncertain about their income, which constitutes a substantial part of their purchasing power. It is therefore necessary to take stock of the situation. Minister, can you tell us how many bridge applications have been made to date and how much you estimate the aid that will be granted to Belgian independents? Given the uncertainty of some, can you confirm that, with regard to the aid granted, there are no restrictions on certain sectors, including the self-employed active in the medical and paramedical professions? What is the difference between the federal level and the Regions in this area? Last weekend, the press reported that bridge law would also be open to complementary self-employed people. Do you confirm this information? If so, what will be the modalities? Finally, can pensioners who are still self-employed also use them?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u78	Mr President, I have three questions to ask Mrs Muylle. Minister, my first question concerns individuals and the risk of an increase in over-indebtedness. There were 335,000 people registered at the Centrale des crédits aux particuliers in 2019, representing 3.4% of the population. This figure was on the way to falling, and it was steadily decreasing over the years. Of course, the coronavirus crisis is likely to dramatically increase this figure. The government has, of course, taken steps to help the self-employed, but also individuals with the possible postponement of mortgage credit, suspensions of water and energy cuts. However, there are many voices asking how to avoid this increase in the over-indebtedness of some individuals. Minister, can you remind us of the measures taken to reduce the risk of over-indebtedness for individuals? Are you considering additional assistance for individuals who are already over-indebted? Do you intend to take other measures such as those requested by several organisations, including CPAS, mutual societies or trade unions? My second question relates to cybercrime cases that have increased since the beginning of this pandemic. Counterfeit protective masks, false hydro-alcoholic gels are sold, and unauthorized antivirals are also circulating. For example, Europol seized 34,000 counterfeit masks, EUR 14 million of fake sanitary products for March alone. Does the FPS Economy closely monitor these potential scams? Is there European coordination in this regard? If so, what steps can be taken to identify these cases? In the third point, I relay the concerns of gardening, nurseries and other horticultural stores. Like the majority of companies, those intended for private individuals have had to close their doors. The stores I'm talking about, being specialized stores and not essential, had to close. From 15 March to 15 June, this sector, which only operates during the spring, may see its turnover fall literally. This concerns 80-85% of the figure, since most of it is concentrated over this three-month period. My questions are the same, Madam Minister. Given the size of this type of store, and the fact that most are also outside, it would be easy for them to respect social distances. Are you considering the partial reopening of these companies? In Germany and the Netherlands, they never had to close their doors. In Italy and France, they were able to reopen. You will understand that spring and good weather are there, so all these specialized stores are very worried. What other measure could help specifically those stores that no longer have the right to sell plants or flowers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u79	Now we come to the two interplays.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u80	Madam Minister, we note that many retailers who specialise in the retail sector will suffer serious economic losses even after the corona measures. This is even more the case for commercial businesses offering seasonal articles to the general public. I am thinking, for example, of fashion shops, but it can go much further than just those shops. Many sectors attract the alarm bell, because this time should be the summum of income in various shops. They point out that the solders will be arriving very soon, if the corona measures were to be over soon. As a result, there is a very high risk of a very high level of competition in the retail sector. Those shops will not have had the chance to sell their spring and summer collection at a full price. The call is therefore increasing to further extend the barrier period, but also to postpone the solder period accordingly. It would not go into 1 July, but it would go into 1 August. In addition, I do not believe that it is the intention that after the end the shopkeepers should be left with a very large part of their collections. That is why I dare to argue in favour of postponing the solder period not only until 1 August, but also to extend it. In addition, seasonal collections are more sensitive than various other products. We must certainly be vigilant about this. It is a sector which is very exposed to a high risk, especially because all these collections have to be paid for. A lot of these collections have been paid for by now. That is why we held this discussion and will also table a motion for a recommendation. In this motion we ask the government to take the necessary measures for all retailers selling seasonal articles. The intention is to extend the solder period one month later and therefore also to extend it by one month.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u81	I have sent a simple motion to the committee secretariat and I would like to table it as a result of Mr Van Lommel's motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u82	Normally, that happens after the Minister's reply. You give all the confidence before you hear the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u83	I'm too fast. Of course, I have a blind faith in the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u84	Madam Secretary, the corona measures have an impact on almost all sectors of our economy. However, some sectors are hit harder by it. For example, the ornamental sector, which achieves the bulk of its turnover in the spring, is particularly hard hit. As a result of the lockdown, the sector's turnover has stopped completely, while the costs for ornamental growers and garden centres continue to go on. The plants still need to be cared for. Sales can often not be postponed, as certain plants can only be sold within a limited period of time. In the absence of sales, important parts of the currently marketable plant stock will have to be destroyed, representing a loss of months of hard labor. The domino effect has put the whole sector on the brink of completion, it sounds like Union Fleurs. The natural plant cycle cannot be paused during the duration of the crisis, which inevitably leads to the destruction of stocks on a massive scale. In the short term, emergency financial support is needed to compensate producers and the chain for the dramatic loss of income, stocks and economic activity. Strategies are also needed in the medium and long term to ensure the viability and restart of the ornamental sector after the corona crisis. In a message dated 3 April, it can be read that the Boerenbond already calculated the turnover loss at 135 million euros. Day after day, the losses continue. The ornamental farming sector achieves 80% of the annual turnover between mid-March and mid-May. On sale, the sector is now also facing competition from imported flowers offered in supermarkets and some garden center chains, which may remain open because animal feed is also being sold. Minister, the water is not on the lips of the ornamental sector, it is almost immersed in it and it has to jump above the water in order to catch its breath. Without decisive and rapid intervention, bankruptcy threatens many companies. If, after the corona crisis, we want to maintain a significant ornamental sector in our country, we must now take action. Do you share my opinion on the difficult situation in which the ornamental sector is located by the lockdown? What measures will be taken to avoid a total loss to the sector? Will it be considered to partially remove the lockdown for the ornamental and garden centres, possibly with restrictive measures, as is the case in the food sector? Can a special emergency fund be set up to support the ornamental farming sector? To sum up, what policy will you pursue and what measures will you take to ensure that the sector can survive the current existential crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u85	Are there any Members who would like to take the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u86	Mr President, I should like to refer to Question No 5, by Mr Beazley, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u87	Mr President, I am trying to answer quickly. We will provide the answers in full, so that you can read them. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the solders and the perimeter. There was an interplay about this and there were questions from Mrs Dierick, Mrs Houtmeyers and Mr Friart. Indeed, I have received a question from the Mode Union and from Creamoda to postpone the start of the forthcoming solder period until 1 August and extend the barrier period. I have questioned the NSZ, UNIZO, UCM, Comeos and Test Purchase. Most of them have replied to me and Mr Ducarme has received the response of Test Achats, for the matters for which we have shared competence. I held a video conference with everyone on Friday for a state of affairs. I asked for an opinion from the Central Council for Business, which gave me a few minutes ago. I'm clearly sensing two currents. One states that a decision is to be taken very quickly, at least on 1 August. The reasons were cited by you. In particular, we want to be able to organise the further planning of the season. There is a need for a level playing field, which often comes out. This demand comes from a lot of middle class organisations and from some 80 Belgian fashion manufacturers. In addition, there is the position of Comeos: wait until everything is open and restarted. I also feel the division between them to wait or to be able to take action very quickly. Others want to wait again. It is up to Mr Ducarme and me to look at the necessary arguments pro and contra. I have already heard Mr Ducarme in the French-speaking press about this and I myself said on Sunday on the Seventh Day that I would be open to moving it to 1 August. However, I am asked to depart from European legislation. As members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, you will of course know that we are the only country with a barrier period. In fact, there have already been statements at various levels about this period. European tying, liquidations and fairs are also possible. Today I find it difficult to deviate from European legislation, although I am convinced that European coordination is very important. The Netherlands has no solder legislation and France has a different regime. A European agreement, a sort of gentlemen's agreement, would therefore certainly be appropriate here. I'll see what I can do. I will make a decision in the near future on this matter. I have no information on what other countries intend to do, knowing that they all have their own legal regime. It seems to me that it is premature to decide today on winter sales. I would now like to focus on the forthcoming solder period and decide on a postponement. That's also what I can make decisions about in this power of attorney government. With regard to the winter of next year and the following summer, I know that there are several initiatives in Parliament and I leave it to your committee to work on them. That seems like a nice theme to me to address. I will only make a proposal within the power of attorney government for this summer period and then Parliament can play its role for the rest of the legislation. As far as events are concerned, a question from Mrs Depraetere, according to my information, events can be insured against calamities or cancellations. I can't tell you to what extent that happens. It depends on the policy conditions. We understand that bigger players do this. Well, there's a price tag on that. There is no disaster fund for the event sector today. Aid to enterprises has also become a regional issue. The decision to support the sector was already taken on 19 March. The ministerial decision allows to issue a voucher for an event cancelled for the sake of corona instead of a refund, if that event is later reorganised. This system is subject to conditions. The holder of the voucher may attend the event later. If he is unable to do so for work or for health reasons, the ministerial decision provides for a refund. The big festivals ask to be able to go to two years because one year is very short for them. We are looking at how the ministerial decision can provide a solution to this problem. There were a lot of questions about the travel sector. The questions of air passengers and buses are laid down in European regulations and the Minister for Mobility is in charge of these regulations. It is his responsibility to answer questions about cancellations for airlines and buses. The Regulation does not contain provisions on the cancellation of airline tickets by the traveller himself. It is the general terms and conditions under which the ticket was purchased that will determine whether there is a right to refund or rebook. For cheap tickets this is usually not the case. No specific measures have been taken. Consumers who have booked a travel service themselves, e.g. a hotel or transport, and who want to cancel as a result of the corona crisis, will have to check the contractual terms of the contract. Sometimes they provide for an unpredictable right of cancellation. Sometimes it stipulates that there is no cancellation or only payment of a cancellation fee. It will therefore depend on whether or not the consumer is reimbursed. It is not my intention to set up a voucher system for this purpose. The reason for this is very simple. For hotels and tourist accommodation there is no insolvency insurance today. The same applies to groups or schools that have not booked a package trip but have themselves purchased services from the different travel service providers. They have separately made a train reservation and searched hotels. In their case, where a package agreement cannot be implemented for the sake of corona, the tour operator shall assign a voucher to the value of the amount or amounts already paid by the traveller. The tour operator must comply with the terms of the Ministerial Decision of 19 March 2020. With that voucher the traveller can pay later, when he concludes a new agreement with that tour operator within the year. If the voucher is not used within the year, the amount is refundable after 12 months, at the request of the consumer. He's got six months to do this. It is also important to know that, exceptionally, we have also had insolvency insurance played in travel cheques. This means, in concrete terms, that in the event of problems there is coverage from the Guarantee Fund Travel, and that is not insignificant. It is also important that a travel cheque should give rise to a right vis-à-vis the tour operator. It cannot impose any restrictions. The traveller is therefore not obliged to spend the amount at once. So if one chooses a cheaper journey, then the balance remains. If this is not used up after a year, this sum can also be recovered after a year. The traveller may apply to the Reizen Disputes Committee for disputes. Sometimes reference is made to France. It is said that this or that is done in France. France has different legislation in this area. However, France has done the following, and I do not agree with that. They also have those 6 and 12 months extra, just like us. However, they argue that the tour operator is obliged to offer an alternative journey within 3 months. If they are accepted, they are accepted. If you do not accept it, you can get your money back after 12 months. No one knows today what's gonna happen in three months. I believe that this is how the consumer is taken into account in an irresponsible story. If you say no to an offer, you have to wait until 12 months. We have made the full amount, the travel cheque, available to the consumer. He can see for himself all year. I assume that the travel sector will make a lot of commercial proposals to warm him up for that journey. That seems to me to be better than an alternative that is to take or leave, in which one gets one's money back after 12 months if one does not accept it. A lot of people also contact me, especially those who work with custom travel. These are people who, for example, organise a trip to South Africa and have already paid for the accommodation and transport, who have made commitments in that country. That's different from TUI. TUI can play more with those things. That is where the regulations are limited today. There too, the travel cheque must be able to be used freely. Here's what I'm assuming. If I plan a trip to Vietnam today and have already paid for a piece, I will probably be happy to make that trip within the year. It is very important that the sector consults with consumers to see how this journey can be offered again. If there is no comparison, however, after 12 months we have the right to ask for a refund. There I am bound by European regulations. It's not unimportant to do this either. That is how I come to Mr Reynders' comment. There was a letter from Mr Reyners saying that what Belgium is doing is not in line with European legislation. We then added the refund after 12 months. I can only say that I am pleased that the spirits are getting a lot wiser in this matter. I have to say today that the Belgian scheme was taken over by France and now by the Netherlands. Germany takes over the Belgian scheme, as does Lithuania. I do not know whether our country should be a guide country, but there are many countries in Europe that are doing the same thing as we are doing. Commissioner Reynders has asked this week to apply European legislation flexibly. He also asks for a refund after a certain period. What we have done in Belgium is the line that Commissioner Reynders also applies. I suspect that many other European countries with the same system will follow. Mr Van Lommel had a question about the energy bills of shopkeepers. You know that you can always reduce 20% through the monthly invoices. The suppliers are asked to do this for sure. I was also told that no collective action will be taken, but several energy suppliers are prepared to review advances with their customers on individual demand in relation to non-consumption. You know better than I do that part of the energy bill doesn't go to the energy supplier but to a lot of other things. That must also be taken into account. As far as telecoms are concerned, the information I have about the actions of telecom operators is that communicated via the media. I welcome any initiative on the part of businesses to be flexible towards consumers in these difficult times, when many of them are seeing their incomes cut. The same applies to your questions about the Internet, Mrs Dierick and Mrs Reuter. The corona crisis will undoubtedly also have an impact on electronic commerce. In many conversations with professional federations or entrepreneurs I ask about e-commerce activities. There are differences between sectors, but it is currently about 15% of trade, with the big players involved. The Belgian players tell me that they stay at about 9%. Some say they sell more, others say that e-commerce sales remain stable and do not grow further. So 91 % is still bought physically. It is therefore not unimportant to pay attention to this. Several questions were asked about everything that has to do with the registration in the KBO. I've prepared a KB. The aim is to implement it as soon as possible, so that companies that are going to carry out their activities differently as a result of the corona measures do not have to temporarily adjust their registration in the FBO, but this will have to be done by means of a proxy decision or legislative proposal. These include, for example, restaurants that set up a caterer service with take-away meals or companies that sell at a distance. With regard to cybercrime and online scams, a new section has been inserted within the FPS Economy contact point to report problems related to the coronavirus pandemic. There are a lot of things about this in the text that I am going to give you. The Economic Inspectorate takes measures together with the police and the public prosecutor to find solutions to this problem. There will also be international cooperation with Europol to do so. If you look at the text, you will see that European Commissioner Didier Reynders has also taken the initiative to empower the platforms. It also called for effective and effective cooperation between the supervisory authorities. He can also count on the cooperation of our economic inspections. Mr Van den Burre, Mr Calvo, with regard to the legal guarantee, I do not immediately see the need to amend the legal guarantee rules. They will, of course, remain fully applicable. If there are problems there because certain repairs can't be done in time under warranty, then I think these measures should be taken by the sector. Mr Calvo, I will continue with your question on subscriptions and gift vouchers. I'm getting a lot of questions about that. Most of the sectors I have asked about have already taken spontaneous action. I'm talking about Bongo, the restaurants and the meal checks. They're extending their period. Fitness centers are more sensitive. Some say they don't know when they'll be able to open again, but if they open, they'll give extra days or sessions and extend the subscriptions. There are already some decisions made. There is also a question about the possible reimbursement of unused turns on cards or of monthly fees. I believe that, together with the guarantee, this is part of the package of measures that will be taken in the relay phase. When the activities can be restarted, we will consider how we can then offer solutions specifically for certain sectors. I understand that consumers are having these questions today, but I'm asking for some patience. This is definitely gonna stay on my to-do list. Mrs Houtmeyers, you had a question about the hoteliers and, above all, about the problem of Booking.com. Booking.com is a very complex fact. There are bookings with or without a refund, which already block part of the amount on the Visa Card, and there are other bookings that are paid immediately. You refer to the fact that Booking.com would not comply with its contractual terms. If that were the case, it couldn't be. The terms of the contract state that a voucher or a travel cheque can be used, while Booking.com would pay back. Then it also seems logical to me that those affected should bring an action for a strike. Horeca federations could bring a group action against Booking.com. You're asking for an economical inspection. I'd love to, but the B2B legislation isn't here yet. She's on her way. If there is, the government can act there. The Belgian Competition Authority can do its thing there. We hope to be able to propose this legislation soon. I will certainly continue to monitor the progress made in this dossier. Then there are a lot of questions about unfair competition. It's about the garden centers. I also just heard that Ikea wants to open his pickup points to pick up furniture. Everyone's asking a lot. I will repeat what I said earlier in the Committee on Employment. It is not up to the Minister of Economy to do this. I'll listen and write down. My people are taking this to the Crisis Center. All questions will be submitted. The Crisis Centre and the experts, the representatives of the FPS, the various governments, CELEVAL, the health experts, provide advice. These opinions go to the National Security Council, in which both the federal government and the regional authorities are represented. There is a very clear position on the basis of the opinions. That's true for the garden centers. I also get a lot of questions about opening stores, ranging from the Bricos to the DIY business, Ikea and furniture stores. We are passing these questions on to the Crisis Centre, where I believe it is justified, but sometimes unjust, especially from a health point of view, to refuse to extend that ministerial decision. This will certainly be a subject of discussion for the experts in the coming week. I've also had a lot of questions about the rent. Following the sixth state reform, this legislation has become a regional competence. The question also arose as to the partial exemption from the property tax. But that has also become regional matter. Here too, I want to be careful. I often notice that small self-employed people rent a property and that that rental income is often also an income, in addition to the self-employed pension. Then there are the professionals, including the big real estate agencies, who are often also stockbroken. This seems to me to be a fair question. That is why I forwarded them to ERMG. This seems to me to be something of a priority for the Economic Risk Management Group to look at with all actors how to find a solution to this problem. Mr President, allow me to make a suggestion in this regard. There will be questions about ERMG. Perhaps you could invite Mr Vanthemsche or Mr Wunsch to explain their approach and the activities of their working groups. I think they are certainly prepared to do so. For example, ERMG also works extensively around food continuity, on which a powerpoint presentation already proposed in the government is ready. This can also be discussed in Parliament. Mrs Depraetere, you had a question about bicycle repairers. You have noticed that the ministerial decision was amended so that bicycle repairers can perform repairs and urgent repairs. A lot of questions have also been asked about consumer loans. My answer consists of two parts. In connection with mortgage credit, fellow Minister De Croo has concluded a charter with Febelfin. A legislative basis was needed, initially in order to exempt both capital and interest, and secondly in view of some formalities, which means that credit files with an electronic signature to be reviewed do not require physical relocation. An article about extra costs that I read this morning on the first page of the newspaper De Standaard did do me some frowning. We have received additional information on this. For individuals, it is always about interest and capital, which is important. Additional costs are not included in file costs, because those involved can choose to postpone their loan for six months. However, those who do not choose to do so, for example because of a high income or because the banks do not allow it, will logically see their monthly repayments increase for the remaining period. For that we must remain attentive. As far as credit to individuals is concerned, the suspension or extension of credit will only be included in the positive and not in the negative. The plant will offer a faithful representation of the loan for the future and the individual will not be registered as a bad payer. It's a very important element. I also get a lot of questions about consumer credit. Some want to postpone payment for three to six months. We are negotiating with the sector today. That is not an easy conversation, but we come to a basic agreement on renewal. Ladies and gentlemen, the subject is very much on the committee's agenda, so I intend to discuss consumer credit issues in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and to consider what measures we can take in the coming period. Last Saturday, we also agreed in the super-core cabinet that a number of dossiers could come to Parliament. The issue of consumer credit seems to me to be one of them, especially in view of the sensitivities that exist here; we can discuss this issue in committee over the next few weeks. Then I come to the questions about, among other things, the contactless payment. I was sorry that it took so long to raise the limit for contactless payments from EUR 25 to EUR 50, but with a daily limit of EUR 100, for which the PIN has to be entered. Apparently, that's all very complex. We must also pay attention to vulnerable people in connection with this measure. Today, however, we are in an exceptional period. The safety and hygiene conditions in which such transactions take place are important. Mr Calvo, you had a question about transaction costs. They depend very much on the partner with whom they work. Some have paid monthly or annual amounts and also pay per payment and operation. We can make individual agreements on this matter today. I have no intention of interfering today. I have already said it a few times here in committee, I really want clarity and transparency on all systems, such as cashless payment subscription formulas. We need transparency and clarity on this. Apart from corona, that's one of my plans on the agenda. Then I get everything that has to do with insurance. An agreement has been reached on postponing the payment of mortgage loans with related debt balance and fire insurance. With regard to other insurance, such as motor insurance, insured persons with payment difficulties as a result of the VOCID-19 crisis may contact their insurer or insurance intermediary for a solution tailored to their personal situation. For companies, there is the measure to deal with problems in the payment of certain insurance premiums, such as accidents at work and civil liability, through the payment of provisional contributions at the beginning of the year and the regularisation of premiums at the end of the year. I believe that such a measure is important, including for other insurance. If activities are to be discontinued, the person concerned may request a postponement until 30 September. The same applies to professional liability for doctors. I think it is important to look at the commitments made by the sector. The measures also cover collective coverage in the event of suspension of the employment contract. We are preparing a regulation to properly frame it. A working group was also set up with representatives of the credit insurers, the National Bank, Credendo and the Cabinets of myself, Mr De Croo and Mr Goffin, in which an intensive exchange of views was held on a proposal which will shortly be made known. I will be brief about everything that has to do with the prices of supermarkets, especially since the Economic Risk Management Group has included this point in the context of food continuity. The Price Observatory carried out analyses at three times for different consumer goods, i.e. not only for food but also for other product groups. You will see that we are going into more detail in the answer. I suggest that you raise that again through ERMG. There was a major impact on prices due to the ban on promotions and discounts. That's what we've been updating. At usury prices, we will be very strict. Today, we have already reported 48 cases since the beginning of March. The majority, 33 reports, concern oral masks and hand disinfectant gels. We have drawn up reports on this matter and will be very strict because I cannot allow usury prices to be charged at the end of the corona crisis for goods that are so important in the corona crisis. Mrs Verhelst, I have already spoken about consumer removals in the context of the crisis cell and the National Security Council. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already outlined very clearly the mandate of ERMG on a number of occasions, including during the plenary session. I therefore suggest that the committee invites the ERMG to clarify this matter. Mrs Verhelst and Mr Van Lommel had questions about the aspects of public health, such as the problem of one-and-a-half metres in social distancing. The car industry is asking us questions about this today, to know whether we can also do business on this issue. In the answer you will be able to read the conditions to be met today. However, if some of the measures are to be resolved in this respect, especially in the context of the re-launch, this will be done again on the basis of the proposals of the expert group and the Crisis Centre, with a view to doing the necessary work in this area as well. I also see a lot of questions about funds and emergency funds as well as about financial aid to companies. However, these questions are largely for the regions which are largely competent in this area. It is true that there are contradictions in the FAQ and that sometimes a different interpretation is given. However, we are trying to adjust them as best we can. Mr President, I am looking at the hour and Mr Ducarme. I would like to leave it at that. The future and the Economic Risk Management Group will certainly be discussed in the coming weeks. I will deliver the thirty pages of my reply to you so that Members can read everything quietly. If there are any further questions, I am sure you will inform me of them and I will come back to them at another session.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u88	Madam Secretary, thank you for the suggestion. It could be interesting for our committee to invite ERMG and debate sometime in the next few weeks. Maybe we can do it through video conferencing. We'll watch it. You have also said a few times that you wish to discuss certain matters with Parliament. I propose that we agree on the specific issues to be dealt with and that we set out a timetable for this. Mr. Ducarme was prepared to answer the questions put to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u89	Mr President, the National Security Council, in which representatives of the Länder also participate, has had to take radical and difficult measures, on the advice of sensible scientists, but also absolutely necessary ones. The stabilisation of the number of new cases in our country also shows this. I will return to that, but it is still useful, even if we have a debate of an economic nature, to say again that if such strong measures have been taken, it is because the absolute priority is naturally the health of Belgians. So we have other priorities, secondary but important. It is about supporting the engine of our economy, SMEs, the professions, the self-employed. If we have the opportunity and the prospect of seeing this country rise, it is because we have been able to preserve this economic engine and the work of these self-employed, these SMEs, these liberal professions, which will be able to resume. The measures we are taking are designed to help them through this crisis. In addition to the tax deferral measures and the agreement with the banking sector, the first is to reduce social security contributions through the reduction, postponement and also the exemption of contributions and, secondly, the introduction of a replacement income under the transitional right. This is the result of the implementation of the law adopted by your meeting on 19 March. Like Mr Delizée, I would like to thank all the groups for supporting this text which I have been able to submit to you so that we can put in place this exceptional bridge right. He was unanimously supported. This has, above all, given us the opportunity to save time and time for the various independent, liberal, affected or closed professions as a result of the measures taken by the National Security Council. We have already ensured that the procedures introduced are as flexible as possible. For example, a simplified form was made available to the self-employed. They can fill it out and deliver it by e-mail or regular mail. Of course, it was not necessary to add difficulty to the difficulty. That is why all the measures have been taken to ensure that the path leading to the activation of these measures through social insurance funds is as simple, as flexible as possible. The other essential elements are information-related. On 16 March, INASTI set up a green number, 0800 12018. No fewer than 80 telephone lines have been mobilised for this purpose. Each of us must tell the self-employed and the liberal professions that the social insurance funds naturally remain the first contact to inform ourselves of his rights and activate measures such as bridge law, deferral, reduction or exemption of contributions for the first and second quarters. But if a difficulty persists, a question, a problem, the INASTI, which I really want to thank with you for its action during this crisis, is obviously always available to the independents. INASTI is the administration of the self-employed. Beyond the green number, we have made sure to place all the frequently asked questions on the INASTI website – we can also find the link on the info-coronavirus website – which also allow the independent person to save time in relation to his/her personal situation. The next item is the situation on 31 March. The social insurance funds have 261 880 applications for a bridging right. I am told that the number of requests continues to increase, naturally compared to a number of requests made for the month of April, but not only. I will receive the consolidated figures shortly. I want to repeat it as much as possible; the measure we have voted for, the bridge right, is retroactive to March 1, 2020. This means that someone who has not activated the bridge right will still be able to do so, even in April. We will therefore continue to receive applications for bridge law for the month of March. It's obviously important. I have asked the social insurance funds to ensure that the payment is made as quickly as possible. It is impossible, at this stage, to give you a precise assessment. I asked them to provide me with details of the percentage of bridge fees paid. I can tell you that I see that their commitment is total. The strengthening of the teams within the social insurance funds allows us to see that already many independents have touched the right bridge. I want to thank them, too, for their work. I am told that, in the coming week, the March Gateway fee will be paid. Some colleagues have asked me about the amount involved. The bridge right for the months of March and April is the mobilisation of 960 million euros of benefits granted by the social security of the self-employed. On the payment facilities, on 31 March, the social insurance funds had already received 67,436 applications for a one-year extension of the social contributions for the first two quarters of 2020. They also registered 4.360 applications for postponement. Even if I do not yet have the consolidated figures, that should be the case in the coming days. I would therefore like to work with you in a transparent manner. I am told that requests for deferral and waivers are growing significantly. Mr President, I will of course keep the precise information available to Parliament as soon as it is given to me. Some asked me why we didn't make these postponements and waivers automatic. The reason is that this must remain the choice of the self-employed. You know that the payment of social contributions affects pension rights. We therefore wanted to offer the widest possible range: to postpone the payment to one year, to benefit from a reduction or exemption. While we have opted for as flexible and rapid a measure as possible, it must be left to the independent. At this stage, it mobilises €850 million. In total, for both measures, we reach €1.8 billion. Mrs Dierick, like Mr Delizée, you also asked me what measures were being taken to actively support the self-employed in the occupation and self-employed after retirement. You are right to pay attention to this category which accounts for no less than one third of the self-employed in our country. It is for this reason that I have wished, from the beginning of March and by circular, that the possibilities for reducing and deferring social contributions also apply to self-employed persons on a supplementary basis. I also adopted an interpretative circular on 24 March. As you pointed out, Mr. Delizée, it was important to do so in order to make the mechanism that we wanted as open as possible more flexible so that the bridge law could also benefit all the complementary independents who contribute as the main independents. In concrete terms, those self-employed on a supplementary basis who pay compulsory contributions on the basis of an annual income of at least EUR 14 000 – these are compulsory quarterly contributions of EUR 717.38 – must be treated as self-employed on a principal basis and can therefore benefit from the bridge right at full rate. It was important that we did not discriminate against self-employed persons as a complement to those who were the main ones, while sometimes they paid the same contributions. We are therefore in favour of granting the right of access to self-employed persons on a supplementary basis, on the basis of the amount of contributions. Mrs Galant, Mrs Dierick, Mr Delizée, Mr Vanden Burre, you asked me about the situation of the independents as a complement. You highlighted the difficult situation faced by some of them for whom no bridge rights are foreseen. I'll join you on this. For that reason, ten days ago, I submitted to Kern a proposal to extend the right of access for self-employed persons on a complementary basis. The aim of this proposal is to provide supplementary self-employed and active self-employed pensioners with the possibility of receiving a partial bridge right, subject to an independent income between EUR 6 996.89 and EUR 13 993.77 per year. The ceiling for this replacement income is fixed in such a way that the accumulation of income should not exceed the amount of EUR 1,613 per month for a self-employed person in the main occupation. We try, with the right bridge, not to leave the independents on the side. This is really a replacement income. You also mentioned in your questions the self-employed pensioners. We are working on it throughout the year in this Committee on the Economy. The average pension of an independent person is €911. Of course, it was important for these self-employed pensioners to take a measure which enabled them to benefit from a partial bridge right from the same amounts. The project for which I have already received the agreement of Kern provides for a partial bridge fee of EUR 645.88 or, if dependent, EUR 807.05. This will make it possible to provide a complement. I have already had the opportunity to present this project to the Group of Ten, the social partners. This project will shortly be presented to the "kern plus ten" and will be able to be activated, in response to Mr Delizée, via the special powers. As it takes time, I ask the caisses to be able to pre-register, as I had done with the bridge right before it came into force, the complementary self-employed covered by the measure and the pensioners. This will allow us to save time and spread the burden of the social insurance funds, which, as you can see, are under very serious pressure. Mrs. Galant and Mrs. Dierick, you asked about the right of transition for the physicists and the medical and paramedical professions, for example psychologists, psychotherapists, osteopaths and medical pedicures. These paramedical professions have access to bridge law. You remember what we voted on the necessary closing week. They can even continue to deal with emergencies during the closing of a week of their office while having access to the bridge right. It's fundamental. Mr Delizée, I hope that the Walloon Region and the Brussels Region will follow suit in the Flemish Region and will be able, in addition to the regional premiums linked to the closures of a number of establishments and economic operators, to also support those affected by the VOCID-19 crisis. Flanders also does this for the medical and paramedical professions. I know that in the regions some people are working on complementary measures and I believe that they should not exclude medical and paramedical professions. Flanders does not do it, why would other regions do it? Mrs Dierick, you say that we must ensure that these exceptional measures are not abused. I would like to use this question to pay tribute to the excellent work done by the RSVZ, the Directorate-General for Self-employed Persons and the social insurance funds. Any form of fraud is, of course, unacceptable, especially in view of the period in which we find ourselves. The procedures put in place in view of the extreme emergency situation respect a perfect balance, on the one hand, by helping the independents affected by VOCID-19 quickly and effectively, and on the other hand by maintaining control over the conditions for granting them. It's an important element. I now come to a series of questions put by several Members. Mr De Vuyst had a question on the closure of specialty shops. Madame de Laveleye, on the measures applicable to small producers. Mrs Gijbels had a question about the fate of laying hens. Mrs Houtmeyers had a question about the hotel sector and the essential sectors, and there was also Mr Gilissen's interplay on the horticultural sector. I am extremely sensitive to the difficult situation faced by our economic sectors by the coronavirus pandemic. As you know, containment measures are essential. They were decided by the National Security Council on the basis of a substantiated opinion and a comprehensive risk analysis produced by a scientific council. These decisions were implemented by successive ministerial decrees issued by the Minister of Security and the Interior. As I recalled, the Ministers-Presidents of the Regions also sit on the National Security Council. I am not personally in the National Security Council, but of course I am in agreement with the decision he is making. It is not for me, ladies and gentlemen, to receive inquiries and questions about an order made by the Minister of the Interior on the basis of the decisions of the National Security Council. It is not up to me, who is not a member of this Council, to take a decision on these closure orders. I therefore invite you to question the Minister of the Interior if you wish to question or question a number of decisions of the National Security Council. I have reminded you, from my point of view, that at a time when the deconfinination is not yet relevant, I think that if these measures have been taken, they have a meaning. I know that this is difficult, and that is why we are taking such steps. We try, as much as possible, through support measures, which can be taken by the federal government or by the Regions, to listen to all sectors. That is the case with Mrs Muylle and myself. The cornerstone of our action is consultation. In the same vein, and on the question of balances, before taking a position, I naturally consulted. For your information, again in this spirit of consultation, I have received today as the appropriate minister the opinion of the CSIPME, which is the body representing organisations linked to the self-employed and SMEs. He also voted for a carry-over of the balances, which I naturally cannot, under the conditions we meet, only approve. Again, in this spirit of consultation, and even companionship with Mrs Muylle, with whom I am working together on a number of issues, we can quickly assess the best date for a postponement, taking into account all the opinions given to us. CSIPMME for me, the consumer and consumer organisation for my colleague. We will bring forward our proposals in the Kern and the Council of Ministers in order to be able to decide on this issue. Mr Vanden Burre, you are asking me about the proposed moratorium on bankruptcies caused by the VOCID-19 pandemic. I am working with my colleague Koen Geens. The objective is to provide for a temporary moratorium on bankruptcies that would be their cause in the crisis of the VOCID-19. The economic crisis caused by the VOCID-19 and the effect on the liquidity of companies that have to close due to confinement may result in companies becoming bankrupt. It is therefore important to allow them to pass this course. It is essential not to let go of these companies, which are thus at the limit. Of course, beacons must be set, if we are to put in place this moratorium on bankruptcies with Minister Koen Geens. The first of these beacons ensures that the situation of the company concerned is effectively linked to the VOCID-19 and that bankruptcy is extremely limited in time. Indeed, bankruptcy protects. It is therefore a matter of finding balance. We have recently had an inter-cabinet meeting on this issue. The discussion concluded positively, which will allow us to move forward. Mr Gilissen, I am of course very attentive to the problem of the lack of labour in the agricultural and horticultural sectors, to which you refer. The elements of response I will give you here also apply to this interplay. In any case, for what does not fall within the competence of the Minister of the Interior, who acts on the basis of the decision of the National Security Council, on the one hand, and the Regions, on the other. I am thinking in particular of the economic support measures for the sector for which you are a requesting party. I know that this sector, like many others, is in great need of it. As a result of the VOCID-19 pandemic, thousands of foreign agricultural workers have returned to their countries of origin. It may not be known that 80% of the paid labour in Belgian agriculture and horticulture comes from abroad. The Agrofront, with whom I am in constant contact, tells me that many sectors will have to meet important needs. We are talking about 15 to 25,000 workers for asparagus, strawberries, outdoor vegetable planting, greenhouse horticulture, ornamental horticulture, etc. I really want to thank Nathalie Muylle for the work she has done in this area. We have managed to move things forward, to relax the rules for seasonal workers, to review the 180-day rule as well, and we continue. We have also ensured, within the framework of the Group of Ten, that the rules of cumulation between, for example, temporary unemployment and field work are relaxed. In this case, I think we are moving forward and that is essential. I will conclude with the question of food and the risks of shortages which, in my view, do not exist today in our country. It is a question of meeting the requirement at the harvest level. Mrs Dierick, Mr Delizée, Mrs de Laveleye, in our country, we are in excess of a number of conventional productions. So, in terms of food sovereignty, we probably have more appeasement than others. If the sectors linked to the food chain are presented as essential sectors, it is because we want to ensure that this capacity that we have now maintained throughout this crisis. I come to Mr Delizée's question, which tells me that, when the time for crisis management is over, the conclusions of this crisis will have to be drawn. I think he's absolutely right. This is the case in a number of other cases which concern us less here in the Committee on the Economy. I am thinking of the supply of medical supplies, but this is also the case in the food sector. You're told by a Liberal! It is someone who believes that free trade has all its virtues. However, through this crisis, what also appears is the limits of globalization. From my point of view, we cannot continue to suffer, at European level, from too strong dependencies, also in terms of food. Through what we aspire to, that is to say, a common agricultural policy worthy of this name, financed quite strongly and which is no longer the variable of adjustments in European policy, it will be a matter of learning from the crisis we are going through and of considering financing to match it. It is not a question of total independence but of less dependence. On a number of essential lands, we need to be less dependent on market rules. The rules of the market apply. Regulating is important. And you're told by a liberal! I conclude by that, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u90	Thank you, Minister. Please limit your replies to one minute, so we can close in time. The minister needs to go to a government meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u91	I would like to thank the Ministers for the comprehensive explanation. Many questions have been asked, but we appreciate that decisions have been taken very quickly, although much remains to be decided in the coming weeks. Let's talk about consumer credit. Minister Muylle is consulting with the sector and we can work on this in Parliament, but it is important that we can do so quickly. Every month of delay has a big impact on many consumers. Our group will be happy to cooperate, but preferably quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u92	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is important to intensify this committee in the coming weeks, especially for the necessary economic measures that will soon be needed to get out of this crisis. After the health crisis, we will have to look more closely at the economic crisis, even though Mrs Muylle said in a previous debate that we should not take the word recession into our mouths. Madam Secretary, you have spoken about flowers and plants and said that you are following the advice. But where is the unambiguous communication? One minute one has to close, then one can open again, then one has to close again. It is noted that certain shops and chains can sell this, but not the classic garden centres. You have largely answered the rest, but there was still a question about shopping visits. Perhaps banal, but a lot of consumers are awake from the use of shopping carts and the code keyboards for payments. Not everything is paid for without contact. There is a demand for a directive on this, to disinfect it every time after a visit. We see that some shops do this and make extra efforts, and others do not. That is something I hear from consumers very often. It may mean extra work for a number of shops, but it could reassure a lot of consumers. I suppose I can come back to the interplay after the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u93	Mr President, Mrs Houtmeyers has asked me to take her speaking time. Was that passed on to you or to the secretariat?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u94	Mrs. Van Bossuyt, that's not how it works. You have one minute's speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u95	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Minister Muylle for her answers and for the gesture of giving us the answers in writing. I thank her for that. It is very important that three things are happening at the moment, namely clarity, future prospects and financial breathing space. There must be clarity about the rules introduced, which must be clear and predictable and leave little room for interpretation. The rules should also provide a perspective for entrepreneurs, so that they know how to reboot at the end of the tunnel, when it is restarted. Finally, there must also be financial breathing space. We have a high cost structure. That is painfully clear today. Many measures have already been taken to meet these high costs. However, there are still uncertainties, for example about the solder period, the copyrights and the payment of invoices by the government itself. Those are things that are important now. Postcorona is important to reform. We clearly also need to keep holy houses under review and simplify administrative processes. Without falling into harmful protectionism, we must also think about globalisation. It doesn't help that we're so dependent on overseas. We have seen this, for example, in the case of protective equipment. We will have to clear up the ruins of the crisis. Unfortunately, there will be many bankruptcies. However, it will be important that both creditors and bankrupts are quickly clarified about their specific position in order to be able to restart if necessary. If there are plans within the government on this matter, we hope that they will also be discussed with Parliament. Thank you, however, once again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u96	Mr President, I would like to thank both ministers for their very comprehensive answers. As far as the barrier period is concerned, I believe that it is important to consult with the sector. After all, opinions are divided. Consumer opinions are also divided, as was shown by a poll I held today on the social media. It turned out to be fifty-fifty in preference to delay the solders. That will certainly not be an easy decision. It must be coordinated with the neighbouring countries, because we absolutely must avoid buying clothes online in neighbouring countries because it has already been priced off there. After all, our stores will be left with their stock. So we certainly need to tackle this at European level. I am also satisfied with your outstretched hand to Parliament to think about it together in the longer term. As far as the travel sector is concerned, you have given a very clear explanation. It is now important that we are all well communicated to the consumer. Now the consumer sometimes has to ask himself to have his vouchers paid back. So I'm sure they need to be properly informed. I am very pleased with the initiative you are taking with regard to the temporary registration of CBO. You're saying it shouldn't be changed. It is good that entrepreneurs will focus more on their webshops, but if they have to wait for registration in the FBO, they will lose time and time in this money. I am also very pleased that the limit for contactless payments has been raised. That took a while, but the result is there. I hope that the further roll-out of the appropriate cards will happen quickly, that this trend will continue even after corona and that they will therefore pay more digitally.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u97	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for this information. I think that in the insurance sector, for price control in supermarkets, for consumer credit, there is a social emergency. I heard you were open to discussion and parliamentary work. I am pleased to inform all colleagues that the PS is introducing a bill on consumer credits. We can work on that basis. There is no point in reinventing the moon. We'll be able to open for signature and work on the file. I repeat, there is really a social emergency for our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for taking the trouble to provide us with a more detailed answer to all the questions asked today. With regard to the first question, Mrs Muylle, I am somewhat reassured by the artistic blur that revolved around these famous ticket refunds. I feel like it's very clear in your mind. Of course, the information should be clearly disseminated to travellers. On the other hand, I remain a little hungry about the issue of strategic ownership and the renationalization of certain companies. I think it would be a debate that would have to take place without taboos. We will, of course, be open to this debate at the level of the Socialist Party. I still heard Minister Muylle say that maybe we could meet with members of the Economic Risk Management Group. I think it would be a good idea for us to have an exchange of ideas to see how they work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u99	Mr. Chairman, in turn, I would like to thank our two ministers and the members of the House for allowing this very useful meeting. As far as the issue of small farmers is concerned, there has been a lot of information on issues related to harvesting and therefore labour, but, unless I am mistaken, I have not heard much information on issues related to distribution. However, our small farmers, those who really do peasant farming, do not have access to large-scale distribution. They are, of course, the ones who build our resilience and our food sovereignty. They refer us to the difficulty of selling their production. It will therefore be necessary to go back to the subject to see how, while respecting containment, ways and means can be found for them to sell directly, given that markets are inaccessible in the majority of the Regions and to try to find a solution to meet their needs. In relation to the question of our food sovereignty, I mean that for the moment there is no risk, even if low-intensity signals exist. Nevertheless, we plead for the early establishment of an inter-federal group on the issue of food sovereignty because this crisis is a signal. There may be others in the years to come, and we believe that we still need to give fundamental thought to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u100	Mr President, I thank the two Ministers for their patience, comprehensive explanations and documents. A series of situations of which one had not imagined existence appear and must be dealt with in a hurry. I think the two ministers have sought solutions in their areas of competence. With regard to over-indebtedness, I understand that Minister Muylle is working with the sector. If work is done here, we will participate. I also understand that Minister Ducrame is particularly attentive to the situation of the self-employed as an accessory. He tries to target all the situations that arise to him. As an endad, I will tell him to relay the message to the Walloon government so that he can do the same with the €5,000 premium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u101	As far as the agricultural workforce is concerned, there is no sector as vital as the food sector on our plate. It has just been mentioned that many groups are concerned about the loss of income for the cultural sector. I think people give priority to food on their plates instead of a book or music. That's a little more important. You mentioned a platform that could, for example, involve job students in key sectors. Maybe the artists can appeal to that, too. A great deal of labour is needed in the agricultural sector. There are 25,000 workers who are needed. I hope that the necessary measures to find and employ that labour force will be taken soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u102	Thank you for your detailed explanation, Minister. I very much welcome the initiatives and proposals that are on the table to take additional measures for the self-employed in the secondary sector, because this is a very important category. They sometimes seem to fall a bit between two chairs. So I look forward to that extra effort. Especially in the agricultural sector, more people need to work. The sector can use any hand. I hope that we will be able to prevent the destruction of food that is ready to eat. We absolutely must avoid that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u103	Mr President, in my personal capacity, unlike my colleagues Christophe Lacroix and Patrick Prévot, I did not put a question to Mrs Muylle in this debate. Minister, thank you for your detailed response and for your enthusiasm in defending those who face a very difficult situation. We would be pleased if the secretariat could provide us with the figures we know are evolving. Indeed, it is important to be able to monitor the situation. You have clarified for me the legal basis for the complementary independents. I confess that I was desperately looking for a royal decree or a ministerial decree. I understand that it has not yet been taken, but that you have shown anticipation at the administrative level, which I congratulate you on. I will not argue about paramedics, but we know that for some, the split of health care is behind the door. So this is an issue that you will probably discuss with your colleagues in the Walloon government. I would like to conclude my speech with your last words, Mr. Ducrame. With regard to the limits of globalization, you said that regulation was important. Minister, your answer was very honest, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u104	Mr President, I would just like to thank the Minister for the clarifications he has made regarding access to bridge law and the extension of that right. I add that I have introduced a simple motion that I have tabled with the secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u105	Mr President, on behalf of the PVDA Group, I would like to thank both ministers for their presence and for answering all the questions. It was an immense work, all the questions combined in a topical debate. I myself was a little pissed between two committees and unfortunately I could not be here all the time. With regard to the question put to Minister Ducarme, we have remained a little hungry. This was a legitimate question from the Neutral Syndicate for Self-employed. Specialised commercial matters had to be closed by the measures taken by the National Security Council. If they are allowed to reopen, they will probably also lose part of their turnover because their loyal customers have started buying the products in the supermarkets where they were still sold. I suggest that in the next few weeks we should come back to that in joint committees to see what measures we can take so that, when they are allowed to reopen their case, those people may receive some kind of support. What I also note is that many self-employed people seem to still not find the right way to apply for the right of bridging and to get the right information to see when they can rely on it. Communication is certainly crucial to ensure that all the people affected are entitled to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u106	And then there's the replies to the interviews.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u107	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I am pleased that you have held consultations with various actors in this area in connection with the forthcoming solder period, and that we note that at least that period of sale will have to be postponed. As far as this European agreement is concerned, I understand that we are the only country in which a barrier period applies. That is a debate that must be held at European level. Above all, we must hold the debate in this House and stand up for the middlemen and retailers who are suffering from this crisis. We must note that, despite the various measures currently in force, many bankruptcies are imminent. But this too will be necessary to ensure the continued survival of retailers. With regard to the solders in winter and in summer 2021, this is independent of this and that must indeed be considered with legislative proposals. I think that this is very precarious and that we certainly need to deal with it quickly. That is why we are sticking to our interplay and have therefore tabled a motion of recommendation. In this connection, we regret that Mrs Dierick has just tabled a motion to move, perhaps, to order of the day, as is often stated in those motions. After all, what we are discussing now is the order of the day. Retailers are in danger of going bankrupt and getting into serious trouble. That is why we would ask for our motion to be supported. Our motion therefore remains pertinent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u108	I did receive a motion of recommendation from Mr Van Lommel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u109	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the reply of the Minister for Employment, Economy and Consumers in charge of Combating Poverty, Equal Opportunities and Persons with Disabilities, - considering that the corona measures have an impact on almost all sectors of our economy; - whereas there are more affected sectors than other sectors, such as retail outlets offering seasonal collections of various kinds; - whereas the lockdown measures will completely halt retail sales by compulsory closure, while certain seasonal collections will no longer be sold, these stocks will have to be fully met and therefore risk a financial disaster for the sector; - whereas after the lockdown shops will not be given sufficient time to sell their collection at the full price, because the solders will already take place without intervention in July and there will be an immediate heavy competition; - whereas unsold spring and summer collections could be sold out if the solder period is extended, calls on the Government to take the necessary measures to allow the sale period to start on 1 August 2020 instead of 1 July 2020 and to extend it by one month." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the response of the Minister of Employment, Economy and Consumers, responsible for the fight against poverty, equal opportunities and persons with disabilities, - Whereas the measures taken in the context of the coronavirus crisis affect virtually all sectors of our economy; - Whereas certain sectors are hit harder than others, such as the retail sector, which proposes to sell seasonal collections of a diverse nature; - Whereas because of the containment measures, sales are at a standstill following the compulsory closure of the shops, while certain seasonal collections may no longer be able to be sold, but they must be fully paid, which puts the sector at risk of a financial disaster; - Whereas, after confinement, shops will not be given sufficient time to sell their collections at full price because, in the absence of intervention, sales will take place as early as July, immediately leading to a fierce competitive auction; - Whereas the unsold from the spring and summer collections could still be liquidated if the period of sale was extended; Calls on the Government to take the necessary measures to ensure that the period of balances takes place on 1 August 2020 instead of 1 July 2020 and is extended by one month." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Leen Dierick. A simple motion was tabled by Ms.Leen Dierick. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u110	I hear that little can be done, including in the National Security Council, about the problems of the ornamental sector. The corona crisis is, of course, very bad and measures are needed. However, we must also think about the future, what will happen after the crisis and what will happen to the sector after the crisis. I hope you will encourage the National Security Council to prevent the destruction of the ornamental sector. I shall also table a motion to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic142x.u111	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Erik Gilissen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Erik Gilissen and the reply of the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Self-employed, SMEs, Agriculture and Social Integration, in charge of Large Cities, - considering that the corona measures have an impact on almost all sectors of our economy; - whereas there are more affected sectors than other sectors, such as ornamental farming; - whereas the lockdown has completely stopped sales in the ornamental sector while the costs for ornamental and garden centres continue to go on; - whereas, in the short term, emergency financial support is needed to compensate producers and the chain for the dramatic loss of income, stocks and economic activity; - whereas strategies are also needed in the medium and long term to ensure the viability and restart of the ornamental sector after the crisis; calls on the government, in consultation with the ornamental farming sector, to take the necessary measures to compensate for the loss of income, stocks and economic activity and to ensure the viability and restart of the ornamental farming sector after the crisis." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Erik Gilissen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Erik Gilissen and the response of the Minister for Middle Classes, Self-Employed, SMEs, Agriculture and Social Integration, responsible for the Greater Cities, - Whereas measures related to coronavirus affect virtually all sectors of our economy; - Whereas certain sectors, such as horticulture, are more heavily affected than others; - Whereas containment prevents any sale of products in the horticultural sector, whereas the costs faced by horticultural farmers and gardening centres continue to increase; - Whereas emergency financial assistance will be needed in the short term to compensate for the dramatic losses in terms of income, stocks and economic activity faced by producers and the whole chain; - Whereas strategies will also be needed in the medium and long term to ensure the viability and recovery of the horticultural sector after the crisis; calls on the government to take the necessary measures, in consultation with the horticultural sector, to compensate for losses in terms of income, stocks and economic activity and to ensure the viability and recovery of the horticultural sector after the crisis." A simple motion was tabled by the ladies Isabelle Galant and Kathleen Verhelst. A simple motion was tabled by Ms Isabelle Galant and Ms Kathleen Verhelst. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
