ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u2	I note that Minister Bellot is present. I invite him to take a seat next to me. There is an agreement within the government that Mr. Bellot will respond first, as he must leave immediately after his answers. That was so agreed within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u3	Minister, a few days ago we heard that Mr Luc Lallemand is leaving Infrabel and is going to work for the French railways. You immediately responded by announcing that the search for a new fully-fledged CEO must be started immediately. But you have also launched a remarkable proposal. You said that the salaries of the CEOs of the railway companies, which today earn EUR 290,000 per year, should be raised to EUR 400,000 or even EUR 500,000 per year. You must dare, Minister! We're in the middle of a social conflict by the tracks. A few weeks ago, the railway workers left work because a rise of 1.1 % seems to be too much to ask for. And then you come up with the proposal to double the pay of the CEOs. How strange can a minister be? What would your proposal mean for the traveller? If the CEO's pay doubles, will there be more trains? Will they ride more punctually? I don't think so! If I compare today's situation with that of 15 years ago, when Mr Lallemand started, I see that punctuality has fallen, and that passenger satisfaction has fallen. So, your proposal isn't just foreign to the world, it's also completely out of place. My question is very simple. Are you prepared to renounce your statements and confirm here that there can be no question of raising the wages of the rail summit?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u4	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this week I was saddened to hear you plead for the doubling of the salaries of the leaders of public companies, wages capped under the Di Rupo government, at an already very comfortable level. It seems to me that the two companies, SNCB and Infrabel, with these salaries, were not prevented from working with their skills. To plead to double a wage representing sixteen times the minimum wage of workers is, from our point of view, inept. It's amazing and perhaps worthy of thatcherism of the '80s. It is also contempt for the workers. Because, today, after all the efforts they have made, the latter claim a salary increase of 1.1%. This statement seemed to us to be truly intolerable even if it was made in a personal capacity. You may as well say that this is not audible to workers in the companies concerned. Minister, by proposing to double the salaries of CEOs on rail, what message do you send to workers who have increased their productivity by 20% with 4,500 fewer colleagues, the result of the three billion savings you have imposed on this sector? Do you think that earning sixteen times the minimum wage is really too little to fulfill a mission in the service of the general interest?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u5	Mr Minister, while Infrabel is cutting staff and increasing workload there, while there is cutting projects as the necessary opening-up of the port of Antwerp, the engine of the Flemish economy, you seem to have the budgetary space at Infrabel to raise the CEO's wages very spectacularly. Precisely on the day on which the cleaning aid stops because of the wage increase of 1% on their wages that they do not receive, you want to increase the wages of the CEO of Infrabel by more than 70 %. 290,000 euros are not enough. To get to a skilled successor to Lallemand, you want to give the top managers of the public companies a wage of half a million euros. Minister, there are other professions who can use a higher income! What an idea, by the way, that hallucinating high wages would guarantee better capacities! As if there would then be no more political appointments, as if getting a lot of taxpayers' money is a guarantee of competence. There are several ministers who prove the opposite on a daily basis. Getting a lot of taxpayers' money is really not a guarantee of skill. On the contrary: think of our royal house. Minister, I wonder whether the government shares your insane and shameless view, whether you should apologize and whether you can assure us that you will not change that line of conduct which today provides for the wage ceiling of EUR 290,000 for public enterprises.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u6	Mr Minister, I am honestly not grieved about the departure of the CEO of Infrabel, Mr Lallemand. That has nothing to do with his person, but the policy has just not been good enough in recent years. Half of the trains do not run on time, the traveller is not satisfied and the current infrastructure is insufficient to address future challenges. Moreover, if a job where one earns 290,000 euros a year is not enough for someone, then he is indeed not the government manager we are looking for. That is why I do not understand at all, Minister, that you say that EUR 290,000 would not allow us to find a competent CEO. For Green, his departure must be an opportunity to put the traveller back at the centre, to ensure that we have public transport with affordable trains, with punctual trains and with accessible trains. That is why I have a number of questions for you, Minister. Is it your personal opinion that EUR 290,000 is insufficient, or is that the government's position? Are you indeed convinced that we will not find a competent CEO for EUR 290,000 a year? What qualities do you think the CEO should possess?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, my best wishes. I would like to tell you that I have spoken in my personal capacity, but I can still claim a good experience in public companies, since I have been in the Infrastructure Committee since 2000. I have, however, seen a number of things that must be questioned in public enterprises if we are to guarantee both their future and the future of public service in the world that is ours. I recently learned of the willingness of Infrabel's current CEO, Luc Lallemand, to leave his post in order to join the French railway network manager, SNCF Réseau, as CEO. This opportunity reflects the recognition of the skills and professionalism of Belgian managers and managers on the European stage, in a world where European competition over talent is increasingly evident, and often at the expense of Belgium. The challenges for the Belgian track remain great. I'll mention some of them. Security still needs to be improved with the settlement of the ETCS file. Furthermore, the modal shift should be strengthened in the context of combating congestion and CO2 emissions. A further increase in the supply of rail is also envisaged by the roll-out of the new transport plan. Social dialogue also remains a challenge. It is therefore clear that the appointment of a new CEO should not be delayed. The selection procedure will have to be approved within the next few days. I would point out that this will be carried out within the same framework as that which saw the designation of the CEO of SNCB, under the conditions laid down by law and in compliance with the salary ceilings currently planned and decided in 2013, no more, no less. The established pay rules will be respected. I note today that we are implementing a recommendation which is not always followed up in other Belgian public institutions. For example, a CEO's salary ceiling is €329,000 on the French-language public radio and television channel, 25% higher than the current remuneration of Infrabel's CEO. Would you be of the opinion that the management of a company such as Infrabel is less complex than that of that other company? The question deserves to be asked. Contrary to what two interlocutors said, I never spoke about the level at which the amount should be determined. I would like to make it clear that the debate on the ceiling on remuneration is very important if we are to keep the management posts of public enterprises attractive, in extremely technical areas where competition from employers is raging. Otherwise, at similar function, at similar risks, difficulties and challenges, candidates will turn away from public enterprises and it is the entire public service that will suffer. That is why I call for an objective and serene debate in the near future, regardless of the choice of a new CEO for Infrabel, which takes place under the same conditions and within the same limits as today. When, as the responsible minister on SNCB and Infrabel, I hear the number of talents that have left, since I took office - and not because I am a minister... [[Laughs]] I hope so in any case, since several others have joined us. In short, when I see these talents who have left the world of public enterprises to pursue the same profession in private companies, because they were aspired by often much more favourable conditions, I ask you the question but I do not answer it. This subject is clearly established. Be aware that this phenomenon is not limited to managers, since technical talent – at all levels – also shows a shortage of staff, so that competition rules sometimes frustrate indecency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u8	Minister, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u9	I know that this debate will be difficult, but it must be conducted if we are to retain or attract to public enterprises the talents we will need to respond, in particular, to the climate challenge in terms of mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Instead of opening a strange debate about increasing the wages of top managers on the track, I propose that we open another debate on the major challenges facing us. Let us see how we can bring the activities of SNCB and Infrabel together as much as possible in one company, with one CEO and one board of directors. Instead of spending more money at the top, you can save money at the top. You can invest that money in those things that are important for the staff and for the traveller.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u11	We agree on one thing: the need for a debate. We initiated this debate by the resolution of the Socialist Group in the Committee on Mobility on the capping of the remuneration of heads of public companies. However, in this brief reply, I want to get out of the frame of the rail. What world do we live in? When the Michel 1st government came to power, a little over five years ago, you said that you would, for example, raise the minimum social benefits to the level of the poverty line. Five years later, we are far from the promised result: for one isolated, 940 euros per month. In this context, proposing to double the wages of the employers of public enterprises seems indecent to us! You tell us we don't attract flies with vinegar. We're talking about a salary of 290,000 euros. It's not nothing! And living with 940 euros a month is simply impossible. This is a substantive debate that our Parliament, our country, must conduct.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u12	Mr President, Minister, I do not think it is possible to attract skilled people for this job with an annual salary of EUR 290,000. Moreover, it is not a compliment to all top managers in such functions that this must be increased. If you are so concerned about income, I would much prefer this government to take care of the 16.5% of the population at risk of poverty as a result of their income, and 5% of them cannot even afford a daily hot meal. If only you were concerned about the rise in the price of train tickets. Train tickets that have to be paid by working people who have a much lower wage than those top managers. I ask you to set your priorities there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u13	Mr President, Minister, you say it yourself: public transport is needed to tackle the problems of mobility and the climate challenges. And so the discussion should not be about whether a yearly wage of EUR 290,000 is sufficient. That does not solve the problem. It is time to create a public transport system that can provide an alternative to traffic congestion problems and make our traffic jams smooth. We ask the future government not to save EUR 2.1 billion on public transport, but to believe in it, to invest in it and to ensure that there are affordable, accessible and punctual trains, because that is what the commuter deserves.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u14	Minister, road safety is a topical issue. Just look into the agenda of our Mobility Committee. Last Tuesday we had a hearing on zero tolerance for alcohol in traffic. A hearing on the flow of priority vehicles will take place later this month. Yesterday, a police judge in the newspaper, for the second time in a short time, said that he could not withdraw provisional driving licences because the law would not allow it. It is a subject which our committee is working on, but which also concerns the people. We do not always agree on what needs to be done, but that makes sense in a democracy. However, we do agree that one part of every solution is to increase the chances of getting caught. Mr Minister, what is the state of play regarding the roll-out of the Mercury database, which centralises various data, so that it is easy and efficient for the police to control, which would increase the probability of being caught? That's definitely policy. You do not have a mandate with this government to implement new policies, but the roll-out of determined policies should be possible. The threat of terrorism and other priorities have slowed down the roll-out of that system during the previous legislature, but in the current context, where there is a partial standstill, I would like to ask you, Minister, if you can give a timing for the roll-out of the Mercury database project.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u15	Thank you, Commissioner, for your question. I have always said that together we can only fight for greater road safety. Thanks to the good cooperation between all actors, we were able to reduce the number of road deaths by a third between 2012 and 2018. This cooperation will continue in the future. Since 2017, the Crossroads Bank of driving licences, Mercury, has been operational. For my services, that project is in fact closed. However, there are still contacts between the FPS Mobility and the FPS Justice to optimize the exchange of the data with the MACH database, which stores, among other things, the revocations of the right to send. It is also up to the police to develop an application to consult the data on a revocation of the right to send in the field. It is also up to the police to increase the chances of getting caught. My colleague from the Interior can give you more information on this. I will also advocate these important steps to improve road safety with him. He's here, by the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. I insist that we have been waiting a long time for the final roll-out. This is certainly not just your responsibility, it is rather a shared responsibility. If I come among the people today, I am asked what is going on in politics and what I am actually doing. I will explain what we are doing in the Mobility Committee. My appeal to the government is also to get to work and roll out the decided policy. Minister, I would ask you to take control. Join forces with your colleagues and ensure that you achieve results together with the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u17	Mr President, Minister, first of all I would like to express my best wishes for the new year. Above all, I wish you a safe 2020. That will be possible in the distant Aalter, but perhaps less for the inhabitants of Brussels, for the ordinary man and woman who are confronted annually with the riots that take place in the night of old on new. The figures I have been able to derive from the different media are not negative. 185 administrative arrests and 26 arrests took place. 22 cars and scooters were set on fire. In fact, one victim fell from a knife wound. I am outraged to see that, but the reactions that I had to read afterwards further indignant me. In some reactions, the facts are minimized, in which it is not mentioned as much or it is noted that it is better than last year. Together with a large majority of the population, I wonder what should happen before these riots are taken seriously. Even more hallucinating is it when some try to find the cause of alcohol abuse. Let us not laugh, if alcohol abuse was indeed the cause, then Flanders, then our country was one great battlefield. So, Minister, it is urgent time to call a cat a cat. These riots in Brussels and in other cities are caused by young foreigners. It is not because this group is part of the electorate of the PS, that we should no longer name it. That is why my questions are clear and clear. How does (...) evaluate to restore justice and order in Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u18	Mr President, Mr Depoostere, you are chairman of the Committee on the Interior in the Chamber. I wish you a wonderful and happy New Year. Following the previous riots during the turn of the year 2018-2019, I took the initiative to sit together with the Brussels police in the six zones, in particular with the mayors of Brussels and Mayor Moureaux, and to propose a number of measures. It was decided to work with a single central command for the whole of Brussels to play briefly on the ball and not tolerate impunity. There has been systematic and targeted action, which the population has been able to see. Things are certainly not minimized. The ball was played briefly and left no room for no-go zones or zones hors la loi. The other protection for the emergency services I have announced has been implemented. The Chief Constable of the Brussels-Elsene Zone has done a splendid job in his so-called gold commando. On the New Year's Night 185 administrative arrests and 26 judicial arrests were made on the territory of the Brussels Capital Region. Also because of my actions, the police set up a task force to analyse all the images that have brought with them additional identifications and also arrests on the basis of other data. 55 court files were opened for arson, deliberate blows and injuries, gun possession, destruction and rebellion. It's the first time this has happened. For the prosecutions and claims by the investigating judge, I refer you to the Minister of Justice. Our approach and mine have shown that there is added value for a unified police care system in Brussels and thus for a unified zone. In addition to the proven operational added value in maintaining public order, of which several mayors are now convinced, a unified zone will also yield the capacity gains that can be used for proximity police, for la police de proximateité and for la police des quartiers. Any kind of arson or vandalism is inadmissible. There is no place for impunity or for no-go zones, nowhere in Belgium but also in the Brussels-Capital Region. I wish to thank the mayors for their cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u19	Mr President, Minister, we certainly agree on one matter. It's true that the one-command structure has paid off. She's a step in the right direction. Minister, I refer to the bill of the Flemish Interest, which aims to create a single police area in Brussels-Capital. It is for discussion in the Committee on Home Affairs. You are welcome to that meeting, to give your opinion there as well. I expect a quick vote on the proposal. In conclusion, Minister, I would like to say that we must move towards a tough approach for those young perpetrators. Pamper policy must be over. We must move towards zero tolerance. It's got to be over with community service. We must, if necessary, go to boot camps. We must get rid of the non-binding fines and, if necessary, we must also make parents financially responsible for the criminal acts committed by their children.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u20	Mr President, Mr Vice-Prime Minister, yesterday some unexpected news came from the Federal Office. After 34 years, after 28 deaths and more than 40 injuries, silence was broken and it was announced that hundreds of DNA samples would be carefully collected and investigated even more carefully. The fact that the next of kin and victims were not properly informed of this in advance only shows a lack of human respect and empathy. But let us remain hopeful. I would like to put one specific question with three parts. We sometimes get blamed for being too academic or too theoretical. So I would like to ask you to respond very concretely, out of respect for the victims. First of all, the investigation team is making progress right now, if I can believe it. Would you, as Minister of Justice, not seize this momentum with both hands in order to increase further the research capacity, which has already been increased at our request, which is appreciated? Better late than never, it's very late, but let us seize that opportunity. Secondly, as far as the victims and the next of kin are concerned, organise another meeting where these people are properly informed, with respect for the secret of the investigation. After all, a few isolated conversations do not go too far, since the last one dates from almost two years ago. Thirdly, use the performing research techniques, not only for DNA, but also for ballistics and recovered weapons. I look forward to your specific answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u21	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think that anyone who has followed the criminal acts of the '80s of the Gang of Nivelles, as a citizen or as a politician in committee of inquiry, is very pleased with the legal action that we have read in the press. I look forward not only to these legal proceedings, but also to the positive technological developments that make these steps possible. We owe it to the victims and their next of kin to do everything possible to track down those offenders, even more than 30 years after the facts. Parliament has assumed its responsibility by extending the limitation period. As Minister of Justice, you have also assumed your responsibilities and passed the matters on to the federal prosecutor. It cannot be denied that there has been a new dynamic in the research since then. You have also increased resources, because if these new technologies require additional resources, then it is important that we give them to the research cell as well. Mr President, to what extent can the new technology allow comparisons to be made with the traces found? To what extent can the new technology lead to a breakthrough? That is a matter of concern, because we have often given false hope to the victims and their families with certain reports. That's the last thing we want right now. On the other hand, however, we also have a duty to seize every opportunity. What will be possible in the coming weeks and months?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u22	Mr President, I turn to you and all my colleagues. It is clear that the investigation of the Gang of Nivelles has received a new impetus for a few years. What has happened now is nothing new in that perspective. In fact, this is a continuation of the very strong efforts of the federal prosecutors and the federal prosecutors to use the latest research techniques, in this case the latest DNA methods, to compare the traces internationally with the DNA of potential suspects via the extensive DNA diaboks. I would like to point out that the investigation team currently consists of the best people in the federal prosecutor and the investigating judge of Charleroi. There is also an excellent collaboration between the federal prosecutor and the investigating judge of Charleroi. I often convince myself personally of that. There is also a team of 27 investigators who work together under the leadership of these two. I can tell you that this is going in a very favourable way. Giving people false hope is never good, and we have to be careful about that. It is also not good to dramatize matters if they do not need to. I'll invite the federal court to re-organise a victim's moment at a wisely chosen time. However, it is not always the federal prosecutor who causes leaks in the investigation or disclosure of cases. That's sometimes totally out of control of the federal court. With regard to the most modern research techniques, I would like to point out that not only the technology in the technological sense of the word has evolved very well in recent years, but also the legal technique has evolved very well. I hope you will forgive the academic nature of the answer, Mr D'Haese. In other words, we have made very great progress in recent years in the field of special research methods in this Parliament. The federal court is using all that technical but also legal technology that is available today. I remain very hopeful. I invite you to stay with me, because we owe it to our country to clarify this investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your very partial reply. Of course, I agree with your academic analysis that the most performing techniques should be used. I'm sorry you're not taking the opportunity to extend the investigation team even further. In the file of the Gang of Nivelles, time is more pressing than ever. If we ever want to bring that to a court of law, there's not that much time left. Hope brings life. Seneca said it: after hope comes fear. I come from a city where an old belfry stands with a very good spell:nec spe, nec metu. We keep hoping.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u24	Mr. Secretary, we're running out of time. We'll have time until 2025. If the researchers have prospects for solutions, if they have not been found by 2025, I hope it is sooner, then we are prepared to give them more time by adapting the regulations. I'm glad the investigating judge and the federal prosecutor are working well together. It's been different in this investigation in the past. Let us give justice the means to ensure that these new technologies can also be applied in cold cases other than the Nivelles Gang, so that we can solve more files. You rightly said, Minister, that cooperation with neighbouring countries and the exchange of databases offer opportunities to solve further issues. I, along with the victims and relatives, hope for a breakthrough in this dossier, because they deserve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u25	Mr President, Minister, Antwerp likes to unpack with records. Last year there was a change of 235 million tonnes and 11 million containers. We can be proud of that, but there are also figures that we cannot be proud of. You know that worldwide cocaine production has increased by about one third over the last two years to 3,000 tonnes. Last year, about 60 tonnes of........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We're not the drug port. In Rotterdam it was 40 tonnes and an increase of 50%. This is a problem that occurs in all countries. In order to tackle this phenomenon, international cooperation is first and foremost needed. I am thinking of the European Member States, but also of the countries of origin. I understand that customs are working well today with the Kali team, the public prosecutor and the federal police in the area of maritime access gates, but, as the press has already said, better security and screening of container traffic in the port is also on the agenda. This is a triptych. Firstly, a kind of nose that works on the basis of air quality. Second, a scanner. Thirdly, the use of artificial intelligence. All this requires the necessary budgets. The aim would also be to treat the 300 000 containers from South America as a priority, since all 11 million containers cannot be controlled. My questions are as follows. What progress has been made on cooperation with neighbouring countries and countries of origin? Are there any budgets for this new technology? Are you planning other initiatives to protect society from this disruptive crime?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u26	Mr President, Minister, yesterday you announced the figures for customs and excise duties on cocaine catches in the port of Antwerp. It was more than 60 tonnes or an increase of 23% compared to 2018. Compared to six years ago, there is even a sixfold increase. The street value would be over EUR 3 billion. In short, all very impressive figures. We also note that of the millions of containers that pass each year in the port of Antwerp, but a limited number of containers are checked. At the same time, we see the cocaine market rising. At least that is what we read in the European Drugs Report, which also highlights the important role of large ports such as Antwerp. That is why it is important, Minister, to increase the chances of being caught. It must be absolutely our ambition to be able to control each container in one way or another. This can be done through new technologies. For example, there is the customs 100 % scanning project, using artificial intelligence, electronic noses and targeted and advanced risk analysis, all means to strengthen control. I have the following specific questions, Minister. What is the state of play with regard to the application of the new technologies? What is the state of play of the 100 % scanning project and what is the timing within which that project will be fully rolled out?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u27	Minister, the port of Antwerp is Europe's drug turntable. The port of Antwerp is the main gateway to cocaine from South America. Last week, a joint report from the United Nations and the World Customs Organisation showed this. In South America, more and more cocaine is being intercepted on the ground, in the ports. In 2019, no less than 63 tonnes of cocaine was intercepted with Europe as destination, half of which you will hear was well destined for the port of Antwerp. One would think that if more drugs were intercepted before departure, fewer drugs would eventually be intercepted upon arrival, but nothing less is true in Belgium. Yesterday you even announced that there has never been so much cocaine seized in the port of Antwerp before. In the newspaper De Morgen, a former Colombian drug lord spoke. He was downright devastating for Belgium: "Great violence, as in Colombia, can also happen in Antwerp. Several drug cartels have already gained ground in Belgium. There's no way that drug mob goes unnoticed. This indicates that they have connections with police, politicians, justice and other sectors. What happens in Antwerp is hallucinating. Only a very small fraction of the containers in the port are checked. Fifty years ago, we were able to send a man to the moon, but Belgium apparently does not succeed today in detecting drugs in containers." I have the following questions, Minister. What is the government's reaction to the United Nations' destructive report and the hallucinatory figures on drug seizures? What measures will the government and, specifically, the customs authorities take to reverse this unacceptable and bad trend?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. In recent years, the fight by customs against the transit of drugs in port has been greatly increased. The drug teams have been reinforced. Additional scanners have been invested, there is more cooperation at international level, and of course there is a very strong cooperation with the Justice Department, with the police, and with the city and the port of Antwerp. These efforts will lead to more interception. In the countries of origin, we are already intercepting a higher volume of cocaine than our ports enter. Interception increased by 40% in the countries of origin and by 25% in the port of Antwerp. It is absolutely our ambition to push this fight further. The project 100 % scanning aims to combine different technologies. One of them's some kind of sniffing crane. Any container taken from a ship will be scanned in a mechanical way at the time it is lifted, in combination with X-rays and artificial intelligence to process the massive amount of data obtained. A preliminary study has been carried out by IMEC and the University of Antwerp on how to fully roll out this project and how to control each container, but also how to ensure that this does not have a disruptive effect on the throughput of the port. One could check every container today. This will increase transit time by about four hours, and that would represent an unlikely step backwards for the port of Antwerp in terms of competitiveness. Today the scans take place on the basis of risk analysis. It will be said that only 1% of checks will be carried out, but the risk analysis will precisely check where there is the greatest suspicion that smuggling activities can take place. It is assumed that the initial elements of the project 100 % scanning, in particular mechanical snooping, can be realized within five years, and that complete processing with artificial intelligence can be done within 10 years. I want to be clear, with this project we are an absolute pioneer worldwide. This can be done in smaller ports, but there is not a single port today with the size of Antwerp, which is among the largest in the world, which manages to control 100 %. Finally, customs can make a great deal of effort to increase the number of controls, to make supply as difficult as possible, but there is a supply today because there is demand. If there is no demand, there is no supply. So we must also have the courage to debate the social cost of the occasional use of drugs. These drugs are the subject of blood, both in the countries of origin and in our country. The economic and social cost is enormous and we all carry it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u29	Mr President, Minister, we must not be sloganical about this and say that all 11 million containers per year must be scanned. We need to be focused. We also need to see it wider. We must not only influence supply but also demand. There is also a need to increase the screening and handling of criminal organisations. It is also necessary to tackle the recovery of criminal assets and to strengthen administrative enforcement. Efficiency is important for the port. The transit facilities must continue to operate smoothly. I wish you and your colleagues in the government every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u30	Mr President, Minister, the figures do not lie, there is a greater chance of catching up, more cocaine shipments are being intercepted, but there is also a larger market. It's really important to put a lot of effort into that and to increase that chance of getting caught. I am glad to hear that we are pioneering the project that is being deployed and rolled out here. I hope that we will be able to achieve even more quickly in the coming years, so that something can really be done on the ground and so that the influx of drugs into our country and further into Europe can be reduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u31	Mr President, Minister, I am disappointed. It is sad, but more lines are consumed in Antwerp nowadays than bollekes. The use of cocaine should be addressed as a priority. The measures you are proposing are only a thin layer of varnish. Anyone scratching that varnish will immediately see the underlying problem. Europe is currently being flooded by cocaine and not Rotterdam, but Antwerp is Europe's drug turntable. The reports and figures show that the fight between customs and drug cartels has only just begun and in the meantime Antwerp is already suffering from a spiral of drug violence, with arson, grenade attacks and shelling. There is still no strong response from the police and the justice system. However, security is the most important and most important task of a government. Let our good intentions for 2020 also be yours: the safety of our people first. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u32	Mr Bacquelaine, you are the Minister of Pensions and you wanted to impose a point pension on Belgian workers, as Mr Macron is trying to impose it in France; antisocial measure. You had to go back – it's important – as a result of the workers' exemplary mobilization. I recall that in September 2017, you said that "this pension reform will pass", that "it will be imposed on workers". In May 2018, 70,000 Belgian workers marched through the streets of Brussels to challenge your point pension measure, 70,000! And you had to step back. Why? Because, like Mr. Macron, you want to apply a point pension that would become a raffle pension. I remind you, you don't eat with points when you're a pensioner, you want euros! And you wanted the point to fluctuate according to the state budget and life expectancy. It was really outrageous! And that's the same measure that Mr. Macron wants to impose? Well, in France, the mobilisation is the same: 1.8 million workers demonstrated in December, 36 days of strike, ladies and gentlemen, against the measure of point pension, a European measure that we want to apply in Belgium, France and Spain. Today, 200 events in the streets of Brussels! Mr. Belgian Minister for Pensions, can you give Mr. Macron advice? How do we go back on an anti-social measure? Are we tearing it apart? Are we burying him? Do we make a ball and throw it in the trash? Explain to Mr. Macron how a minister who has an anti-social measure recedes on a measure in the face of such a mobilization! I'm glad to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u33	Mr Hedebouw, as you know, pension regulations are national in Europe; they are varied and variable. Reforms are being undertaken in each country. Of course, all European countries face the same problem: because of a fall in the birth rate and an increase in life expectancy, there are fewer and fewer workers for an increasing number of pensioners. In fact, there are three possibilities: either we reduce the benefits – some countries have done so, Belgium has not taken this path; or we increase the contributions that weigh on the work – we have refused this facility, which was completely harmful in socio-economic terms; or we are asking everyone to work a little longer and to ensure that the length of careers is gradually extended. That is the option we have chosen. There are several ways to do this: point pension, individual pension account. The National Pension Committee in Belgium has prepared a report on the subject. In the government declaration, it was expected that the point pension would come into effect in 2025 or 2030. The debate is therefore obviously not closed. One thing is certain – even if it may bother you a little – in Europe, extreme right and extreme left often gather around the same theses in this area and consider that future generations do not matter in the face of purely populist and immediate stakes. That's not our point of view. On the contrary, we believe that future generations are important, that our children and their children after them imply the need to take courageous measures to safeguard our pension system and safeguard the interests of the generations that follow us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u34	Minister, I still expected a little more European solidarity! I was asking you to give Mr. Macron some advice because he doesn't know what to do anymore. Explain to him how we're doing to step back on measurements! You tell me we have to think about the future of our children and you're right. There's money in Belgium, there's money in France! In 2000, there was a billionaire in Belgium. Today, there are 29 of them! Go get the money, Minister! This is one of the reasons why this struggle in France is important because, contrary to what you say, we are implementing in France, Belgium, Spain, Sweden or Germany the same policy that aims to make people work longer, while you, as politicians, have the right wages and pensions! That is what must be decreed, and that is why Belgian workers must fight with French workers to seek victories!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u35	As Mr Verhelst is not present at the moment, I will give the floor to Mr Freilich.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, best wishes to everyone! 5G is not only faster internet, it will also be the technology of the future. All our society, all our lives will change in the future. I am talking about transport, logistics, the medical world, production processes and also millions of connected devices. Whoever manages 5G may be able to watch, read, listen, so spy. That concerns citizens, businesses, government, police and army alike. It is therefore obvious and understandable that the State's security advises for 5G level 4 out of 5. After all, it is about our national security and our strategic independence. I understand that Germany has recently received a letter with warnings about the network and this from another government. Is this information correct according to your sources? I wonder what that letter says. I would also like to know whether the Belgian Government has received such a letter from the US security services or the US Embassy. If so, can you make its content known to Parliament? You also informed me this week that there is no legislative framework for the safety of 5G in our country. What exactly are you waiting for to take initiatives for? We can see that our neighbouring countries have been doing this for a long time. France and the Netherlands already have concrete legislation. Why are we waiting? What will you do to ensure the safety of the future, namely 5G, as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u37	I shall now give the floor to Mr Verhelst, who has arrived in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u38	Mr President, Minister, a rapid roll-out of 5G is very important for the necessary innovations in our welfare society, so that companies can work on them. I am therefore very pleased that this was all very comfortingly confirmed in hearings together with the health aspect. The security of the 5G networks is, of course, an important issue. Today we read that the security services advise us on policy level 4, which limits the use of components of 5G equipment from non-reliable suppliers. The government must decide what it is doing with that opinion and what specific measures should be taken. The digital market is in any case an international market and therefore, above all, a European market. Therefore, I believe that the 5G policy should be developed in consultation with other Member States, as a difference in approach would lead to an uneven playing field, which is certainly not the intention. Minister, you indicated that in January the European Commission would provide a toolbox with precise protection measures to adequately cover the risks. The government will have to make choices in its policy. Mr Minister, is it true that our security services advise to introduce a restriction on certain equipment? Do the other Member States share the same view? What measures are you planning to take in connection with this opinion? Has there been any consultation with other Member States? Is this safety aspect being dealt with with as a matter of urgency, so that it cannot delay the auction and roll-out of 5G?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I would like to begin my reply by saying that no decision has yet been taken. We are doing everything we can to make that decision in a very thoughtful way, given the great impact on our economy and our country's security. That's why we don't go ice cream in one night. However, we are not waiting, Mr Freilich. On the contrary, a year ago, at the European Telecoms Council, I myself advocated a common European approach. This common approach is now in place, because in January the European Commission will present a toolbox from which countries can draw to tackle together the various problems and risks associated with 5G and its security. We have asked our own security services to do exactly the same, namely to analyse how we can roll out the 5G network in the best possible way, while at the same time guaranteeing the security, privacy and cybersecurity of our people and our companies. An interim report indicated a step towards safety level 4. The technical aspects to be developed for this purpose and the way in which they should be implemented in a legislative framework are now being examined. The cart cannot be stretched: first the risk analysis must be carried out and the way in which it can be completed before legislative initiatives can be taken. So we are doing everything we can to get it ready in time. We are also doing everything we can to ensure that the 5G auction itself is organised in good time and that operators are kept informed of the security measures they must take in order to roll out the 5G network. It's about national security. We need to think this through. We must do everything in our power to ensure the safety of the 5G network, which is so important for our digital economy in the future. This must be done in consultation with other European countries, so that we do not do business that, for example, could not be done in France and in the Netherlands. A unified approach is needed. That is exactly what we are doing. We will take the next steps. On the basis of the security reports from our security services, we will take legislative initiatives that will fully defend the security and economic interests of this country in the coming decades.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u40	Thank you for your reply, Minister. You know well enough that, when it comes to citizens' security, it is a matter of competence for individual Member States. This means that it is nice to wait for Europe, but not mandatory. Our neighbouring countries already have legislation on this. The Netherlands has a decision. France has legislation. It is very good to say that we will support Europe, but in the meantime we must wait. For us, protecting the privacy of citizens and our businesses is crucial. If we have to wait any longer for initiatives, then I suggest that Parliament takes matters into its own hands and comes up with legislation itself. I therefore extend my hand to all the colleagues present here. For national security we have to work across party boundaries on solid legislation, because it concerns the individual freedoms of citizens and the strategic independence of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u41	Minister, I am pleased with your answer. The cart doesn't get tense for the horse. The order is respected. It is important that it should be a proper law so that we do not have to start again later. It is also important to speed up this legislation with the appropriate measures and to get the auction in Belgium on track.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u42	I congratulate Mr Freilich on his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u43	Mr. Chair, Minister, they decided to put vacuum cleaners, tea towels and broom in the closet this Wednesday. I am referring to the 160,000 domestic helpers employed through the service vouchers. I say "they", because it is mainly women who occupy these jobs. This Wednesday, they decided to go down the streets in order to demonstrate their ras-le-bol, at the call of the CSC. Next week, they will do so at the call of the FGTB. The unions are unanimous in this: the situation is no longer tenable. What they're asking for is simple. An increase of 1.1%, which is derisory and insufficient in relation to the average salary received - which is 11.50 euros per hour - and in relation to the length of work performed. Colleagues, we're talking about an increase of 10 cents an hour. It is denied to them today by their employers. According to the latter, its margins are insufficient. Of course it's bullshit! Some shareholders of the country's large service securities companies are now granted bonuses of €6.8 million. It's a beautiful end-of-year gift, I think, on the back of the workers! The icing on the cake, Madam Minister, is brought by your colleague Mr Bellot, who, again in the press yesterday, wanted to raise the salaries of the leaders of large public companies by tens of thousands of euros. For him, the ceiling of €290 000 is not high enough. I would say, let everyone choose their own side! Today we want to support poor workers in precarious situations, those who are unable to complete their work for months and who work hard. Minister, I have two questions for you. Do you intend to take the lead in fostering dialogue and putting the partners around the table? (...) Do you intend to raise the minimum wage so that every worker can live in dignity?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u44	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, for the first time, the housekeepers ceased to exist. That takes courage, because they do not want to abandon their customers. They'd rather go to work, but they're out. The water is on their lips. They're actually just asking for a tiny bit of respect, for different reasons. Respect because a lot is expected of them. The testimonies show that they have to clean their living room, bathroom and kitchen in four hours and preferably clean up the mess that lies there. Respect for the physical hard labour they provide. They have to step up and down, mop up and sometimes drag up seats and closets. Respect for the physical consequences of their work: inflamed wrists and shoulders and a broken back. Many can therefore only work part-time. They ask for a respectful wage for that. In the 15 years that they exist, they haven't gotten a single raise yet and now they're asking for 1.1% raise. That 1.1 % would mean that they would be able to pay a cup of coffee at the end of their working day. If people hear that this is not even possible and if they hear that one of their employers paid themselves EUR 6.8 million at the end of the year, then I think it is logical that these people are angry and that they took action and stopped yesterday, just for their fair share of the cake. Madam Secretary, I only have one question. Will you try to unblock the wage negotiations in the service cheque sector so that the housekeepers get the respect they deserve?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u45	Mr President, Minister, I wish you a happy New Year. At the end of November 2019 I interviewed you in the same place on the same subject and I have already brought forward a number of testimonies. Yesterday, for the first time in their lives, the members of the poetry aid industry stopped, which is not obvious. After all, they run from home to home, so it is not obvious to organize and lay down the work. Nevertheless, that has happened and it will happen again next week. The testimonies are coming in brighter and brighter. Let me read two of them briefly. A certain Sabine writes to me: "At the age of thirty-eight, osteoarthritis was found in my wrists and ankles. I'm forty-two now, Peter, and I'm up." I repeat: 'I am forty-two and I am up'. That's what a lady writes to me. Someone else writes to me: "I have done an investigation and my sense of smell and taste have completely disappeared. Why is that? That's 24 years of javelin cleaning." Her sense of smell is gone; her taste is gone. What do the people involved ask? They don't ask for a little bit of respect, but a lot of respect. They ask for justice. They also ask for a serious wage. They ask for an increase of just 1.1 %, which is nothing. Nevertheless, this increase is very important. After all, it means that they count in society. It's also high time they counted. I'd like to interperate you because in the sector, the pay pressure is 1 in 89. This means that after three days of work, a CEO in the cleaning sector has earned as much money as a cleaning woman in a whole year. Graaidag in the cleaning sector fell on 3 January. That was last Friday, after three days of work. Madam Secretary, these relations are torn apart, our society is no longer able to cope with them. That is why I ask you again today. What will you do to effectively achieve the increase of 1.1 % and to gain the necessary respect for those who clean our society day in and day out?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. We did indeed have a debate on this at the end of 2019. There was no agreement in the Joint Committee 322.01 at the time. Unfortunately, there is still no such thing today. Since then, various contacts have been made between the social conciliator and individual parties. They have not yet reached a breakthrough. Trade unions still demand a gross wage increase of 1.1%. In many sectors, this percentage is actually applied. On the employers' side, the intention is to grant for the moment a single premium for 2020, which the unions consider insufficient. As I said very clearly in November, I fully understand the question of workers. You rightly say that they provide heavy physical work that is of great social value to many families with two working parents but also to many elderly people. However, ladies and gentlemen, I can hear your three parties in other fora always say that wage agreements must be concluded through social dialogue, between employers and employees. We cannot intervene, without any more, in social dialogue. This debate was also held in the regional parliaments. The price of service cheques, subsidies to service cheques and tax deductibility are a regional competence. I have also heard that my Flemish colleague has asked for a profitability study to look at the situation with regard to companies and what possibilities there are. The tax shift has also brought solutions on the federal level. I've had intense contacts on the subject. In the next few days, the social mediator will be in contact with both parties again. I will fully support this process under my authority in the coming days with a view to a successful outcome in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u47	Madam Minister, thank you. I am obviously not satisfied with your answers. Today, housewives rub, clean, dust, and iron throughout the day with important consequences for their health. Sickness stops are frequent and, at the end of the month, they fail to tie both ends. Everyone must take responsibility and it is impossible for us to give a deaf ear to this situation. Social dialogue must be given every opportunity by putting the partners around the table. It is also necessary to raise the minimum wage to EUR 14 per hour so that any worker can live in dignity according to the evolution of the cost of living.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u48	Madam Secretary, I hope that the social dialogue will have every opportunity. A social mediator has been appointed and I hope you will fully support the consultation. Households who work with service cheques have a social value for families who work and have children, but also for elderly care. I hope that they will at least receive that 1.1 % increase. After all, we find that there is an employer who has paid a dividend of EUR 6.8 million as a kind of a year-end gift. With this amount, the wage increase can be paid five times by 1.1 %. Given their social value and the respect and visibility they deserve, a minimum wage of 14 euros per hour is needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u49	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Politics can certainly make a choice. In this society, there is a subclass right in front of us. This subclass must work for a hunger wage of 11.5 euros gross. On the other hand, there's upper class for whom it never seems enough. Politics in this country, government after government, seems to be pampering that upper class and taking action for that upper class, while remaining deaf to the underclass. I expect from this and the coming government a vigorous policy to give voice to the underclass in our society, to those who are not visible to raise minimum wages. I expect politics to give the signal that it listens to those who today open their mouths and take action for decent wages.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u50	Minister, in recent years, there has been a fairly steady decrease in the number of ticket distributors. According to my information, almost a thousand distributors disappeared between 2016 and 2018, which poses a distribution problem for the inhabitants of rural areas in the sense that they now have to travel several kilometres before reaching a distributor. However, the Belgian is very attached to his cash. According to Febelfin, in 2018 no less than 264 million withdrawals took place. It's huge! In recent days, four large banks have decided to come together and create a network of distributors in order to cover a little better the Belgian territory and mainly the rural areas. The aim is to achieve a more balanced distribution, but also as far as possible outside the banking network, so as to be as independent as possible from the decisions taken by either bank. Minister, what do you think of this announcement made by the banking sector that formalizes the creation of this network? How can good geographical distribution be ensured, especially in rural areas? Has there been any consultation with Febelfin? Our group is still concerned about the consumer's interest. Will there be an increase in bank charges, if any, for withdrawals? Will this partnership between banks lead to an additional cost to the consumer?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, in the Committee on the Economy, I have already received many questions on this subject. I reiterate my position: the general trend is towards an increase in electronic payments. This trend cannot be stopped and many other European countries are, in this respect, more advanced than Belgium. I am in favour of a society poor in cash, but not without cash. Some vulnerable consumer groups depend on cash payments and should not be excluded from payment transactions. However, and this is clear to me, banks have a societal role to play in terms of geographical distribution and availability of distributors and counters. In order to ensure the availability of a sufficient number of vending machines under its management contract, bpost shall make them available at locations where there are no vending machines. I have also seen – and I am in favour of – this recent initiative of the four major banks to work together to jointly manage their vending machines. This cooperation is inspired by the need to reduce costs and make the investments necessary to purchase new, safer devices on the basis of real needs and objective geographical parameters. These banks intend to offer an optimised availability of liquidity over a limited spacing and 95% of the Belgian population would have a distributor within a radius of no more than five kilometres. I also note that some Regions, cities and municipalities still levy a tax on ATMs or bank agencies. In my view, such tax measures are counterproductive for the services provided to the local population. I also call on the decentralized political levels to take the necessary steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u52	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I assure you of the support of my group to ensure that the proper geographical distribution of these ticket machines is maintained, including in rural areas. We will pay attention to the impact of this new partnership, including the cost that will be passed on to the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u53	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you are aware that since September, apocalyptic fires have ravaged Australia following an explosive cocktail combining drought and global warming. During this summer of anger, we count 26 deaths, tens of thousands of people evacuated, thousands of firefighters who are at the end of the force fighting against no less than 150 combined fires and, probably the most dramatic thing in this history, an ecosystem at risk today. According to a study by the University of Sydney and WWF, as many as 1.5 billion animals of all species would have been lost. It would also take 250 years to regenerate destroyed and burned forests. Minister, this ecocide shows once again the climate emergency in which we find ourselves. Paradoxically, Australia was again pointed out at COP 25 as a result of its refusal to make climate commitments. Earlier this week, the Prime Minister said that she was ready to assist Australia and that you were making contact with the embassy in particular. We also heard last Tuesday about the acceptance of France's proposal for its assistance to Australia. Minister, can you tell us what came out of your contacts with the embassy? Can you tell us if you already have any idea what assistance might be considered? Finally, do you intend to deploy the B-FAST cell, which I believe is adequate for this kind of humanitarian and ecological disaster?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u54	Mr President, Minister, I am going to stick to the questions concerning the words of our Prime Minister, who, like you, at the beginning of the week, showed his greatest solidarity with what the Australian people are experiencing. What says solidarity also says aid proposal, with the possibilities available to us as a Belgian State, in particular the B-FAST cell specially set up for this kind of situation. In addition, I hear that Belgian firefighters, with their modest experience, have also expressed the wish to contribute to adequate aid. Minister, can you tell us whether contacts have been made with the Australian Ambassador to Belgium to see if Belgium's assistance is being welcomed? In this context, can our aid operations be carried out by B-FAST? Finally, Minister, have you been able to discuss the situation experienced by firefighters and local authorities, so that our country can contribute to the reconstruction of Australian infrastructure?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u55	Mr President, Minister, there is no need to recall the scale of the fires of unprecedented violence in Australia. The consequences are very serious and very worrying, both for Australians and for the ecological balance and ecosystem of our planet. Australia's flora and fauna are threatened in numbers. More than 6 million hectares – twice the size of Belgium – have been reduced to ashes. There were at least 23 deaths. Nearly 500,000 animals died. More than 1,500 homes were destroyed by flames. Of course, the issue of global warming lies at the heart of this issue, but it is important for us here to show our full empathy with the Australian people for what they are experiencing. For example, the Prime Minister said that Belgium would support Australia in the difficulties it was facing. She added that you were going to contact the embassy to see how we could help. That is why I would like to know, Mr. Minister, what emerged from your discussions. What concrete support can we provide? How much can this aid be achieved? Finally, are you planning European cooperation on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u56	Colleagues, first of all, on behalf of the Government, I reaffirm our solidarity with Australia and the Australians in this disaster that affects them. At this stage, Australia has not requested any intervention from the international community. In this context, B-FAST is not allowed to intervene ex officio. It's a first element. The second element is the following. United States, New Zealand and Canadian reinforcements are on site at this time, but their presence is due to prior agreements, which justifies their presence and assistance. Thirdly, as the Prime Minister said, contacts were made in Belgium with the Australian Embassy. These contacts led us to set an appointment next Monday. On Monday, we will know exactly the needs and desires of our Australian friends in the context of the disaster that affects them. We are also in daily contact with our ambassador to Australia. About 8,000 Belgians are currently staying in Australia. Safety and precautionary advice is provided on a regular basis. To date and to our knowledge, none of our nationals have experienced any difficulties related to the current fires in Australia.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u57	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am well aware that Australia has not yet issued a formal request. As I told you earlier, France took a step towards Australia and this step was accepted. France has sent several people who have arrived or should arrive today to help this country in difficulty. I am fully aware that it is not up to us to solve this climate problem, but they have today a climate-sceptic president who does not make the right decisions. I am delighted to hear, minister, that you have made contact with the embassy. You will have answers to our questions in the coming days. I hope you will not fail to inform us about the likelihood of sending actual members of our fire brigades, or members of B-FAST if an official request is made later, in order to be able to solve these problems on the spot in Australia, where firemen can no longer do so. Belgium, however small, must be able to help in this kind of climate and humanitarian conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u58	Minister, thank you for that clarification. Indeed, there is not yet a formal request from the Australian authorities. Our approach to our solidarity and our willingness to help logistically, if necessary, was very important. This is something that we must obviously reiterate if the need arises. We can also remind our people that, if they want to be supportive, there are a whole range of possibilities to help Australia, each one according to its means.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u59	Minister, thank you for that clarification. I thank you for the spontaneous nature, since, as you have reminded us, there is no request at present. A positive step has been taken, and we very much welcome it. We will come back very soon to know how much financial or material assistance Belgium can provide in this tragedy, to which we must pay particular attention and for which we want to be supportive.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u60	Mr President, Minister, today we are commemorating a very sad anniversary: the five-year anniversary of the beginning of the sentence of Raif Badawi, this Saudi blogger, the winner of the Sakharov Prize in 2015, sentenced, among other things, to ten years in prison and a thousand lashes for using his freedom of expression on his blog. This morning, together with a few colleagues from this Parliament, we participated in Amnesty International's action in front of the Embassy of Saudi Arabia. The latest news is indeed quite worrying. Raif Badawi and his lawyer would start a hunger strike to protest their detention and, since their transfer to a secure prison, their isolation. Yet, here, no one seems to be panicking. We continue our relations with Saudi Arabia as if nothing had happened, especially in the commercial sphere, despite the fact that this Parliament unanimously voted in 2015 to reconsider our relations with Saudi Arabia in the light of its sad human rights record. We who think we are the worthy heirs of the Enlightenment, we who, rightly, have all commemorated the memory of the victims of Charlie Hebdo's attack – also an attack on freedom of expression – must show the same strength with regard to what is happening abroad. We must remember that freedom of expression is not only the right to believe, it is also the right not to believe or to change religion and to be able to express it. It is therefore our duty to be intransigent towards countries that do not respect these rights. Minister, what has our diplomacy done to the Saudi authorities to release Raif Badawi and his lawyer and, more generally, all those imprisoned for expressing an opinion? Since the vote on this resolution, what reflections have our diplomacy carried out with a view to giving its violins a little better in terms of respect for human rights in our exchanges, in this commercial understanding?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u61	Mr De Smet, I obviously share your concerns about the fate of blogger Raif Badawi, who has been incarcerated, as you recalled, since 2012 in Saudi Arabia, where he was sentenced in 2014 to imprisonment and corporal punishment. This is a sanction prohibited by the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment – to which Saudi Arabia is a party. In several statements, the European Union reiterated its firm opposition to the sentence and called on the Saudi authorities to suspend all forms of corporal punishment in general, and thus also against Mr. Badawi. As with all countries, human rights are an integral part, systematically and at all levels, of bilateral discussions with the Saudi authorities. We are also working on this in all relevant forums, as was the case in Geneva during the last universal periodic review of Saudi Arabia. We called once again for the release of anyone imprisoned only for exercising their rights to freedom of expression, association and peaceful assembly – including human rights defenders and journalists.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u62	Minister, thank you for your answer. I have no doubt about your sincerity, but experience shows that exhortation and encouragement are not enough in the case of Saudi Arabia. Our country and others will have to strike where it hurts most, questioning some of our trade. As such, I will make a simple reflection. Like many here, I can observe that informants are negotiating with a view to a possible majority. There is a common thread between all the notes that have been circulating for months: one never reads a word – or very rarely – about foreign affairs and, in particular, about respect for human rights abroad. However, this is an essential part of a country's action. That is why I hope that this theme will be included – in the medium or long term – in government negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u63	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u64	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Patrick Prévot, Eliane Tillieux, Ludivine Dedonder.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u65	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (31/4) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (31/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u66	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u67	Mr President, I would like to thank colleagues from the PS for tabling this resolution. Personally, I am absolutely in favour of breast-feeding. In preparation for this resolution, I asked for advice from Elke, the fantastic breastfeeding expert who accompanied me years ago. She thinks we should definitely encourage breast milk banks. As a lactationist, she fully applauds this. She also reminded me that it was not so long ago the most normal thing in the world that children were saved by another mother's breast milk. The Belgian Association of Lactic Experts agrees. They state that breast milk is the golden standard for all newborns given its unique composition. In addition, they argue that breast milk clearly contributes to reducing neonatal mortality but also to the lower risk of diseases later in life. Mother milk from breast milk banks is intended in particular for vulnerable groups of prematures and other high-risk newborns. The benefits of breast milk are particularly demonstrated in those groups. Unfortunately, the mothers of babies on neonatal intensive care often do not produce enough milk to feed their babies. This resolution is therefore intended precisely for these babies. The World Health Organisation also recommends this. There are 238 active milk banks in Europe today, so Belgium cannot be left behind. If we decide to do this, we must of course invest in strong hygiene and safety guidelines so that donor milk is and remains a safe and quality product for newborns. This will therefore also require resources, because we need well-trained professional and logistical staff. Furthermore, we have to provide safe equipment so that everything goes superhygienic. A budget must also be provided for screening mommies who want to donate their milk, for screening milk samples and for developing a scanning system. Looking at the advice of the World Health Organisation and a number of European centres specializing in neonatal care, it is noted that breast milk is the golden standard for babies everywhere. Wanting the very best for premature babies should not be viewed financially or economically. If you want to do that, try to charge what it might bring if you look at the benefits, later in the lives of those babies. Then it will be seen that this should have been done much earlier. 2020 is far too late to put this resolution to the vote. Ecolo-Green will vote in favour of this resolution with great conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, it is easier for the services to be able to tell us in advance whether you are asking to speak on a proposal that has been put forward. I now give the floor to Mrs Gijbels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u69	Mr President, I would like to thank the authors of the resolution for including the various comments made in committee. I think it has improved the resolution. However, we will abstain for the following reasons. The demand for the officialisation of breast milk banks comes mainly from the French-speaking hospitals. According to the umbrella organisation Zorgnet-Icuro, this question of the Dutch hospitals is rather limited to non-existent. The indications for the administration of donor mother milk are rather limited. It is only useful in the first weeks of life of premature infants with very low birth weight, with health risks and only when the mother herself cannot breast-feed. It is certainly not the priority of Zorgnet-Icuro. It also costs a lot of equipment, people and resources, but if there are hospitals that want to set this up within the existing budget of financial resources, then according to our federal logic we cannot oppose it. For these reasons, we shall abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u70	Mr President, on behalf of my group, I fully support Mr Prévot's proposal for a resolution. As has already been said by our colleague from Green, breast milk is a golden standard for all newborns. The positive effects of breast milk have been clearly proven. Mother milk is better for the development of the baby's brain. Also for premature babies, breast milk is literally and figuratively vital to prevent neonatal mortality. Since 2008, the World Health Organisation has been promoting donor milk as the best alternative. In Europe, 238 active milk banks already exist. Also in our neighbouring countries. In Belgium there are for the time being 4 breast milk banks, two in Brussels and two in Wallonia. It's strange that there isn't one in Flanders. This should be a golden rule, but we should also be a little realistic. No breast milk bank has yet been approved. No legal rules on quality and hygiene have yet been laid down. I welcome the fact that the resolution calls for these rules to be laid down first, in order to give each child quality and safe donor milk. Then there can also be scientific research. However, this does not mean that there must be a breast milk bank in every hospital, which means a lot of investment. I think it's okay that every hospital has a lactation support program within every neonatal service. That's different from an official breast milk bank. After all, an approved breast milk bank allows women who are not patients of the hospital to donate breast milk and other hospitals that can reduce donor milk. This means that a great deal of monitoring is needed, both from donors and from breast milk itself. Making this possible requires a lot of investment. The milk needs to be analyzed. The donors must also be analysed. The milk must be pasteurised. The necessary material must be available for this purpose. It must be free of bacteria and viruses. Hence the call from Zorgnet-Icuro that a breast milk bank is not needed everywhere. There's only one in the Netherlands. In Denmark there are two approved breast milk banks. In my amendment, therefore, I would like to call for one official breast milk bank to be organised in each region. I am inspired by the doctorate of Professor Veerle Cosyns who recommends organising and recognising one milk bank per region for the sake of quality and efficiency. However, others can also organise a breast milk bank using their own resources, but I believe that the government should put quality and efficiency first and start with the recognition of one official breast milk bank per region, and put the necessary resources in place. Hence my amendment to organise one milk bank per region.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u71	Mr President, we support the fact that the resolution before us encourages hospitals to develop lactation support programmes in the neonatal service, but that is what is actually happening today. Hospitals are already supported in this today. There is a specific funding for the training of nursing and developmental staff of the materials. In our country there are already 47 hospitals that were willing to conclude such a contract. Of course, no one denies the added value of breast milk. In a situation where the mother herself cannot give milk, breast milk from another mother is certainly a good alternative. We note, however, that we have no idea of the needs at all. There is also uncertainty about the cost of this resolution. The dome of hospitals Zorgnet-Icuro also stated in an opinion that he does not see breast milk banks as a priority, but that there are many other more pressing challenges. In committee, Mrs Van Hoof's amendment, which she has just explained, was rejected. However, we have supported this and will support it today, because we believe that a single breast milk bank should be sufficient for the whole country, in times when we should focus on efficiency. Mrs Van Hoof herself referred to the example of the Netherlands, where there is only one breast milk bank. We would like to support the proposal to go to one milk bank per region, but we will abstain in the vote on the whole of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the benefits of breast milk have already been explained in detail here, so I will not repeat them. Especially when it comes to prematures, the benefits are huge. Founding mother milk banks in a number of hospitals is therefore a commendable objective, which we can fully support. In fact, our party has already tabled a similar resolution in the Flemish Parliament in a previous legislature, so I think it is clear that sp.a supports this initiative. We will not support the CD&V amendment because it is a resolution and we assume that we should first have a clear framework and draw up a clear plan before we give our opinion on where these breast milk banks should be located and how many there should be. We welcome the text as it stands, and we will therefore vote for it with conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u73	Mr President, we will support this resolution, but within a strict framework. The first message I wanted to convey is the added value of breast milk, which is no longer to be demonstrated and the importance of promoting it. Secondly, there is no question for us, as we felt too much at the beginning of the debate, of suggesting that midwives or maternity mothers would do nothing in this direction today. It's just the opposite. Major work has been done within maternity wards for decades to promote breast milk. It seems to me essential to recognize this here and to stress it. Thirdly, milk banks already exist. Developing multiples or even in almost every hospital or network is neither necessary nor relevant. On the other hand, we are in favour of the operation of a few milk banks in the country, with sufficient budgetary and human frameworks, to ensure above all the quality of service and of course the quality of health, since it is usually premature ones that are concerned, which pose more infectious risks than children born in the long term. It is therefore on the basis of these remarks, Mr President, that we will support this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we all know a mother who would like to breastfeed her premature baby and/or hospitalized in neonatology, but who is unable to do so. Some of us also know mothers who have excess milk and who would like to benefit from it from other children. This proposal aims to meet different needs: those of mothers and newborns, by developing a legal framework for what is known as milk banks. I think it is useful to recall that these milk banks can be for internal use and treat only the milk of their own mother for their child; or the banks of breast milk for external use, which treat the milk of the mother but also the milk of donors. As we know, the benefits of breast milk are no longer to be demonstrated. The various colleagues were able to report this during their speeches. Many studies have also pointed to the fact that this breast milk has many anti-infectious, antiviral, antifungal, antiseptic and nutritional properties that may be even more important in the sick or premature newborn. A 2016 report of the Supreme Council of Health recommended the exclusive feeding of premature babies with breast milk. However, we also know that circumstances do not always allow this, especially when the baby cannot suck because it is too fragile, for example, when the mother cannot produce the necessary quantities of milk or when the composition of breast milk is not adapted to the needs of the newborn. I am thinking in particular of mothers who are taking medication. To facilitate the collection and proper management of clean mother's milk, but if this is not possible, the use of donated milk should, according to our group, be encouraged. This is already happening. I will take the example of the CHR in Liège where breast milk is given to infants as a prescription medicine for a pediatrician. Unfortunately, these initiatives are not numerous and, when they exist, they are not known to future mothers. Some hospitals refuse both internal and external donations, while others make calls for donations. Moreover, there is no legal framework or good practice guide for the operation of milk banks in our country, contrary to what exists in France in particular. For our group, it seemed interesting to have a global view, a snapshot of the situation on these milk banks since the sector tells us that there is a demand. Following the recommendations of the Superior Council of Health, we consider it necessary to encourage some hospitals to develop milk banks to manage milk from donations and to develop collaborations with hospitals that do not have them. I know that some colleagues have spoken in committee about the need to have a milk bank per Region in this text. This is the subject of an amendment by Mrs Van Hoof. For my group and myself, this does not seem relevant to us, because the difficulty is that we do not have a clear view of the needs. We do not want to limit this formal request, but let legislators and specialists develop these milk banks or not. The supervision of these milk banks according to whether they treat milk from donations or from their own mothers seems essential to us, in particular the collection, storage, conservation and distribution of breast milk. That is why we have formally included it in this motion for a resolution. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you that in the Socialist Party, more than in other parties certainly, we are in favour of women's freedom of choice. That is why this text is not intended to stigmatize women who, for any reason, would choose not to breastfeed. We only wish to allow these mothers who wish to breastfeed their children to make every effort to promote breastfeeding. It is precisely in this sense that we have defended this resolution on milk banks, which has received the support of many colleagues in committee, and I also hear it today. I hope that the same will be true today in the vote. I will come back to some of the questions or statements made by colleagues in plenary. I thank Mrs Creemers and the entire Ecolo-Groen Group for their attention and constructive attitude on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u75	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u76	Mrs. Fonck, you're always quick to react. I do it in order. Mrs Fonck, I'll thank you too, don't worry! I thank the N-VA who participated in this debate, but I regret, however, that this logic of confederalism even reaches the breast milk banks. For us, in the PS, in Belgium, a child is a child. I find it deplorable that you do not fully support this proposal despite the constructive attitude you have taken in the committee. I would also like to thank Mr. De Caluwé and his group for their contribution to this text. I thank the CD&V. But as I said, my group will not be able to support Mrs Van Hoof's amendment because we do not want to limit milk banks in this text to this point. I also thank our colleagues and comrades in the Sp.a. for their good words and constructive attitude. Mrs. Fonck, I kept the best for the end. I thank you for your attitude – and I have no doubt about it – in the Committee on Health. I just want to say that at the level of our group, there was never a question of suggesting that the health care staff were doing nothing. So I wanted to reassure you. I thank you for your support for this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u77	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u78	Request/Demande 1,b • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Els Van Hoof (31/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u79	The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendment retained and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u80	At the request of the authors, I propose that you refer the bill back (MM. Dieter Vanbesien, Georges Gilkinet et al.) amending the Act of 2 April 1962 on the Federal Société de Participations et d'Investissement and regional investment companies with a view to integrating climate objectives into the mission of the Federal Société de Participations et d'Investissement (No. 893/1) in the Committee on Finance and the Budget. At the request of the proposers, I propose the legislative proposal (Mr Dieter Vanbesien and Mr Georges Gilkinet cs) amending the law of 2 April 1962 on the Federal Participation and Investment Company and the regional investment companies, integrating the climate objectives into the mandate of the Federal Participation and Investment Company (No. 893/1 to the Finance and Budget Committee. This proposal had previously been sent to the Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate. This bill was previously sent to the Energy, Environment and Climate Commission. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u81	By letter of 6 December 2019, Mr Philippe Roland, first President of the Court of Auditors, communicated that Mr Michel de Fays, an adviser to the Court of Auditors, would reach retirement age on 20 June 2020. By letter dated 6 December 2019, Mr Philippe Roland, first President of the Court of Auditors, announced that Mr Michel de Fays, Counselor in the Court of Auditors, would reach retirement age on 20 June 2020. In accordance with article 1, paragraph 3, of the Act of 29 October 1846 on the organisation of the Court of Auditors, advisers are appointed by the Chamber for a term of six years. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 1 of the Law of 29 October 1846 on the Establishment of the Court of Auditors, the Boards are appointed by the Chamber for a term of six years. The Chamber must therefore appoint a new adviser to the French Chamber of the Court of Auditors. The Chamber should therefore appoint a new councillor for the French Chamber of Auditors. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 January 2020, I propose that you publish a call for candidates for the Belgian Monitor. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 January 2020, I propose that you publish a call for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u82	You have taken note of the list of proposals that have been requested for consideration in the last agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I shall consider it to be taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider it accepted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u83	Vote on Amendment No 7 by Els Van Hoof at request 1, b. (31/5) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Els Van Hoof on request 1, b. (31/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 70 Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was adopted. The amendment was therefore adopted. Mr D'Haese, what are you saying? (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u84	The cartel voted in favour, I understand?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u85	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Can I ask everyone to be careful in the vote? We all have good intentions for this year. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 98 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 35 Abstensions Total 133 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution, as amended. This will be made known to the government. (31/6) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution, as amended. It will be notified to the government. (31/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-09-55-plenair-ip019x.u86	We must approve the agenda for the next sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the next sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 16 January 2020 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, January 16, 2020 at 2:15 p.m.
