ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting the sitting a little later, for which we apologise. However, the delay had technical reasons. We also apologize to the Minister for the short delay. Minister De Crem isn't here yet and can't be here because he's been detained elsewhere for the time being. Therefore, with the Royal Decree No. 19 want to start.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u2	The Minister asks for the floor for an explanation. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u3	Mr President, this is a decision of power of attorney to take concrete measures to ensure that the procedure at the Council of Foreigners' Disputes is as normal as possible during the Corona crisis. On the one hand, the professional and procedural deadlines are extended, just as they have been for the courts and courts and for the Council of State, and on the other hand, the decision provides for the possibility of carrying out procedures in full in writing. This is now possible in all cases where the judge considers that he can rule on the basis of the file. Depending on the elements in the file, the judge may decide at any time that a hearing is still necessary and may call the parties whenever possible. It is therefore really the case on a case-by-case basis, and even if a written procedure has been decided and the judge decides at a certain time that a hearing is required, a hearing is planned. A written procedure is also provided for in cases of extreme urgency. Finally, the KB also provides for electronic communications via e-mail. It is mandatory for public authorities and lawyers and optional for foreigners. That was a brief explanation of the content of the power of attorney decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u4	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The content of the Royal Decree sounds a bit familiar to us, as we have seen similar texts concerning the procedure for ordinary courts and courts and for proceedings before the Council of State. So we have actually seen two KBs of this kind review in committee. Is anyone asking to speak on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u5	Mr President, this Royal Decree is indeed somewhat similar to the other extensions of the deadlines we have seen in other dossiers. However, I have two further questions: the period of application and the practical feasibility of the written procedure in principle. The normal period of appeal is 30 days. The time limits for lodging appeals which expired between 9 April and 3 May are now extended until 1 June. The problem is that people have been in lockdown since March 18th. The publication of this KB was only published on 6 May. People have very often not had the opportunity to consult their counselmen since 18 March. Madam Minister, that is why I would like to add two points because I believe that there will be problems with the period. Why was the deadline of 18 March not chosen instead of 9 April? The report to the King states that as from the government's stricter security regulations and the resulting restrictions on public life and freedom of movement, there is a risk that mandatory procedural procedures for judicial bodies will not be possible in good time. Is it possible to do an extension after 3 May? A lot of people haven't been able to see or speak to their lawyers. Most lawyers, social assistants and legal assistance offices, for the pro-Deo applications, will start work today at the earliest, May 11th. Many will not open again until after 18 May. Is there any possibility of adjusting those two deadlines? The written procedure shall be made standard. That worries me. If the written procedure is now standard, neither the asylum seeker nor his counsel shall be heard at the hearing. This also means that no questions from the judge to the asylum seeker, no observations from the asylum seeker, no interpreter, no body language, no presence of the guardian, of the family members, no idea of the asylum seeker's attitude. Those are all things that are important after all. How is it communicated to these people that they get the chance to extend? The publication did not take place until 6 May. How will people be informed? How should the communication between the lawyer and the Council of Foreigners' Disputes be conducted? According to the report to the King, the communication must go by e-mail. According to the KB, the communication can be e-mailed. I see two problems with the electronic e-mails. First, there is a judgment of 9 February 2016. In that judgment, electronic litigation was destroyed by e-mail because the Council of State considers that e-mail is an insecure and unsafe means of communication. What about privacy? At that time, lawyers who have to send procedural documents by e-mail act as data controller under the General Data Protection Regulation. Since this is usually a very sensitive personal data issue, many safeguards, such as the encryption of the files, need to be provided. This means, therefore, that there are a lot of obligations for a lot of lawyers, which will not always be respected in practice, especially when it comes to very short deadlines. How do you see a solution to that? So far my questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u6	Mr President, Madam Minister, I thank you for this order that we have been waiting for some time. I remember that this procedure was discussed at the very beginning in the framework of a royal decree of special powers in connection with civil proceedings. It was then dissociated because it did not include the Conseil du Litigieux des Étrangers (CCE) and then the administrative dispute was inserted into it. And now we're integrating the CCE. It's good to see this arrest coming. However, there are still questions, and I agree with my colleague in particular with regard to the retroactivity period and the period that has been chosen, i.e. the deadlines that came to an end between 9 April and 3 May 2020. I can try to understand some logics, but if I apply my own logics, they don't go to the end. I will therefore wait for your answer to understand and eventually reply because not all the deadlines before the EAC are 30 days. There are shorter deadlines of 15 days, especially when it comes to manifesting itself after a long procedure, a long absence, etc. With regard to the issue of extreme urgency and written procedure, I know that the report to the King has been amended, fortunately, to allow for a right of reply and a possibility of having a reply note, but that is only included in the report to the King. I therefore really wanted you to indicate in a formal way here that this written procedure on the subject of extreme urgency, when we know how the extreme urgency dispute is going before the EAC, will offer the legal possibility of having a reply note to the lawyers. It also means that lawyers will have to have time. We know how it works. In general, an application for extreme urgency is filed and the administrative file is consulted the morning of the hearing. This would mean that the administrative record must be communicated by a certain means and that counsel should be given the opportunity to make a true reply in writing, since only written material will now count, since the reply to the hearing is no longer possible. How to organize this? This is now foreseen in the report to the King, but there are still some questions. Other points, which I do not return to, have been mentioned by my colleague Kitir. Minister, I am waiting for your answers, and I will eventually intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u7	Mr President, the questions put by Mrs Kitir and Mr Aouasti are somewhat similar. Why is that only on April 9th and not on March 18th? In the discussions between the core and the ten Presidents, it was decided that all three should take place on the same date. If one were to enter into force on 18 March and the other would take effect retroactively, all three would have a different date of entry into force. Before 18 March, force majeure can be invoked, as always, and after 3 May, force majeure can also be invoked, as always. It is the judge who decides whether there can be a written procedure. He can decide right away that this can't be done. I assume that, for example, when guardians need to be consulted, it is very difficult to do so by written procedure. Some questions need to be asked orally and not in writing, because of the fact that documents have come and go. It's the judge who can decide. Even if the judge decides to proceed to a written procedure and if it becomes clear in the course of the procedure that there is better contact, a hearing can always be planned. We have chosen not to work with retroactive effect and an extension. All interested parties have now been given the opportunity to organise themselves in order to respect the deadlines. Therefore, it should not be extended. The written procedure is possible until 18 May, which is in line with the granting of measures to the Council of State. Most of the procedural acts at the Supervisory Board we have requested have already been done in writing, by registered letter, and can therefore be done with respect for the measures imposed. As far as the procedure of extreme urgency is concerned, it is the judge who decides, Mr Aouasti. It is up to the latter to propose a sort of agenda. From that point on, lawyers know what to do; they know the time they have to respond. This is done on a case-by-case basis, depending on the situation, depending on the complexity of the file. Of course, extreme urgency always says that it is extremely urgent. The Council of State does not provide for an extension for UDN procedures. Ms Kitir, as far as the e-mails are concerned, there is a judgment of the Council of State of 2016. Between 2016 and 2020, of course, there has been some moving insight. This corona crisis has led to the Council of State itself using e-mails, although it is true that there is still a framework to be drawn up. This is only true for this particular period, but I assume that we will be open to making it possible to do so in future. The framework to be drawn up must, among other things, ensure greater safety. Now it's clear to the lawyers and there's not much to argue with for the time being. It's either this or nothing, because there were no contacts possible. So it was actually force majeure, if I may call it that. The Council for Foreign Affairs has overtaken many written matters, but if this crisis takes too long, there is a risk of a rising waiting list and a lack of work. Of course, that is not pleasant for the lawyers, nor for the people involved. After all, they have no perspective. Afterwards, the normal force majeure regime can be re-established.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u8	Mr President, Minister, if I follow your reasoning, you say that the periods should not be extended because force majeure can still be invoked. I hope that there will be a legal framework for the e-mails. However, I have not yet received an answer to my questions about the privacy of the documents shared by electronic means and how they will be protected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u9	There is a design framework ready for more security. They now say they have to do it because they have no other option. That's what's happening. Now it's a little ice skating.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u10	Madam Minister, I had one final question for you, particularly with regard to extreme urgency, and the note that could be tabled, as a reply note. This has been planned for the moment only in the context of the oral report. In order to avoid any problems, the aim is to be as precise as possible vis-à-vis the councils and the beneficiaries. What form should this note take? Is it the same fate as the note in reply to Article 39/76, namely that there would be only new elements in that note, and that anything that would not be new would be excluded of its own motion? Do we find ourselves in the case of a form of note in reply to what is being done with regard to the asylum procedure? A complete note is then required which includes all the elements, including the original request. It's really important to know. Are we asking for a complete request with the new elements and only them? For legal certainty, it is necessary to clarify this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u11	Mr Aouasti, this reply note replaces what should happen in a normal situation. That note therefore replaces a normal meeting for the Council of Foreign Ministers. For this purpose, the same standards apply as for a normal meeting. This means that the elements already included in the UDN case (extreme emergency appeal) are not going to inject new elements, as could happen before the judge. From now on, this is a written procedure. We will not change bewijsvoering die kan gegeven worden, nor introduce new elements. This has never been the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u12	On that, we agree. This is the very fact of the procedure before the Foreign Litigation Council. What I am simply asking is whether, in the context of the elements that were contained, this note should be an integral note. I'll ask the question differently. Will the judge rule only on this writing or will he rule on all the writings, since they are two separate procedures?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u13	Like before.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u14	No, there are several hypotheses before the judge.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u15	He's going to rule on everything in the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u16	So it is not only the last writing that is worth it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u17	No, that's how it was done before. The judge makes a decision based on all the elements: what is already in the file and what is in the written note.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u18	What about the initial request?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u19	Yes, of course. The file is treated as before, only it is no longer live, vis-à-vis it. We haven't changed that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u20	I just wanted to make that clear so that it would be noted in the committee's debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u21	It also seems logical to me that this note does not replace the previous written procedure for a document, since it is actually a replacement for an oral sitting. Colleagues, anyone else asking to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u22	We have already discussed Royal Decree No. 12. It is now a matter of discussing the advisability of its extension. As previously agreed, we will no longer talk about the substance of the KB, but about the opportunity for its extension. We have already done the same in relation to the courts and courts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u23	You sound very strict today, Mr President. Maybe that's because I follow remotely, but the atmosphere seems different. I agree with the philosophy of the power of attorney decision, but I have two questions. When can we expect the rules for administrative courts? Article 1 of the Royal Decree provides that the period now running until 3 May may be extended. In another opinion, the Council of State has already stressed that an arrangement in a Royal Decree cannot be simply extended. Then how will this extension take place? Is there gonna be a law or another solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u24	Mr President, Minister, I had the same question as Mrs Kitir and another. The deadline until 3 May is extended automatically by 30 days. We are already on 11 May, which means that the deadlines that came to an end on 4 May do not come into consideration. For security reasons, would it not have been more appropriate to extend a series of deadlines, including those that expired on 4 May, perhaps not by 30 days but at least until the expiry of the automatically extended deadlines of 30 days from 3 May? These are people who have not been able to access advice or services. This question is very acute today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u25	Mr President, I would like to say that we should be able to answer the questions that have been asked. I have already explained the publication of Royal Decree No. 12. The content of that royal decision will be summarized, because that will help us get on our way. In Royal Decree No. 12 of 21 April 2020 concerning the extension of the time limits for the administration of justice of the Council of State and the written examination of cases, some measures were taken regarding the Council of State. Article 1 extended the institution and treatment periods due to expire during the crisis period, then fixed until 3 May 2020, to 30 days after the end of that period. We have already discussed this at a previous meeting. Article 2 lays down the procedure to be followed in respect of applications for suspension on grounds of extreme urgency and applications for interim measures on grounds of extreme urgency. Article 3 provides that certain claims and actions may be dealt with without consideration in open court for the period laid down in Article 1. In Article 4 of Royal Decree No. 12 shall be provided for in the electronic system for procedural documents and additional documents. Article 5 provides for a regime for each notification and communication which extends the electronic possibilities and takes into account individuals who are not able to use an electronic procedure. The extension decision, which is on the agenda today, concerns only the extension of those measures, except for Article 1, which deals with normal institutional and treatment periods. Those deadlines shall not be extended as there shall be no legal uncertainty over a longer period as regards the State interests endorsed. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of the exact scope of the Royal Decree. The period mentioned in Article 1, which is important for the other procedures mentioned in the following articles, will end on 18 May next – instead of 19 April. The end date of the provision is also in line with the extension decision of the expanded National Security Council. The end date of the measures taken by Article 1 of Royal Decree No 12 had been set at 3 May, since the strict security measures had already been maintained until that time. In the meantime, it was decided that a large part of them would be extended, more specifically until 17 May, and that they would be relaxed only in several stages. The current flexibilities and the general state of public health are insufficient to repeal the provisions of Royal Decree No. 12. It is precisely for this reason that this text provides that the end date of validity of the derived measures can be adjusted by the King – obviously according to the evolution and being justified by it. As regards the time limits provided for in Article 1 of Royal Decree No 12 of 21 April 2020, they will not be extended. Actors associated with the functioning of the Council of State, including litigants, have been able to organise themselves so that no extension is necessary. On the other hand, with regard to the provisions referred to in Articles 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the same Royal Decree, it is necessary to provide for one until 18 May, inclusive, on the grounds that public health has not changed sufficiently. The date of 18 May 2020 therefore allows the Council of State to organise itself as effectively as possible in the circumstances and to take all precautions. So that there would be no gap between the initial text of Royal Decree No. 12 of 21 April 2020 and the proposed amendment will enter into force on 4 May 2020. Mr President, I should like to quote this in my introduction. I also discussed a number of possible suggestions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u26	Did I understand correctly, Minister, that the extension of the scheme could happen in an RB?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u27	Mrs Kitir, I repeat that the extension can only be carried out by a royal decision of the Council of Ministers. If we want to extend beyond 18 May 2020, another royal decision is needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u28	Minister, how do you respond to the opinion of the Council of State, which states that the extension cannot be carried out by a royal decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u29	Mrs Kitir, this is a decision which has been submitted to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u30	Minister, thank you for your answer. You indicated that each had made the necessary arrangements in the event of the expiry of a deadline on May 4, 5 or 6. In my view, it would have been more prudent to carry out a systematic extension of all the deadlines until 2 June next, including those which expire during that period, even if it was considered that the deadlines did not cover 30 days. If you give me all the guarantees, I believe you, on the assumption that you rely on official data. In any event, it is a matter of being attentive to this question. Indeed, one leaves a confinement period of more than six weeks and a 30-day delay is extremely short. Some people may not have been able to make the necessary contacts, while the deadline for them expired on Monday or Tuesday. In doing so, they will not be able to initiate proceedings.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u31	It is a question of the 4th of May with the following 30 days.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u32	Until June 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u33	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u34	Then can we finish the discussion of that KB?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u35	Mr President, I would like to correct something first. Yesterday I had an interview at RTL, where it appeared that some things were misunderstood about the recovery. Someone who works on intensive care made a very emotional testimony there. She said she gave everything, she was empty, she couldn't go any further, and now she threatened to be requisitioned by me during the recovery. That's a little short. It is right to prevent patients from having to take care of themselves at a time when we are in a second wave or people in care are getting sick. There are people who say they could handle the first wave, but they won't be able to handle it mentally next time. So it's a stick behind the door. The same thing happened in 2009. There aren't so many people here who've been through that. Mr. Flahaut still remembers influenza A (H1N1). Mrs. Onkelinx had done the same thing, but never needed to use it. I compared it to fire insurance yesterday: they pay it on time every year, but hope never to need it. This is the same thing. It is also limited to the corona epidemic, but it is something we thought of when we were discussed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference about the housing centres, where there were 50 staff, most of whom were caregivers and caregivers, of which only ten were still present. There, people had to take care of themselves and maybe clean their room. That's when we're not gonna be able to do it anymore. We didn't have such a decision, and then we deployed the army. With all the admiration for the army, which is still very flexible. Mr Flahaux, Defence remains very flexible. However, I must say that it is not customary for our soldiers to carry out tasks in residential care centres. Its capacity is also limited. There's a lot of volunteers in there. We've also summoned students. Much has happened in the field of free will. We also want to be provided for this. It is important that there are not only enough beds, but that there is also enough capacity to care for the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u36	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for your explanation of exceptional and subsidiary measures. Who wants to intervene?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u37	Mr President, I would like to give some technical support to Mr De Block. Article 5 (1) 2° of the Law of 27 March 2020 authorises the King to take measures to combat the spread of the virus. This is a new article that has been added with regard to the exercise of health professions. That article provides for the possibility of recovering healthcare professionals who would not yet be mobilised to manage this crisis, so that they could provide support to the other professionals who have already been deployed in the fight against the epidemic/pandemic. It is envisaged that the use of this measure will take place on the basis of information given by the provincial governor or the hygiene inspector concerning a capacity problem in a place of practice or at the request of a person in charge of a place of practice for the provision of care located in Belgium who has communicated through the governor or the hygiene inspector a lack of health personnel seriously endangering the continued provision of care to the sick at his place of practice. This procurement measure is intended to meet the demand for the strengthening of health-care personnel that has thus been made. The full implementation of this requisition is carried out by the governor of the province where the place of practice is located, where there is a shortage of qualified personnel. For the administrative district of Brussels-Capital, in accordance with Article 4 et seq., the organisation organising the agglomerations and the federations of communes is the authority of the Brussels agglomeration competent under Article 48 of the Special Law of 12 January 1989 on Brussels institutions, namely the President of Government of the Brussels-Capital Region or the senior official designated by the Government of that Region. This Royal Decree gives the Minister of Health the opportunity to raise staff in health care when the need so requires. The determination of a deficit shall be made by the governor, by the person responsible for a given framework, or by the health inspector, who shall determine its appropriateness. These claims will always be assessed by the Minister of Health. In concrete terms, the recovery will be done by the governor of the province, after an order for recovery has been signed by the Minister of Security and Home Affairs and the Minister of Health. The recovery order must therefore be signed by the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Health, and must contain at least the following elements: the circumstances justifying the recovery, the nature, quantity and duration of the services imposed and the conditions under which the services are to be carried out. Anyone who refuses or fails to act on a claim can be punished.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u38	Mr President, Madam and Mr Minister, I am asking you first of all about the time frame for the publication of this Royal Order, which was developed at a time when our vision of the health consequences of the pandemic was not very clear. This is still not quite the case. Nevertheless, over the past 10 days, there has been a continuing decrease in the number of people in emergency care services and an improvement in the situation in nursing homes. The mobilization of medical staff (nurses, nurses, doctors) in these places is also welcome. The problem is the mismatch between the decision, as the minister said, to take insurance in the event that things go wrong and the publication, the publicity of this order. I do not understand how we were able to wait a month before publishing this decree, which appears today to be out of step with the real situation. All this can appear as a form of disavowal to medical personnel who, on the contrary, have shown his commitment, his courage to try to save as many people as possible, who are now largely exhausted, who hope to avoid a second wave of infection and who, in any case, do not understand that one can imagine having to requisition him, where spontaneously, voluntarily, he was on the ground. At the very least, I would like to get an explanation on the subject and to understand this discrepancy between the timing of the decision, the timing of its publication and its communication. Here's a first round. I reserve myself for further comments eventually later, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u39	Mr President, I thank the Ministers for the clarifications. Nevertheless, on the ground, this royal decree, like the one that follows, is extremely ill-perceived and is obviously published, at a time when the downward curve of the epidemic suggests the release of professionals assigned to the VOCID units. We have also seen the unwavering professionalism that they have shown in recent weeks. The real question that many people are asking on the ground, and that I am relaying, is the following. Are these orders still necessary today or not? I understand that the army does not have an infinite capacity, but the gap, as my colleague Ecolo has just said, between the will expressed in this decree and the situation on the ground in times of crisis is evident. He asks questions and questions. For staff and unions, it is of course essential to ensure that requisitioned professionals can do the job safely. This means that they can have adequate protective equipment, that they are properly informed so that they can do the right thing and, of course, that their full pay is maintained. Can you reassure us about these different aspects? Where will professionals be requisitioned? You've already given a series of elements. You mentioned the intervention of provincial governors. More broadly, what will be the care structures involved and what type of health care professionals are envisaged to be requisitioned? With what objectives will these people be requisitioned? You're going to tell me that today is not the case, but let's imagine that a second wave is happening. What kind of care personnel would you think would be possible by means of this order, and in order to meet what specific needs? Could this requisitioned health personnel be assigned to any other institution regardless of distance? Are there any safeguards regarding travel? Is a case-by-case analysis planned, depending on the circumstances? I am thinking in particular of the distance between the place of residence and the establishment for which the requisition takes place. If so, who will decide? One imagines, given the total involvement and the number of hours to be spent in hospitals at the bedside of patients, that it is quite unacceptable to impose on these professionals too long journeys, which could cause additional fatigue to these teams who came in reinforcement. I'm coming to the appeals. You talked about sanctions if the requisitioned persons did not submit to the applications. What are the possibilities of recourse in relation to requisition decisions? More specifically, what do the terms "serious reason" or "more urgent professional duty" mean to refuse the application? Will care givers who have given up the profession because of a burn-out, for example? I am also thinking of this category of staff who voluntarily departed from the caregiving profession because it had become too painful for them. In addition, we have seen people, for example, close to geriatric care, who, humanly, could no longer continue to provide care in this type of unit, and have decided to move towards anything else, such as teaching. Will these situations be assessed on a case-by-case basis? What remedies are available?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u40	Mr President, Madam Minister, I know that such measures have already been adopted in the past. As you recalled, this was the case during the 2009 flu. As in 2009, it may well be that it should not be used this time. That would be great. I still have a question. I read that you said that "the purpose of the requisition is to be able to activate people who have the necessary training but do not practise in the care sector, like certain collaborators with nursing or medical training in health administrations". I already see who you are thinking about in practice. What guarantees are there that the training of these people who have not been in the sector for a long time, sometimes for several years, is still up to date? In this regard, is an upgrade possible or envisaged taking into account the very limited timing of the implementation of this Order?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u41	Mr. Chairman, it is true that the publication of this royal decree has been misperceived by nurses and caregivers. While we were expecting from the government a requisition of masks at some point – today the Belgians still don't have masks – while we were waiting for a requisition of reagents at the time when we didn't have enough tests, all this was not done by the government. On the other hand, today, while the medical staff really responded in an exemplary manner during this crisis, a royal decree was issued to requisition these medical professions. On the ground, some do not hesitate to call it a declaration of war. Not only did the royal decree arrive late, but it was very misperceived when there was momentum to mobilize the medical professions. We have seen orthopedists become pneumonologists, midwives go to work in VOCID units. We have seen an incredible mobilization against this peak and today we are releasing a royal requisition order that arrives too late because perhaps it is no longer necessary. On a psychological level, this measure can have a really negative impact on the profession that is treated as if it had never answered present. I think that is also the way the field interprets it. There was a need to respond positively to the mobilization. More than 5,000 people in Flanders and more than 2,000 in Wallonia volunteered to fill the medical reserves, which have only been activated very partially. It would therefore have been necessary to issue a royal decree to better supervise their activation. Second, many health-care workers are economically unemployed, as the activity of the units in which they worked has decreased considerably. We could also have offered better contracts to some caregivers and nurses. In addition, safety in the workplace should have been ensured. There have been a lot of absences, but I would point out that the protective equipment is not available everywhere. That's a serious problem. What have you done to address this? What about regular screening of health care personnel? It is indeed professionals who face risks. However, they are not regularly detected, but on a case-by-case basis. Above all, this was only done once in the rest and care homes. We therefore lack guarantees and a clear vision on this subject. Why take out a requisition order, while volunteers are waiting to be supervised? In addition, staff responded present. Finally, the PS, Ecolo and other parties such as the N-VA have agreed that this royal decree should come out. It seemed important to me to remind him.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u42	Madam Secretary, I have two comments to make. The second comment is in line with the striking example you gave of what you experienced yesterday with someone from the field of work. My first comment goes on to say that this is an exceptional measure. It should also remain an exceptional measure for an exceptional situation. This also means that we hope that it should not be applied. The measure should be a sure thing. However, the rules for this need to be clear. The measure must be subsidiary, which means that it can only be applied if necessary, when the normal mobilisation procedures, such as the classic contingency plans and the voluntary calls in the healthcare sector, are exhausted. It must also be a temporary measure and that temporary measure must be implemented. The measure can only be used in the strict management of this COOVID-19 crisis. Let those criteria be clear. Madam Minister, your example shows that there is a lot of unrest on the ground, whether or not there is unrest. The framework therefore needs to be clarified. There is a need for better information for the actors in the field. It must be clear that the framework is limited. The measure must not be a pretext or a means of pressure, and I refer to the rumours in the sector. It must be clear that the measure will not be invoked in the autumn, for example when there will be general discussions about working and wage conditions in the healthcare sector, which are coming and are to come. Madam Minister, remove the concern, because from the point of view of public health, your measure can be defended within a very restrictive framework, the management of the crisis. It can only serve that purpose. Take that unrest away from the unions. Remove that unrest from the General Union of Nurses, who spread another message that she is worried. Madam Minister, say very clearly that this will not stand in the way, or worse still: it will replace a structural policy that is needed to appreciate our healthcare sector more. That structural policy is needed, hopefully everyone is convinced now, to provide care staff with a perspective that goes beyond applauding at eight o'clock in the evening. Provide a real perspective on wage and working conditions and remove the unrest on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u43	Mr President, I would like to thank both ministers. Mrs De Block, you were right to point out that this is holding KB an option, in case there is no other option. At the same time, however, you must ensure that when necessary, everything is in order. The Council of State points out that the legal provisions of the Statute should also be included in the Royal Decree. I read, among other things, about the liability of insurance and the consequences for the current employer, but is this sufficiently covered and clarified in the Royal Decree so as not to cause problems in the future, if we would need it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u44	Mr President, some of my fellow Members have already said: it is a certificate that the approach to a pandemic such as this requires exceptional measures. The recovery option created in the Royal Decree is only possible when all the classic crisis plans have been exhausted and we still have problems. In this sense, this is the roll-out of some kind of insurance plan, which we hope we will never have to use. I have a number of technical comments to make. The opinion of the Council of State notes that the preliminary draft does not cover all aspects of the recovery system. The Council of State refers in particular to the status of health providers, as regards their liability, their insurance and the impact on industrial relations. The new Article 28/1, § 4 addresses a number of issues and clarifies a number of important safeguards, but questions still remain on the ground. For the sake of understanding, is it true that, when it comes to liability insurance, recovered health providers are fully covered by the institution or provision to which they are assigned? Then I have a question about the self-employed. What happens to the possible practice of a self-employed person, who must be abandoned at the time of requisition? Can one refuse? Or can we come to a situation where this can be done part-time and where one can continue to work part-time in one's own practice? These self-employed people are most likely to have patients who cannot pass on to someone else and who have pressing needs. Then I come to the employees. They retain the link with their original employer, are protected against any form of dismissal and their pay is further paid by the original employer. Those were some technical questions. Finally, a number of colleagues mentioned protective equipment. This is very important and should also be available to everyone on the ground. Questions have been asked on several occasions here in the Chamber. However, I would like to point out that there is concern on the ground. In some hospitals people still work with rationing of material, for example mouth masks. That worries me. We must reduce the limits there. This will certainly help us to overcome the concerns on the ground. Madam Secretary, thank you for some clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u45	Madam Secretary, you received some very specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u46	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet and Mrs Tillieux have asked me about the deadline for publication of this order, when the health situation has changed favourably and the curves are descending. As far as I am concerned, I hope that this trend will continue, which is not certain. Indeed, several countries are already facing a second wave. The necessary checks-and-balances have been deployed. A question can come from the health inspector and is certainly motivated. On the other hand, a demand can also come from the sector itself and then he has to prove that he has already used all the other means to supplement his services. Ms. Tillieux spoke about the staff dedicated to the VOCID-19 beds. The number of occupied VOCID-19 beds is decreasing, so staff will have less to do. However, we must not forget that as of today, normal tasks are being resumed in hospitals. All the deferred care needs to be overtaken. The co-workers working in the updated COVID departments came from the other departments. They're going back to their regular ward now. As Mr Malbrain, who is on intensive care, said on Saturday during the debate of the medical world, we must avoid seeing the water rise again on two sides through the dismantling of the COOVID beds, the possible second wave and the resumption of normal activities in the meantime. After all, one cannot put two people in one bed. Last time, by activating the emergency plans, we suspended normal activities immediately within the week, but they will gradually resume. We have to, because we don't want to kill by delayed care. Mr Gilkinet, the opinion of the Council of State was communicated on 19 April 2020. The texts were further adapted and then turned to the government. All procedures have been followed. Even for special royal orders, the procedure before the Council of State took 30 days. More precisely, as my collaborator tells me, the deadline for the Council of State was 5 days and the whole procedure lasted 30 days. Mrs. Tillieux said we had to work safely. It goes without saying that protective measures must be taken. Mrs Merckx also mentioned this. With regard to the question of types of personnel, in insurance, mutual care and occupational health services, there are doctors, nurses, dentists, pharmacists, physiotherapists, midwives, clinical psychologists, orthopedagogues, health professionals, ambulance attendants and paramedical professions. I also mention the pharmaceutical-technical assistant, audiologist, audiologist, bandagist, orthesist, prothesist, dietician, ergotherapist, oral hygienist, speechist, orthopedist, optometrist, podologist, medical laboratory technician and technologist medical imaging. All these professionals have training in health care and work in conjunction with the latter. But it will be necessary to find the woman or man who will be suitable for the position to be filled. In fact, it will be up to the applicant to provide us with information about the personnel he is looking for and needs. The search for the person who is likely to perform the function for some time will be carried out in collaboration with the health inspector. On this occasion, the distance between home and workplace, as stipulated in the text, will of course be taken into account. It is obvious that we are not going to ask a Namurian to come to a hospital on the coast for help. However, that framework list needs to be looked at. People aren't just gonna be deployed. Mrs Merckx, you say this is a declaration of war. Personally, I have never heard of that at the time when Mrs Onkelinx did exactly the same thing. I therefore conclude that, for you, when a socialist minister does this to protect people in health care services, it is a timely, thoughtful measure, and when a liberal minister does the same thing, it is a declaration of war. I find this really plattekes. In addition, all checks and scales are required. You're talking about acting staff. You're a general practitioner yourself. You know very well that nursing students, midwives are already recruited before they leave school. Sometimes they are already in the second year during their internship. It's not that we give them an interim contract. They often get insurance and a car on top. And rightly so, because they are necessary. In addition, in nursing homes, certain conditions are given. They already have a job, while they are not yet in possession of their diploma. I have always said that if there will be work in one sector in this country, it will be in the care sector. After all, we cannot move them, care must be given here, because the patients are here. So that is a branch of our employment which cannot simply be moved to other countries. Mr Bertels, you read it correctly, it is a last resort. We drew up a whole road map that we crossed last time. This is, in fact, the final point and I would like to stress once again that I hope that we will never need it. It's not like we're not going to apply the roadmap anymore because we have this now. The explanatory notes have been made and the professional association has been notified. They have said that they do not really have any major objections to this. Social dialogue has also taken place, but in the context of the special powers this is for information. However, it has been ensured that people will retain the betting scales and working conditions they had with their initial employer in the new employment. There were also questions about the insurance. It is true that the institution for which the claim must be made must ensure that the insurance is in order for these new people. If that is not the case, then they must put it right first. Mrs Tillieux, you asked me if hospitals and nursing homes were involved. In fact, it's valid for the whole country. As for psychiatric hospitals, we spoke in the Inter-Ministerial Conference about institutions under the supervision of, for example, Ms. Morreale or Mr. Maron. They will be informed in advance that there is consultation with the honourable Member on this matter. It'd be kind of weird if that didn't happen. Can someone who's been requisitioned refuse the requisition? I was asked if the independents could also be requisitioned. One can refuse, but it is the governor who will take care of this if certain professions in health care are necessary. If the claimed person is ill or has a burn-out, it seems obvious to me that we are not going to reclaim that person. By the way, there's a medical certificate. If a requisitioned health professional invokes a ground of impediment – medical reasons or a more urgent professional duty or other serious reason – he or she will have to notify the provincial governor as soon as possible that he or she has requisitioned it. It will be up to the latter to assess on a case-by-case basis the legitimacy of the ground invoked. That requisition is the last stick behind the door. Sufficient resources have been deployed to ensure that it does not come to a recovery. Mr Bertels, it is fully connected to the problem of corona in hospitals, residential care centres and wherever we need care. It is therefore not the intention at all to overrule future social dialogue. We have to call a cat a cat. It is a decision taken solely within the framework of the powers of attorney. We would never have a power of attorney in social consultation. You make it tempting, but no one will perform it. However, it is tempting. Mrs Gijbels, the legal provisions are indeed adequately covered. That confirms a few of our lawyers. As always, we are not asking for one legal opinion, but three legal opinions to check whether everyone agrees. Mrs Slegers, I have already answered the questions about insurance and the governors. Of course protective material is needed. The governors have an important role to play here as well as the provincial medical inspectors. It's good that we have them. It will also be reassuring for many hospitals. However, we have seen how quickly the situation in residential care centres, especially in Brussels and Wallonia, deteriorated. I am referring mainly to Brussels and Wallonia. Many nurses and caregivers either fell ill at the same time or stayed at home because they were exhausted. This can aggravate the situation very quickly. At that time, a tool must be available for immediate reaction. Care can't wait. People must be cared for permanently, whether there is staff or not. Then we have this measure as a stick behind the door.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u47	If the Minister has nothing more to add, then it is time for the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u48	Madam Minister, thank you for your explanation. A lot of things seem self-evident. You say, for example, that nurses will not be asked to be requisitioned at sea if they live in Namur or Luxembourg. We understand him well. Nevertheless, there are fears on the ground. I think we should reassure this staff who take these arrests like a slap in the face at a time when they are most involved and show a great deal of professionalism. I think there is a need for consultation, even if you say that we are in a period of special powers and that this is simply information. In this particular case, should we not take specific care of these teams on the ground because there is a gap in the understanding of the objective of the text deposited and the perception of this rule of requisition? A gesture would certainly be important to be able to explain and reassure. I would like to add a few questions. Shouldn't we have had to go through some kind of voluntary requisition through appeals by the governors before talking about sanctions in case of refusal? In addition, the protection of health-care workers is not annoyed. It is now known that many nurses in the VOCID-19 units have themselves been affected by the virus, creating absenteeism, gaping and exhaustion for the remaining teams. The issue of protective equipment therefore remains at the heart of the debate. All too often, however, it is understood that this material is limited. Should not measures be taken in terms of testing for staff? Indeed, its members are not always necessarily infected by the patients they treat, but sometimes also by asymptomatic colleagues when certain precautions are lightened – for example, during breaks. Should serological tests not be carried out on staff who are still on duty, so as to avoid the spread of the virus outside of medical activity? These are some questions that could feed into and supplement the reflection on this order on the requisition.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u49	Madam Minister, you accuse me of calling your measures a declaration of war to the caregivers because you would be a Liberal minister when I would have supported Ms. Onkelinx when she made requisitions. I did not specifically support Mrs Onkelinx at that time. I was not yet active in Parliament. I just want to read you a press release from the CSC about this royal decree but also about the others we talked about: "What we thought was a concertation meeting (between you and the unions) was a briefing but that looked strangely like a declaration of war with the healthcare staff." If I say you made a declaration of war to the health care staff, it's not from me, it's from the CSC union. In the same bell sound, but not exactly in the same terms, we read in a leaflet from the non-market sector's SETCA: "These royal decrees have not been the subject of any agreement. What we are asking for are the means, support and recognition of the minister." So I simply reflected the feeling of the staff who are being requisitioned today when they responded present from the beginning. In addition, you have not put everything in place to operate all the volunteers who have presented themselves. You didn't answer that problem at all. Finally, you act as if the difficult working conditions and temporary or temporary contracts do not exist in the sector, whether in hospitals or in nursing homes. Today, there are people, many caregivers, for example, who work on precarious or temporary contracts that have even been cancelled because of the coronavirus crisis. Listen to the carers! They're asking for consultation. They ask for the involvement of volunteers, regular screenings and protective equipment. In order to cope with the second wave and the reopening of chronic care, they ask that this be done in concert and in accordance with working conditions. Why not first mobilize people who are willing to do so and who have not been mobilised so far? I am thinking, for example, of medical students. They have many volunteers who have not been included today and would like to be useful in the fight against VOCID-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u50	Madam Minister, thank you for your explanation of this time lag. It is for me only part of the explanation, astonishment or anger according to each other's characteristics in the medical sector, as a result of this decree of special powers. I repeat that the gap between the moment of the decision when we had to prepare for the worst, and its communication, when everyone is tired of having given themselves so much, can cause this astonishment. However, I will add two elements concerning our relationships with the medical community and with all caregivers. On the issue of the provision of the necessary protective and testing equipment, we cannot be satisfied with the way in which the Federal State has operated. This very strongly feeds the anger of caregivers. Anything that can be implemented as quickly as possible, even if for some it is already too late, will be welcome. You are regularly questioned on the subject and we will continue to question you. Another element raises dissatisfaction that can be resolved more quickly. This is the question of the allocation of the resources of the White Blouse Fund that we voted for. Today, we have tired staff. This period of health stress showed that he was often in a shortage of labour. Difficult times like those we live lead to a lot of overtime and many sacrifices in terms of personal health and family life. I believe that the effective implementation of the White Blouse Fund, which has been voted on, may be one of the answers. The idea of ecologists in relation to this fund is to be able to set up teams of nurses, nurses who could be mobile and go to institutions where there are precisely labour problems. This would allow the workers concerned to take three or four days of rest, initially, to blow and, when we return in a more normal period in terms of public health, during these holidays, to take two or three weeks of consecutive leave, which is regularly impossible, given the lack of staff. In order to be able to respond to the commitment of those concerned, I think that we will have to, and you will have to, make efforts, simply to acknowledge their social usefulness, their usefulness in public health, but also the extraordinary efforts they have made in the context of this pandemic. I repeat, we hope that the hardest part is behind us, even though we know that this is going to last a little longer. This is the best way to solve this misunderstanding that may have occurred around this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u51	Madam Minister, Minister, thank you for the answers. Madam Secretary, I would like to raise three points. Firstly, you have explained that the statute on wage and working conditions and insurance has been established in the light of the opinion of the Council of State, and that is a good thing, because it is now legally covered. If it is ever applied, but hopefully not, we just need to make sure that it is done correctly. Secondly, let there be no misunderstanding: we will not settle a social agreement through the proxy decisions, as you will never get the consent from us. I assume and hope for your sake that you will never be tempted to do so. Wage and working conditions and social agreements must be left to social dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u52	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u53	You have completely misunderstood that, which is why I am correcting it. I wouldn't even put the word "snare" in my mouth. I'm very pragmatic. We leave social dialogue to the social partners. You need to facilitate that consultation. That brings me to my third point. Thirdly, that consultation should also be facilitated in the context of the implementation of the care staff fund. That is where consultations are currently taking place with your cabinet. Let that move forward and make sure that the care staff fund is used for what it serves: more hands on the bed. Let the discussions currently taking place with your cabinet finally result in a text that can be carried out on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u54	Minister, Minister, thank you for the information you have provided. I'm not a specialist in the field. Besides, I'm trying to react like a basic citizen. I must say that this meeting is very useful because it provides answers to a series of questions that many people are asking themselves. First of all, the term "requisition", whether in time of special powers or in normal times, is always problematic and generates some fear, even when it is preventive. My colleagues have asked a series of very interesting technical questions which have made one thing clear: you both provide answers to the questions you are asked, but these answers do not percolate to the staff concerned. There is, of course, the filter of social consultation which must be maintained. This consultation must be real and, above all, based on listening. But there is also a particular effort of information to be made about this possibility of requisitioning personnel during the period of coronavirus, under certain conditions. Madam Minister, yesterday I heard you answer questions from a RTL journalist, before going to the VRT corridors in the afternoon – I think – but that is not enough. More information is needed on this issue. Indeed, if ministers have assumed their responsibilities at the level of the enlarged kern, an additional effort must be made in terms of communication in order to ensure that the information is as clear as possible. It takes time. In any event, thanks to the explanations given to us in this committee, we have been able to better understand the reasons for these two decrees of special powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u55	Mr President, I did not answer a question originally asked by Mrs Merckx and then repeated by Mrs Tillieux. That question is about testing the caregivers. On 8 May, the RMG determined which people are eligible for the serological tests. Caretakers will be there. That will help us in that. Mrs. Tillieux talked about the volunteers being requisitioned. It's either one or the other: either you're a volunteer, and then it's always voluntary and it's not even asked, or it's a recovery. That's the story of the chicken or the egg. Ms. Merckx, you talked about the CSC's communication. I've known Mr. Hellendorf for a long time. Our relationships are difficult enough, to say the least. Nevertheless, we reached a social agreement a few years ago. I think he was wrong about the nature of the invitation. This was in fact a briefing on the text, not a negotiation. Mr Hellendorf probably thought that he could still negotiate this case. I would point out that he received all the information. With all the partners, we agreed not to actively communicate about it, because people are tired. As they began to breathe in the hospital, they were not going to be told of a requisition in the event of a second wave, at the risk of causing them trouble. Everyone stood up to that promise, except Mr Hellendorf, who did not bother. Mr Flahaut, you are absolutely right: we need to clarify to the healthcare staff. It is to support this that we have already taken many other steps. With regard to nurses working at home and in hospitals, we have guaranteed the BMF to save them from temporary unemployment. Similarly, we provided financial assistance to the General Union of Nurses of Belgium (UGIB-AUVB) totalling EUR 350 000 and made it possible to provide overtime. Philippe De Backer has launched several distributions of protective material. They're still going on, even this weekend. I think that means we'll have the care staff armed for the time being. The White Blouse Fund is the subject of social consultation. The care staff fund is the subject of social consultation. My cabinet gives all the support, but it's up to the social consultation to decide. But it's up to them to decide! The money's here! We have deposited the money; it is there, but one has to work with it. One would do better instead of writing pamphlets, because it is really necessary. We agree on that. It makes me angry. The money's been here a long time. The cow doesn't give milk. She is there, she grazes, she moans, but she doesn't give milk. That people are working on it instead of writing about it! I can't do that, I can't do that, I can only hold the pen. I'm only allowed to pay for it. The money's here. It's obvious, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u56	That one stays in one's barn until one has an agreement and then come out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u57	Right, I'd be jokingly suggesting that we follow the Vatican method, although I can't predict where that will lead, but okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u58	Mr President, I take note of the minister's anger at the White Blouse Fund. I believe that it joins me on at least one point: if we find a solution to the allocation of the resources of the White Blouse Fund, and in particular from the perspective I have stated, that is, the creation of flying teams that can relieve a little pressure on the ground, we will already have a better understanding and a better relation at the level of medical staff. It refers the responsibility for the non-allocation of these funds to the difficulty of reaching agreement at the level of the social partners in the hospital sector. I take note of this, but I really want to encourage him to work on solutions at this level. We will also do our part, as from the beginning, since Parliament, to contribute to it as well. What we want is solutions. I think that we will agree at least on one aspect: that medical personnel, nurses, really deserve a political signal in relation to the role they have played and also the recognition that their working conditions have deteriorated and that this has to be corrected. In any case, it is a commitment at the level of environmentalists to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u59	We thank the Minister for the Interior, who will now answer questions in the Committee on the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u60	Minister, it's really amazing what you said about Mr Hellendorf in a personal way. Indeed, when the CSC publishes a leaflet, it is not on behalf of Mr Hellendorf but on behalf of the staff. I would also like to remind you that the SETCA, among other things, has made the same request for consultation, Madam Minister. This also shows, for me in any case, the undemocratic nature of the special powers. Indeed, since you are acting within the framework of the special powers – I would like to remind the PS and ECOLO that they are also responsible – you are laying down a royal order of requisition and no longer even deign to discuss it with the unions. This is, therefore, a setback to social consultation. Mr Bertels, I am telling you too, because I think that Mr Conorosso (?) He also agreed to this royal decree, which is a major problem in democracy, because this royal decree does not meet the needs on the ground at all. What people are asking is to be tested, to have working conditions, which are negotiated with labour unions, where you can practice safely to help patients who need them. That's what they did! So they didn't need a royal requisition order.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answers to the question of serological testing. This will provide a solution to the issue of protection within the teams, which are waiting. To focus on protection is necessary for the serenity of the teams – when they return to their families, they need to know and be protected – and to ensure the presence of staff. Thank you for moving forward in this direction. I hope we never need this requisition order. It is like insurance, but we hope that we do not need it and that the figures will remain favourable. This order has a limited lifespan, it is important to remind him. At a time when nurses have seen their education extend, it is not a good signal to say that everyone can practice nursing. Today we are in an exceptional period and exceptional times, exceptional solutions. Finally, we need to use the flexibility of resources and the voluntarism of the teams. If we are going in this direction and if the concertation could be initiated – I know that you have only the duty to inform – then listening is also important in order to calm things down. I know you can.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u62	Then I will close the discussion on KB No. 16 down.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u63	Colleagues, we come to KB No. 9. This KB has the same objective, but uses another method, i.e. the temporary authorisation of nursing by non-competent healthcare professionals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u64	Mr President, some of the comments made here are the same as those made in the previous Royal Decree. I won't repeat them. Perhaps it is interesting, Madam Minister, to give you a little more detail on the concept of "formation" to be given to the caregivers who are being used to "act nurse." You can thus remove the unrest on the ground. There are also the responsibilities of those involved when they carry out these tasks. After all, it says that they are responsible themselves. There too you can remove the unrest. In this context, you can also ensure that this is not a preliminaries to other discussions that have been going on for years about KB No. 78. I hope you're not tempted to handle this by proxy, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u65	That was about the same question I just heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u66	Mr President, Madam Minister, following on from what Mr Bertels has just said, the third condition of the new measure concerns the training that these people must undergo. The Council of State states in an opinion that it is legally certain to describe what is meant in concrete terms by training. I quote: 'The indeterminateness of these words, in particular as regards the minimum content of such training and its duration, does not provide sufficient legal certainty for the addressees of the design, given the context in which they must act in order to safeguard the health of patients.' The provision states that "a training given by a doctor or nurse shall be carried out prior to the establishment of the activities, both as regards the activities and as regards the necessary protective measures." In any event, regardless of whether the text adopted meets that minimum definition of what is meant by the word 'formation', it is clear that it does not include the duration of the formation, in spite of the opinion of the Council of State. Madam Minister, why was the opinion not followed on this issue? What about the legal uncertainty for the addressees to which the Council of State expressly refers in its opinion?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u67	Mr President, this order is clearly seen by nurses, but also by union representatives, as a devalorisation of their profession. We are here again in the face of an incomprehension. For them, the Royal Decree suggests that skills can be easily transferred while nurses have completed four, sometimes five or six years of study. Notwithstanding this, knowledge can be transferred from a slamming of fingers to other caregivers, while studies show that the more highly qualified nurses at a patient's bedside, the lower the mortality rate. According to the order, all providers recognized by law will be able to carry out these nursing acts, from dentists to physiologists and caregivers, and I will do so. We will be able to address the issue of training and, above all, the guarantee of quality of care. How can we train quickly and, above all, adequately, in an emergency situation like today? The Council of State also says: "The scheme should describe in a legally secure manner what is meant by the word "training". The indefinite nature of this word, in particular as regards the minimum content of the training and its duration, does not ensure sufficient legal certainty for the recipients of the project, taking into account the context in which they are called upon to intervene in order to preserve the health of patients." It is again a question of context that is highlighted. I would also like to raise the question of the responsibility of the professionals who are going to carry out these nursing acts. The conditions for delegation of these activities remain extremely unclear in terms of responsibility, both for the doctor who has delegated the care, and for the non-infirmary staff who will tomorrow take these activities. It is all the more disturbing that the report to the King states: "It goes without saying that the health care practitioner so sought will obviously have to behave as a good father of the family and judge himself whether he has the capacity to perform the nursing activities in question. This is an evaluation that will fall under its responsibility. It is true that this is not an easy task that will be asked of them, but the period of crisis that our country is currently facing involves exceptional measures and only the involvement of the largest number of healthcare professionals will enable us to deal with this health crisis as effectively and as dignifiedly as possible." Referring to the explanation in the report to the King, it is clear that responsibility would lie solely with the non-nursing staff who would provide these nursing services. I would like clarification on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u68	I have the same reservations as my colleagues, particularly with regard to education. I also wonder whether it is not necessary to define training more clearly and whether it is also necessary to document and standardize such training, because it is necessary to end up in unknown areas and also to deal with fragile patients. It is therefore very important that the formation is sound and well-defined. Another aspect is the functional partnership. This is defined as a cooperation between non-competent healthcare professionals and doctors or nurses. I can imagine that such a thing is already more obvious in a hospital environment than, for example, in a residential care centre, where doctors are probably not present daily or continuously. Shouldn't it be more and more clearly defined what that means exactly?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u69	Mr President, as an MR group, we are well aware that nursing requires very thorough knowledge and effective training. In fact, the training now lasts four years of study. Of course, I am sure that this decree had no intention of wringing the nursing world by minimizing the importance of their training and the importance of their qualification. Of course, it is always preferable for nursing to be provided by qualified nurses. But the purpose of this order, as we understand it, in the crisis of the VOCID-19 that we have to deal with is to be able to remedy a possible shortage of staff, in case there is a saturation of our hospital services and our resuscitation services. In this case, and only in these circumstances, we understand that it is possible, thanks to this order, to react and increase the number of caregivers and the teams with caregivers who are not nurses, who would not be trained for this, but who would still have the basis to be caregivers, in order to allow qualified nurses to be released from part of their workload to devote themselves more effectively to patients who require essential care. I believe that the Royal Decree responds to a series of comments made by the Council of State, since it is clearly stated that the training provided by a doctor or nurse concerns the necessary protective activities and measures and that functional cooperation must be a collaboration between unskilled health care professionals and doctors and nurses who can provide their training and supervision. In a well-understood context of exhaustion and fragility, resulting from the enormous commitment of all the healthcare staff, I regret that this royal decree is perceived as an offence, even though that was absolutely not the purpose. In particular, as proof, I would like to refer to the 1° of the amended Article 148-1 of the Royal Decree, which states that acts may be carried out by non-medical personnel "in the absence of a sufficient number of persons legally qualified to carry out these acts found – I insist – by the medical officer or the chief nurse" – actions which the pandemic makes necessary. Minister, a minimum consultation has taken place. However, the General Union of Nurses of Belgium reacted by regretting the method used and lamenting the content of this decree. So to what extent could you display a gesture of openness and dialogue? In this way you would recall that it is only – in the unfortunate case of a second wave – to allow this qualified staff, executive doctor or nurse, to see the lack of legally qualified caregivers and then to call upon people they would train to carry out acts they would choose and supervise. Given the present context, this seems to me to be very important. As you have indicated, the peak is now exceeded. We hope he won't come back because of the deconfinity. However, we know that this does not mean that the virus has disappeared. As such, I am concerned that in our capital or in other cities, there are queues in front of the shops. We need a lot of medical staff, which we applaud every night at 8:00 p.m. Therefore, minister, could you explain better the strategy contained in this royal decree?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u70	Madam Minister, I have two further comments to make to the Royal Decree, which gives us some cause for concern about the future. The profession of nurse has been a bottleneck profession for many years and we have long needed more hands on the bed. This KB is temporary and will remain in force until the end of 2020. It is clear to us that this should not be a preliminaries to any future amendment to Royal Decree No. 78, which determines who can perform which tasks. I would like to emphasise that. This KB is temporary and serves to overcome the current crisis, but the care provided must of course always be safe. The KB provides that a doctor and a nurse first provide training to the care provider, but this could have been made more clear. What exactly does this training include? How much time is it? What kind of training will it be? Perhaps this can still be refined, so that it is applied in the same way everywhere. Finally, what profiles do you have in mind? We are, of course, thinking of caregivers and caregivers. Do you seek them to perform these actions temporarily, provided that they are formed? Do you have any other profiles in mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u71	Mr President, Madam Minister, this royal decree not only caused the unions to react, but also the General Union of Nurses of Belgium by means of a press release. It is still quite worrying to note that while article 45 of the Act of 10 May 2004 provides for 4,600 hours of theoretical and clinical instruction for a nurse's training, the latter is swept away from the back of the sleeve by a few sentences inscribed in this decree. This way of doing things seems pretty dangerous to me. In nursing studies, it is emphasized that nurses must be qualified, based on the principle that this qualification is a guarantee of quality. This is why the duration of these studies has been extended. This qualification reduces the mortality of patients, all the more so in the case of new diseases, such as VOCID-19. Through their training, nurses can play a role in monitoring the patient and interpreting clinical signs. This training and the many courses they have taken enable them to respond adequately and thus improve the quality of care. Another problem is that the Royal Order under review does not take into account the fact that many nurses perform tasks that could be performed by caregivers, such as meal distribution and hygiene care. Nurses are also asking for more health care workers or logistical skills to help them focus on their work. Minister, what are the expected training conditions? I think I know there's none. In doing so, a laboratory technician or a physiotherapist will be able to carry out an intravenous infusion after training for about 30 minutes, for example. That raises the question. The second problem is the responsibility of the person. I quote what is included in the royal decree. "It goes without saying that the practitioner himself must judge whether he has the necessary competence. That assessment will be his responsibility." For example, when a care professional is asked to give an injection for which he does not feel well formed, is it the responsibility of that care professional if an error is found afterwards? That seems to me to be a major problem in the application of this power of attorney decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u72	Madam Secretary, many questions have been asked. You'll have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already answered some of the questions raised in this Chamber, including the question of the professions that are eligible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u74	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u75	Mr Bertels, it is true that education must be given. You asked several colleagues why that was not written out. The reason is that we do not know who will be eligible for what task. It depends on the basic formation that the person has already enjoyed. For a doctor, for example, it seems obvious to me that he should not learn to inject or take the blood pressure, but other things will have to be learned at a physicist. So it would be way too complex. However, the text stipulates that training must be provided by a doctor or nurse and that there must always be work within a partnership, within a framework, also under the supervision of those responsible. So nothing can ever be asked without the intervention of a doctor or a nurse. In addition, Mrs Merckx's question is whether a care professional can be asked to give an injection if he does not consider himself capable of doing so. The answer is no. One must refuse to do something that one does not see fit to do. That's always the case in medicine. This is clearly defined in the WUG Act and is now applicable. Mr Van Langenhove, I have already answered the question of training. The professions I mentioned concern people with varying initial training. It will be necessary to examine who is to be used and which training is most compatible with what needs to be filled in. The question is right, I realize it, but the complexity in the field is very large. We do not know in advance whether it will be residential care centres, psychiatric hospitals or hospital services. This is all very different and therefore the training to be given will also be very different. Mrs Tillieux, you're asking me if it's not a devaluation. No. When we informed the association of the representatives of the trade, she was concerned about whether it was temporary, which is obviously the case. Moreover, it is not a devaluation of their profession because this does not affect the decisions to be taken in the context of the reform. You also say you're worried when you see people in the parking lot at Action or Ikea. It bothers me too. It's obvious you don't have to be in the parking lot at 7:00 a.m. to get into a store at 9:00 a.m.! People should wait a few days because it's also a stress for employees in these stores. That also brings stress to the staff, when there are so many people walking in the parking lot and if everyone wants to go in right away. I wonder what is being sold there that is so attractive that one cannot wait a day. You say you have to have a guarantee of quality of care. That is why I wonder about the help that the military has given them, despite all the respect I have given them. I wonder about their ability to treat people. Come on! The military, by virtue of their education and training, is not intended to go to wash people in nursing homes. The military did that in times of war, yes. There is now a kind of war against the virus, but if we have the opportunity to use people with more education, I believe that this would bring more benefits for the people who need to be cared for. Supervision is necessary at every moment and not only during the entire training. Everyone is and will remain responsible for the actions he or she makes. It is also the responsibility of the people in charge, the doctor or the nurse, to organise the care properly. The person concerned may decide whether he or she has the capacity to carry out the activities in question. It is not easy, but those who give the training must take this into account correctly in what they are asked to do. The person concerned shall be responsible for the proper conduct of the nursing activities to which he is trained. The rules of general law shall apply, taking into account the exceptional circumstances in which the measure is applied. There is an old article in the WUG Act that states that in times of war and disasters a deviation can happen and care can be provided by people other than others in a stricter framework. We did not want to take advantage of that, because that would have been and would have been tough. However, we have chosen to establish a stricter framework, to ask for advice, to inform people and to ensure that the training is given by a doctor or nurse. It is indeed a temporary measure. Mrs. Slegers, we're not supposed to move everyone. We're gonna make as few trips as possible. It may be that a care professional has to take over a few tasks from a nurse, temporarily, because that nurse is going to do other business. We mainly look at profiles in other healthcare professions, the ones I have listed: podologists, logopedists and the like, all at the Bachelor's level, so the same level, with a Bachelor's programme of three or four years. This too is something that we hope will not have to use, but that depends on the behaviour of each of us. It is not encouraging for a further relaxation if people do not use their common sense and all stand in the parking lot in front of a warehouse. After all, the rule is to turn one's cart when one sees that there is a lot of people. Then go back home and come back later. It would probably be easier if it rained. Yesterday, for example, there were remarkably fewer people on the streets compared to the day before yesterday and the weather probably played a role in that. I don't think people wait three hours for a parking lot when it rains. The climate can help us in this, but we will have to repeat the message: use your common sense and turn around when there is too many people. One can also work by appointment, for example. Probably one doesn't have a bed to sleep in if one has to join Ikea for 3 hours. These are also shops where you can order online. Anyway, it's not up to me to make that process. The opening of shops to the public at some point is certainly a concern. It's all there and everyone thinks he'll be the only one. There's not much we can do about that. That is the consequence of the fact that everything was suddenly closed, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u76	Mr President, all these explanations do not reassure me. However, it should not be underestimated that managers of nursing homes or hospitals are not necessarily philanthropists and that there is, especially in the head of nursing homes, a logic of profitability already present in normal times. However, there is pressure on less qualified personnel, including caregivers, to perform tasks that need to be performed by more qualified personnel, such as nurses. A nurse is paid at a different rate than a caregiver. And, of course, it makes it easier for some managers to do this by less qualified staff. I am therefore afraid that this special order will be a little forerunner of a deregulation of the sector. Delegating certain tasks to unskilled staff can have a negative impact on the quality of care. I'm worried about that. Minister, you say that the caregiver should not perform a task if she does not feel responsible. I hope that this caregiver is represented by a good trade union delegation who can defend her in this particular case. We must remain extremely vigilant. I call on the unions to be so and not to hesitate to bring up problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u77	Minister, this royal order has a specified duration, until the end of December 2020. I know that it was taken after other dossiers which had been mentioned, in the idea of possibly allowing acts to be carried out normally by nurses, by caregivers. This is probably the cause of much discontent in the sector following the publication of this Royal Order VOCID-19. I have not heard from you a possibility like the one I suggested, that is to say, to resume language with the sector, and with different domes of the nursing sector, or with the General Union of Nurses of Belgium to reframe the context, scope and intentions behind this royal decree, in order to calm the current climate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u78	Minister, the issue of accountability remains a sensitive one. People who will have to act will be clearly responsible when they may not have all the keys to grasp the ins and outs. There is also the question of the short training which could be delivered but which is not defined today. The list of nursing acts is not for nothing, there is work to be done on this side. I know that we are still in an urgent situation and that if the situation were to arise with this staff, texts would quickly clarify things. I also wonder if we will have a real cadastre of nurses still active today, with the place of activity and the sector of activity. There have been a lot of difficulties with the lists, especially in the distribution of masks. I imagine that the decrees we are talking about today will make it possible to realize the importance of having an up-to-date cadastre of those on whom we can rely to practice nursing. I will also reiterate the desire to be able to value the health professionals who are now in direct use and permanently exposed to VOCID-19 patients. We're waiting for a re-evaluation and you said that resources were available. Let us hope that this will happen in consultation and that you will cut short some rumours about the possibility of prolonging these orders. It is clear that things are temporary and marked and you need to communicate about them to reassure this staff on which we rely a lot today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u79	The Royal Decree was published on 2 May. Mrs Tillieux believes that we are still waiting for texts, but the publication has taken place. One can see through it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u80	I am not saying that the texts are not published. They're published! But I think there's a lot of fear. It was precisely the published texts that gave rise to these fears, because their supervision was not sufficient. I believe that your task today will be precisely to explain better, to frame, to limit things so as not to cause anger to roar, as is sometimes the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u81	The final verdict will have to be expressed here at the time of ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u82	Madam Secretary, you seem to find the match between the military and the residential care centers not very well cast.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u83	Mrs Gijbels, I did not say that. I've just been wondering if that's really a task for the military. After all, they have been deployed with many and for a long time. I have therefore wondered whether people who have already received medical training would not do the job at least as well or even better. I also added my appreciation for the fact that the military did that work. You've only been half listening.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u84	Madam Secretary, I'm glad to hear that. Of course, it was military personnel with medical education. So they are not inferior. They have also been fully committed to the establishment of the quarantine hospital from the start of the crisis. They have also given training to the staff of the residential care centres on the correct use of the protective materials. They have also been very active in the transport of sick people between hospitals. So I would just like to take this opportunity to stress that they have done a wonderful job.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u85	That is true, like so many professional categories, who have given and still give the best of themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, we can proceed to the discussion of Royal Decree No. 18 establishing a database of Sciensano. Who wants to talk about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u86	Mr President, there is an exceptional situation which requires exceptional measures. We realized that it was important to set up a database to collect and share information in order to fight coronavirus. We are pleased that a royal decree takes steps to ensure as much confidentiality as possible of the data collected and used by Sciensano. It was important that this be done by experts from the Risk Management Group. I would point out that the Royal Decree takes account of the observations made by the Data Protection Authority. There is also the intervention of the Social Security and Health Chamber of the Information Security Committee, in accordance with the GDPR. That's a positive point. We are already one week away from the implementation of the database. Do we already have an evaluation? In the Committee on the Economy last week, I had told the minister that there were difficulties in accessing the database for doctors who had to encode the information. I do not know if this problem is now resolved. The Royal Decree states that the end date of its effects is June 4 and that the data must be deleted by June 9 at the latest. We discussed the fact that there would be a bill first and then finally, it would be a bill. What end date will be expected? What do the Risk Management Group's experts advise on this? The text as published does not contain specific provisions on the criminal liability of persons having access to the data. Is an analysis carried out on this subject? Second, the data had to be deleted by 9 June 2020 at the latest. However, they may, in pseudonymized form, be kept for up to 30 years after the death of the person and, in an anonymized form, even longer. We know that pseudonymization is not an anonymization. This is a series of figures, which still makes it possible to reconnect the information to the data subject. Why not have planned anonymization from the moment the data were erased for data processing for the purpose of fighting VOCID, but were pseudonymized for research purposes. I wonder if it would have been better to anonymize them right away. Indeed, a period of 30 years after the death of a person may be considered a very long period. Moreover, the manual tracing that is covered by this royal decree of special powers – experts agree – is much more invasive of privacy than digital tracing well understood within the limits of the European Commission and its tool box. For the time being, the Regions are moving and implementing this manual tracing and do not seem to be moving much in relation to a digital tracing application, but on the other hand, it cannot be ruled out that a private company offers citizens the use of an application. As a result, I believe that a legislative framework should be put in place as soon as possible to regulate and, in a way, encourage digital applications. In fact, an article appeared in the press this morning indicating that, in the end, digital tracing would be less invasive than this manual tracing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u87	Madam Secretary, I have a whole series of questions. The first concerns the opinion of the Council of State, which apparently has not been requested this time. Is it true that this was not requested because of the time pressure? Is it true that a legislative proposal will be submitted by the government groups in the near future to provide a definitive legal basis for this database? Will the opinion of the Council of State be requested for this, or has that already happened? The next question is about the non-clinical labs that are switched on for testing. After all, they will have access to this database and I think it is the first time that non-clinical labs have been used to deal with patient studies. These are labs from the pharmaceutical and biotech industries. Couldn't this be an obstacle to such a sensitive database? Are there any extra locks built in? It can be imagined that, for example, these labs will also be involved in the development of vaccines. Can't that be a problem? Will sloppy or incorrect handling of personal data by the employees of these non-clinical labs be considered an infringement of professional secrecy? Will that be checked? My third question concerns the security of the database. This morning, I read disturbing reports in the newspaper about programming errors that the Flemish Agency for Health and Health would have identified in the testing last week. We would be solving these problems right now. I hope that we can expect the highest possible level of security for such a database. Who is responsible for the development and further programming of the database? Is that Smals? Are there other IT companies involved, possibly in subcontracting? If so, which one? What safety measures have been taken? Is the database on one central server or on multiple servers? Where are these servers located? What is the backup policy? How is digital access to the database regulated? Is there a direct access via the Internet? Is there authentication? If so, how does it happen? Is logging provided for who makes searches in the database? Minister, as the Minister responsible for Privacy, you are also responsible for the transposition and compliance of the GDPR in our country. In this RB, a filtering function is assigned to the Information Security Committee. That filtering function shall determine who is given access to which types of personal data from the database and for which processing. Is that filtering function in accordance with the GDPR and in particular with the principles of responsibility and transparency? Wouldn't it have been easier to specify in the KB itself for each type of processing who may supply or receive which personal data? How will the pseudonymisation of the data be done, especially when they are transferred from the database for research purposes? Is the safest technical solution chosen for this? For persons who have been in contact with infected or potentially infected, Article 2 (4) states that a high or low risk will be assigned to certain persons. Who's gonna assess that risk? Doctors? On the basis of what parameters are these risks estimated? Is that evolving as science evolves? Can it not be useful to keep track of the outcome of a possible CT scan for the non-hospitalised patients and to supplement Article 2 (2) in that sense? This can now be done for hospitalised patients, but apparently not for non-hospitalised patients. I look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u88	Mr President, tracing, whether electronic or manual, is an indispensable tool in the management of the pandemic and in the exit from containment, to quickly identify the sick and the people who have been in contact with them, and to prevent the spread of the virus. However, we must not do things in any way. This is the concern of environmentalists from the beginning. With regard to the decree which was adopted here without the opinion of the Council of State, there is a very critical opinion of the Data Protection Authority, to which we are obviously very sensitive. I think that is why it has been decided to give a very limited lifespan to this royal decree, until it can be reworked in Parliament in the form of a bill, with a true opinion of the Council of State and the taking into account of the resolution voted last week, on our initiative, with the support of a very large majority of colleagues, on how to do things, to protect privacy in this context, to avoid the possible commercial use of the data that have been collected, to protect our citizens. It is a pragmatic, hybrid and creative solution that has been decided, and it can only be accepted as such, by its pragmatic and temporary nature. But I would say that this is above all a new illustration of the unpreparedness of our society and our health care system, in relation to such a virus. We can regret it, but I'm not gonna cry on the spilled milk. Above all, I hope that, very quickly, beyond the work already carried out on the basis of this provisional decree, we will be able to do things in the right order, both in the interests of the efficiency of data collection and the protection of our citizens, but above all also in the respect of their privacy, because the end does not always justify the means. This is a solution that is not very elegant but pragmatic. I hope that we can quickly arrive at something more solid and satisfying.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u89	Mr President, my group and I make a fundamental distinction between database and digital application. On the basis of other legislation, there is a law that regulates tracing, but there is no regulation that allows guarantees to be offered for databases on personal data that are collected in such a large scale. Today, these databases are mainly used for germ diseases such as tuberculosis – which concerns only 1,000 cases per year – or measles, when we are here in another setting. I make the distinction, and I have always made it, because it is necessary to legislate for a database, but the question of the need to legislate for an application still needs to be debated, particularly in this House. So there are two debates. The need to legislate on the basis – it is the text we are dealing with today – certainly exists. Should we go through a royal decree of special powers or a piece of legislation discussed here? You went through a royal decree of special powers because there was an emergency and because the NSC's agenda called for the regions to be disfellowshiped. The latter, unable to deconfuse without deconfining and tracking tools, set up manual tracing and this database. But this database and this royal decree of special powers suffer from a whole series of shortcomings. Some were also raised in a very critical 18-page opinion of the Data Protection Authority. Corrections have been made, following this opinion, in particular with regard to the definition of the persons concerned. In the past, the citizens concerned were targeted, whereas the citizens covered by Article 2 are now targeted, etc. Some clarifications were therefore given. But in the meantime, we are still not part of a legislative norm. However, I continue to believe that, as was the case with the other text, it is essential to be able to have such a standard. We did not receive any opinion from the Council of State on this, which was also indispensable. Furthermore, we did not receive an opinion from the Data Protection Authority on the corrected text, following its opinion on the first text, which is regrettable. In any case, this text is moving forward, even if it is limited. Minister, as indicated, this limited text will cease to have effect on June 4. However, personal data will be deleted on 9 June, five days later, by the controller. As we recall in Article 3, the final paragraph of the text under consideration refers to the separate regional entities, namely the Vlaams Agentschap Zorg & Gezondheid, the AViQ for the Walloon Region, the Ministry of the German-speaking Community and the COCOM in Brussels. So these are the controllers who are supposed to erase the data on June 9. Nevertheless, before 4 June, before the data are collected, and before 9 June, before the data is erased, Sciensano will be able to transmit the data to specific categories in pseudonymized form. This means that the controller who decides to delete the data on 9 June will not erase them completely since the data previously transmitted by Sciensano to categories which will be defined, but which may be broad, could be deleted, provided that they are pseudonymized, as my colleague Mrs Gilson has said, within 30 years of the death of the person who was pseudonymized. I don't know how we can erase a person's data that we don't identify anymore, but that's another question. So there's a whole series of beacons. I would like to know how we do it, in this temporality; so on June 4th, we stop encoded, on June 9th, we can erase. But after 9 June, there remains a time limit where data exists, even though the data controllers' willingness was to erase them. Who, at that time, is responsible for the processing of this data? If the controller has asked to erase the data, who will be responsible for processing partially or totally deleted data after 9 June? That's my first question. Indeed, there were enormous concerns about the database itself; these concerns had been expressed at a committee in this Chamber. The question was raised as to the relationship between Sciensano and the database and the Bank-Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale (BCSS). The concern was that there would be a link between these two databases, the BCSS on the one hand and the VOCID database; it was requested that if this were to occur in Sciensano, there would be no possibility of linking these two databases. Today, however, we see that in the VOCID database, one of the essential elements for identifying people is the social security number. Does this mean that there is a connection with BCSS or not? I am simply asking the question, minister, and I would like to have an answer here. There is also the question of data security that was asked of us. You remember, Minister, that the State Security has intervened by indicating that, given the number of data that will be encoded, the databases are important. In terms of the management and security of these contents, additional security guarantees are needed. State Security had intervened. Is it stored in Belgium or elsewhere? By whom is it stored at this stage? Does Sciensano store the data itself? Is there subcontracting for data storage? If so, with which operator? Some data are sometimes somewhat evasive. When we talk about "accredited epidemiologist," I don't know who we're targeting. I know that the Data Protection Authority had explicitly requested, in Article 3, § 1, 2°, that "support for future policy" should be withdrawn. I smiled because we were wondering what the "future" was. The word "future" has been removed and it has become "or to carry out studies of support to politics" past, present or future, I presume. Since the word "future" has been deleted, it is not circumscribed. Semantic issues still need to be discussed, and that is why it is important that we can move forward as quickly as possible with a legislative text in Parliament and with guarantees given to us. Minister, I think you also agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u90	Mr President, many of the points I wanted to make have already been raised by Mr Gijbels, among others. I think it would be more useful for everyone to wait for the answer to be able to replicate extensively if necessary. Two points, however. Firstly, the opinion of the Council of State. It is a bit easy and cheap to use the argument of the urgent need not to ask for that advice, especially since we have been in this crisis for seven weeks now, or at least since the moment when everyone was aware of what kind of crisis we are in. Secondly, the scope of Article 458 of the Criminal Code on professional secrecy. The report to the King stresses that the staff of the contact centre will fall within that scope. Why was it not included in the final text design for the sake of privacy? That's what I'd like to know. I would also like to ask a lot of questions about the desirability and usefulness of these provisions. With regard to the scope, definitions and anonymisation, my group, like apparently many other groups, would also like to be clarified. After all, this is about privacy, a fundamental right of our citizens. I look forward to your comprehensive answers, to replicate them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u91	Mr President, having a federal data platform was urgent. Today 700 people are on standby in Flanders, which can grow to 1,200 if necessary, to look for people with whom COVID-19 patients have come into contact. They must contact them and provide guidance. The last week was a trial run and we could read in the media today that this did not run smoothly in the test phase last week. Our federal data platform the researchers used last week would contain a number of programming errors. That was reported to the developers. I would like to see every effort made to ensure that the database can function as well and efficiently as possible. The success of the contact tracing currently taking place in our regions stands or falls with a very good basis for and quality of the data in the database. It is very important to me that we quickly have a correct database that works well. A second sensitive point is the protection of data in the database. There's a large group of people going into the database. Another large group of contact trackers will use the data in the database. The right matches must of course be done. Their security must be monitored very closely. I would have liked the guarantee that you will both follow this very closely and ensure that no wheel turns off in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u92	My first question is simple. Why did you arrange this through a KB and not through a law, as planned for the app? The explanatory statement states that the agents of the call centers are subject to medical secrecy. If we look at the profile for the contact trackers, we'll see that anyone can apply for it. What are the chances or risks of me getting someone on the phone who has nothing to do with health? This is not normally outsourced either. For example, there are quite a few call centres located in Morocco, especially for the French speakers. These people must also carry out certain medical procedures, in particular risk assessment. What's the control that's going to happen to that? How is medical professional secrecy applied to non-medical persons? It is about very sensitive information that people will be asked about. One will ask, for example, how many people have been in contact over the last few weeks, although the rules may not have been respected. I'm thinking, for example, of someone who does dirty work. To what extent will the information collected be used against the persons providing it? This is an important question which has been raised in various opinions. To what extent will it be ensured that the database is not used or abused to control people? The Social Security and Health Board shall have full decision-making powers over the data. Who's in there? How is the transparency of this room guaranteed? The Royal Decree allows to search missing data in the National Register and in the Crossroads Bank. However, last week in the discussion about the app it was stated that this is forbidden. Finally, how will you disclose the DPIA (Data Protection Impact Assessment) of this Royal Decree and the Sciensano database? This was also discussed last week in the context of the Corona app (...) approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u93	Minister, Minister, I will confine myself to my comments on the database and not on the app. We will have the discussion on this afterward. Nor will I talk about the tracers, a debate that we should not have at this level. The database will be a useful and necessary tool for further containment of COOVID-19. We will need that instrument in the context of testing and contact tracing. I assume that the database works well and is well used and that all kinds of control techniques are in place. That is probably a concern of all of us. Improper use should be avoided. For that there is a set of instruments. Here too, we will have to ensure that these instruments are used properly, because they are personal data and even medical data. We must treat them with caution and treat them confidentially, only for legitimate purposes. I assume that we are using the existing set of tools for monitoring access and security control. The temporary data collection and processing by Sciensano is therefore necessary and useful; the KB is fortunately only running until 4 June. Then there will be a basic or framework law, which will have to transpose the directives or regulations from the Royal Decree-Law. We had an explicit request for an opinion from the Council of State. That would also be effective. The Data Protection Authority will also, of course, be able to give its opinion on it again, which will hopefully make it easier to incorporate all the comments made by the Data Protection Authority on the KB into the draft law that we will shortly be discussing here. It is a good thing that we can have a wide-ranging discussion on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u94	The two ministers have the floor, but I fear that the discussion we are having today will be repeated in the specialist committee when the legislative initiative is discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u95	Mr President, first of all, I would like to say that it is the regions that bear the responsibility for contact research. When we were faced with a serious enlargement, we were asked to allow certain data flows at the federal level. We then undertook to make the legislative framework on this issue. Of course, we waited until they made it clear to us how they see it and what the important aspects are for them. That's why we had to work with two periods. First there is the proxy decision to start the database on time, during the déconfinement. I said at the time that such a database would be better framed by a legislative proposal. That is why I have committed myself to giving Parliament the opportunity to submit a legislative initiative for a month, for which the opinion of both the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority can be requested, including for amendments on this matter. That story is now in your hands and I hope that it can start this week, so that the deadline, which only runs until 4 June, can be fully used for the implementation of the legal framework. In view of the urgency, we have chosen not to pass the Council of State but to ask the Data Protection Authority for an opinion. That opinion, together with its observations, has already been incorporated in the power of attorney decision. There were a lot of questions about the practical effects. I would very much like to refer to the report of the Information Security Committee, which provides a very clear answer to questions about processing, who is responsible, what the data flows are, where the database is kept or who has access to it. That is all very comprehensive and meticulously explained. Mr President, with your permission, I would like to refer to that. Sciensano will manage the database. It will, of course, be surrounded by all possible security aspects, as is the case with other sensitive data held by the government today. I refer, for example, to the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. In that kind of framework and protection we also provide for the new database. It is indeed very sensitive information about people, for which the highest level of protection is needed, and we also provide for it. You can find many of the technological and other measures we take to protect the data in the decision of the Information Security Committee. I would like to go into a number of specific aspects in more detail. First of all, the system will work as follows. The call center agents do not have access to medical information as such. They will be given a call order, i.e. the order to call someone, and then they will have to follow a number of scripts that have been worked out in collaboration with virologists and epidemiologists and which have been approved by the interfederal committee, in which the regions and the federal level are represented. They will add certain data to the database, just like the clinical labs and other labs that work with the central platform will charge test data but will never be able to get data. Call centre agents must ensure in the contracts they enter into with regional authorities that all elements of data protection are present and they will sign a contract clearly stating that they are bound by the same professional secrecy as a doctor. That seems logical to me, even if they don't work with medical records. There should be no ambiguity as to whether data should be disseminated. In addition, the Information Security Committee will have an important role to play. In fact, it must authorise and ensure that everything is cleared up correctly and that it is done correctly. Moreover, it is Parliament that appoints the Information Security Committee, just as it does the members of the Data Protection Authority, which gives opinions on legislation through the Knowledge Centre. Here too, our approach has been very clear and meticulous to ensure that the right people can provide the advice. The links between different databases are also an important aspect. Sciensano will manage the database and frame it in a good way. A lot of data in the database comes from people who already have contacts with certain databases today, such as doctors and hospitals. Sometimes, however, there is a gap in the data. It is therefore possible to use two other databases, namely the National Register database and the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. However, they are very limited and only serve to allow unique identification if necessary and if this identification cannot be obtained in any other way. This concerns name, gender, place of residence and possibly birth and death. These data are essential in order to be able to do the tracing. The aim is to reduce to a large extent the administrative burden of participants in the structure. A few elements deserve to be noted. The essential aspect, for me, is that this royal decree of special powers is limited in time. There is a need for a debate and for Parliament to use this time to conduct this debate here. If further improvements are to be made and further amendments are to be considered in the Council of State and before the Data Protection Authority, if further points are to be clarified and detailed, the text will become a bill. The basic text is here: it is the royal decree. Secondly, each group, of course, is free to propose amendments. The opinion of the Data Protection Authority and the Council of State on the various parts of the text and amendments will also be received. It is necessary to continue to do so. Indeed, during the deconfining phase, all these tests and tracing will be very important. We really needed such a database to make this strategy a success. Clearly, this decision has had a fairly wide impact on the protection of citizens' privacy. Nevertheless, the health side is of such magnitude that we really have to try, because I fear that we still need this database for a few months. I hope I don't, but I'm afraid that's still the case. It is now up to Parliament to approve a definitive law that enshrines all these key elements for this stress-test strategy during the deconfinition, but also guarantees the protection of fundamental rights as well as those of every citizen regarding the protection of privacy. One final question was the pseudonymization and anonymization of the data. In this regard, we remain within the normal research framework. For any other element, where this data is used for research, we remain within this framework. That's why Sciensano has five days to "pseudonymise" these data. If other entities have access to such data, they then become responsible for the processing of such data. Thus, the Regions, whose time limits differ somewhat, apply the rules in force in the different Regions. This is a point on which we are working together with the Regions. Everyone takes their own responsibility, but we work together to make this debunking and its Test & Trace part a great success.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u96	Mr President, there were quite a few questions about the fact that these data are collected at Sciensano and can later be used completely anonymously for the epidemiological investigation that will certainly be necessary. The number of tests per day is also increasing. We're already up to 25,000 tests a day. These data flows will increase even further in the coming weeks. Interesting to know is how it works. Who's being contacted? There's the test first. In case of a positive test or a strong suspicion of infection based on other criteria, despite the negative test, a signal is given to the tracer. Then the person concerned must tell the tracer who he or she has been in contact with. The epidemiologists then determine which contacts can be considered risky. This is a concept that is evolutionary, depending on the knowledge that is being built up about the spread of the virus and the progress of scientific research. Therefore, this cannot yet be recorded in an KB. In a KB, however, a distinction is already made between high risk contacts and low risk contacts. As far as scientific research is concerned, the data are kept for up to 30 years after the patient's death and, of course, during the patient's life. After that, I think you're gonna like it. That's the usual term for pseudonymized health data at Sciensano. That's how people work there all the time. If one of your ancestors had the flu 50 years ago and he lived for a while, he's still in the database. The Information Security Committee has an important role to play, which is completely independent. This has been the subject of a report which has been taken into account. Of course, privacy is very important, and that is why it is a very temporary KB and that a debate should be held in Parliament. It's not nothing, all the data that will be stored. It is therefore stipulated that the testing and tracing had to start first, otherwise we could not take a first step in the exit. It still has some feet in the earth, in both states, to recruit the necessary people. For my party but also in general privacy is very important. That is why the staff must also sign the necessary statements and in the Criminal Code there are articles in the case of infringements thereof. The Data Protection Authority will carry out the necessary checks. The debate will be much more extensive if we come to a final settlement. Perhaps we will be able to speak a little out of experience, because it was only started last week, when there were not so many new cases. However, this will increase rapidly as the tests continue. I think that a good result in that is really very important. It is true that this falls within the competence of the Länder, but last time, rather soon after the start of the corona infection, it appeared that there was no organizational readiness for it, that there were too few people and that it was not set up. Questions arose, such as where the data should be stored. Also important, between the test and tracing as little time as possible, because otherwise high-risk people or people with high risk might spread, making it look like we are emptying a leaky boat with a small spoon. The speed of contact detection is therefore also important, allowing rapid action to be taken at the level of those people such as quarantine or further testing, and allowing the tracing of their contacts to take place quickly. For this reason, the reduction in the number of contacts remains an essential measure. The less contacts one day, the less contacts need to be passed on. As far as social measures are concerned, at the request of the scientists, we have also had to emphasise this very strongly. I know everyone wants to meet everyone again, but large numbers of contacts are not allowed now. The corona virus can infect a lot of people in a short time and there are superspreaders. The fewer people you see or contact, among the fewer people the spread is possible. The measure to reduce the number of contacts is therefore no exception at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u97	Mr President, both ministers have replied extensively, but I do not think I have received an answer to the question as to why Article 458 of the Criminal Code is not in the provision. Can you give us any further clarification on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u98	Mr Van Langenhove, first of all, it is in the explanatory statement. Secondly, one signs a contract in which the same liability and professional secrecy apply to a doctor. Thirdly, it is up to the data processor to put that into the contract and also to enforce it. In this case, these are the regions, as they hire the staff for these call centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u99	Some answers have been given in the meantime, but I have not yet received an answer to my question on the filtering function assigned to the Information Security Committee. There is little explanation about this in the KB itself. Who has access to what data? Because it is an essential issue, there was also a demand for anchoring in the KB itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u100	That is already regulated by law today, Mrs Gijbels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u101	It is clearly stated in the Royal Decree that the filtering function is assigned to the Information Security Committee. That committee will therefore determine who has access to which data. I therefore assume that it is not settled, since there is no direct reference to it, as far as I can see.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u102	There is a legal basis, which clearly defines what the information security committee can do. The composition of the information committee shall be determined in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u103	That's not the answer to my question. My question was about the filtering function and therefore what is determined by the information committee. I do not care who is in it, but this filtering function is essential to determine who has access to which data. The allocation of certain powers to certain categories is not anchored in the RB, but is apparently outsourced to the Information Security Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u104	The legal basis lies with the IVC, which may authorise certain groups to access certain data. That is a legal definition: the committee can decide on it, in full autonomy. That's how it works, that's his job.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u105	Minister, in the test phase last week it appeared that there were still bugs in the system. The database is a federal fact. From there, a call order departs to the contact trackers, who then do what the script prescribes. The information they're getting relates to the data that our system, the federal platform, generates. Can you tell us if those bugs are difficult or easy to fix? Is that gonna be okay?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u106	Firstly, we work together on the inter-federal committee. We have offered the regions to use a federal platform, so that no different platform would be used in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia. That makes sense to me. Actually, the federal government provides a service to the regions. Secondly, a number of issues always come up when testing. They are now being solved one by one, even last week. Third. The call center agents get a name and a phone number, no more or no less. They will then receive one of the five scripts laid down by the inter-federal committee, which they must follow. They then re-enter a number of data into the database, to which certain people may or may not have access again. That's how the system works. As with any technology platform, we will solve childhood diseases one by one. We are very happy to do so, for example with our experts from the KSZ, who work on it day and night.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u107	Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u108	Mr President, there are still a lot of questions about the sharing of these data. If I understand correctly, we will be working on a piece of legislation that should come into force after June 4. It is therefore urgent to work on it. I don't know who should do it, since apparently it wouldn't be the government. A party must take the initiative. It seems a little special to me. It must be operational after 4 June through a law. I have a problem with one thing. If I understand correctly, to enter this database, the patient must not give his informed consent, that is, the laboratories will introduce the name of the infected person into the database. Does the patient have the right to refuse to cooperate? I think that the essential part of sharing health data is really to have the patient's support and willingness to collaborate at that stage and that this is done through health professionals. The fact that these contracts were awarded to large groups such as KPMG, INCABI, Callexcell, LEM Interim, or private boxes that usually call center for private reasons, raises questions to me because they are still extremely sensitive data. It is in fact a health task that we subcontract to commercial operators. For me, it's kind of a privatization of our health care, and it's a problem. On the other hand, I understand that the challenge is great and that these tracers had to be found. For me, it would have been necessary to find them in the non-market, among other things to ensure that people also had the support of their data protection and that the device really worked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u109	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. However, I did not receive an answer to my question about the choice of pseudonymisation rather than anonymisation. After all, it is important to get information on this, because we will soon be working on a legislative proposal. If we are to table amendments for anonymisation rather than pseudonymisation, then we now need to know why pseudonymisation was chosen. The second point concerns article 458 of the Criminal Code. Indeed, he is well represented in the report to the King. However, we could consider incorporating it, through an amendment, into the bill that will be discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u110	The choice that arises between anonymizing the data or pseudonymizing them is such that, in the first case, there is no need for a law. However, it is very difficult to perform. In most cases, when you think you're anonymizing, you actually pseudonymize. In this case, the law must be used. pseudonymization is the method of work used by Sciensano and universities to ensure greater privacy protection. That is why such an operation must be legally regulated. Therefore, the Kern+10 decided to transpose this royal decree into a bill. It is now up to Parliament to introduce and amend a text to respond to the need for tracing while protecting privacy in the fight against this health crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u111	Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. I would just like to go back to one thing because the debates are there. We know which open questions and which ones will have to be answered in the days or weeks that come through a legislative text. In particular, there is the issue of the controller. Today, through the royal decree of special powers, we have defined who is responsible for processing. The 2018 Act provides that, normally, the controller is defined by a law, decree or order, i.e. by legislation. This is expressly stated in section 26.8 of the 2018 Act. Normally, only a piece of legislation can do so, not a regulatory text. In this case, one is in a somewhat special circumstance with a royal decree of special powers. It is not really known where this royal decree of special powers is situated in the hierarchical order and hierarchy of norms. So we're in a temporary setting. In my view, we will have to think very carefully about the determination of this controller because, today, three administrations have been defined in this royal decree of special powers. You indicated to me in your reply that after 9 June 2020, and therefore after the desire to destroy these "data" by these regional administrations, the people who collect this data will become the controllers. But if they have not designated themselves as controllers within an established framework, they must be precisely defined, precisely through this article 26.8 of the 2018 Act. But that is not the case. We are quite failing because today, Sciensano considers himself a little like the subcontractor, more than the controller. I don't know if we're going to give him the role of treatment manager tomorrow. But if Sciensano or another authority is not defined as the controller, it must be defined or defined. Today, there's still a nebula.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u112	It is Sciensano who is responsible for the treatment. But if that requires clarification, if there is a bill, I am prepared to hear your solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u113	Will Sciensano be or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u114	According to the royal decree, it's Sciensano.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u115	No. If I refer to the last paragraph of Article 3 of the Royal Decree, it is the Vlaams Agentschap Zorg & Gezondheid, the Walloon Agency for a Quality Life, the Ministry of the German-speaking Community, the COCOM, who are each, within their own sphere of competence, responsible for the processing of personal data.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u116	Yes, but the database remains in Sciensano. Our country is complicated. We have tried to find a solution so that each partner can use the necessary data by taking, as I indicated in my reply, his own responsibilities. Indeed, there is a divergence in the legal framework existing at the different regional levels. If this still requires further explanation, I am prepared to discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u117	According to my interpretation, Sciensano is a subcontractor and not the controller.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u118	This is a mixed competence. All entities therefore have their own responsibilities. You will have to hurry, Minister, along with Parliament's colleagues: it is 11 May today and there is still an opinion to be delivered by the Council of State. There won't be much time to approve it before 4 June. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u119	That will then have to offer some relief.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u120	Are there any colleagues who would like to ask or comment on this for the Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u121	Good morning, everyone, this order makes sense, since it allows certain companies and institutions to postpone employers' contributions that they should have paid in the second quarter of 2020. A reassuring fact to note is that the collection of contributions is deferred and not exempt. This implies a limited impact on the long-term financing of our social security. In view of the economic situation, it is important here to preserve the liquidity of companies during the crisis. In fact, my party supported this royal decree at the level of the enlarged Kern, but with the expression of a small point of attention for the fifth category of employers. In order to prove that its activity was reduced, the company must either prove a sharp decrease in its turnover or prove a decrease of at least 65% in the wage bill reported to ONSS. This second criterion on which my party had drawn attention could lead some unscrupulous employers to put more of their unemployed workers in order to be able to postpone the payment of contributions. We had submitted this question to the enlarged Kern, but our proposal was not accepted. So, as I said, we can be reassured that this is a postponement and not an exemption. The principle of abuse remains weak, but we believe it is important to stress that there is no zero risk. We supported this order, but it must be remembered that the financing of social security must be guaranteed. It would be unacceptable and unacceptable for the most fragile to bear the consequences of this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u122	Mr President, Minister, our group can certainly support this measure. After all, many employers are now facing a fall in turnover, while their costs continue to run. To support them, we believe it is a good thing to allow them to postpone the payment of the advances and the balance of the RSZ employers' contributions. However, we still have a number of questions. The Treasury Inspection indicates that there is no budgetary impact, as it is a delay of payment and not a set-off. That is indeed the case, but we believe that there could be a small budgetary impact if the friendly payment plans were exempted from the existing financial penalties in the context of corona. In addition, employers who had in any case planned to apply for a friendly payment plan will now be able to hide behind the corona measures more easily and thus be exempted from financial sanctions. Our group therefore wonders whether the government considers a budgetary impact possible and whether it has been estimated and quantified.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u123	Mr. President, I read this royal decree. It is clear that the aim is to minimize the impact of the crisis on all employers in the country, whether private or public. The leitmotiv of this government, since the beginning of the crisis, is simply trying to preserve as much as possible the economic viability of our SMEs, TPEs and small independents. Therefore, we can only support the measures that you are presenting to us today. However, I have two questions. The first concerns the manner in which the order is drafted. I take, for example, Article 1: "Employers and persons assimilated to them referred to in Article 1, § 1, of the Act of 27 June revising the Decree-Law of 28 December 1944 concerning social security for workers (a) who are members of the Joint Committee 302 of the hotel industry (b) who fall within the cultural, festive, recreational and sporting sectors referred to in Article 2, § 1, of the Ministerial Decree of 13 March 2020 on emergency measures to limit the spread of coronavirus; Article 1, § 5, of the Ministerial Decree of 18 March 2020 on emergency measures to limit the spread of coronavirus; and, finally, Article 1, § 6, of the Ministerial Decree of 23 March 2020 on emergency measures to limit the spread of coronavirus." The Royal Decrees of 13 and 18 March have been repealed. I wonder if it makes sense to refer to these royal decrees and why I kept those references. The second question concerns the monitoring by the ONSS a posteriori. Will the ONSS have the technical capacity and staff to control each file, or will this be done randomly? What happens if it turns out that the statement is wrong? Will sanctions be provided for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u124	Minister, I have a small technical question. The KB's proposal provides for a postponement of payment for companies which have had to close down, but also for companies which have not had to close down, but have done so for one reason or another, or which have greatly reduced their activities. That delay will be granted until 15 December for seven amounts listed in the Royal Decree, but one exception has been made, namely for the third advance of the first quarter of 2020. That's included as an exception. Companies which did not have to close down, but whose economic activity was significantly reduced in the first quarter, cannot be delayed. So I have a technical question: why is there this one exception? Would it not have been easier and easier for the Royal Decree to allow the same postponement of payment for all categories?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u125	Mr President, first of all I would like to express our satisfaction at seeing that some companies in difficulty will be able to receive a buoy of oxygen in these difficult times. That's positive. Nevertheless, we have strong fears which are in connection with the Council of State. These measures differ from one company to another and exclude some of them. We understand, of course, that measures must be taken in the light of objective criteria, such as having had to close down or not; but we believe that these criteria for differentiation do not take sufficient account of the realities experienced by companies. I'll explain. For the fifth category of enterprises, i.e. those which have not had to close but which have experienced significant financial losses, you impose a criterion of 65% reduction in turnover or wage bill in order to be able to benefit from these measures. What about those who lost 60% of their turnover or even 40%? Hundreds of companies cannot benefit from the deferral of their contributions, while their financial situation is catastrophic. On this point, we would like to ask you to review your copy by putting in place a more inclusive system, which takes into account the difficulties of everyone, regardless of the extent of the impact of the crisis. Secondly, we believe that the date of 15 December also raises questions. Isn't it too rigid? Should we not, instead, make an ongoing assessment of the situation to ensure that companies are able to get their heads out of the water? We must not provoke a wave of bankruptcies. Finally, I would like to return to the question of the financing of social security, in the words of the Prime Minister at her last press conference. I quote: "The future must now be considered, especially for our social security". We fully agree that we must help companies that are affected by the crisis, and there is no doubt about that. But we have to ask ourselves who will bear the cost of all this. In general, it is always the state that trins when it comes to helping large companies that leave millions of dividends. We reject the logic of socialization of losses and privatization of profits. There are colossal amounts that evaporate every year in the hands of a handful of wealthy individuals, while our State is cruelly lacking the means to ensure an ambitious social policy. Minister, can you assure us that it is the widest shoulders that will be used? The population is waiting. Demand for more tax justice is increasing in society. We have made a petition on this subject and it has already collected more than 40,000 signatures in less than 20 days. We propose a unique 5% tax on big fortunes. This would amount to EUR 15 billion. It is a simple measure of solidarity but above all common sense. It is time to put in place such measures so that we can help even more people and ensure sustainable financing of our social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u126	Mr Gilkinet, you have reappeared: I am watching your blue hand!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u127	Mr President, the problem with video conferencing is that we are tempted to attend several meetings at the same time, so that we sometimes miss a call to speak. We support the principles of this text, because allowing many companies in difficulty to defer payment of social contributions will help them in terms of cash flow. Nevertheless, I would like to highlight two concerns. First of all, one of the criteria adopted in the bank guarantee law – text by Mr. De Croo – is that eligible companies were not required to file late payment of ONSS contributions. In the event that a company benefits from a deferral of contributions under this Royal Decree, do you then consider it to be a delay? I believe that coordination between the two texts is necessary in order to prevent companies eligible for the bank guarantee from being excluded because of the postponement granted by the text in question. This criterion may seem severe for some companies which are experiencing small delays in the payment of their social benefits – which is never ideal – but which are viable in the long run. They are therefore mechanically excluded from the bank guarantee. Secondly, I would like to point out that this is indeed a postponement, not a reduction, of social contributions. However, even if these funds social security – which is dear to the heart of ecologists – we will probably have to consider, for certain particularly difficult sectors (horeca, culture, etc.).At least temporarily, reductions in social contributions to encourage redeployment. However, this is another debate that I am not asking to exhaust in this debate. I only wanted to start it with my intervention. My main question is whether obtaining a carry-over of social contributions by means of this royal decree will have any consequences on the possibility of benefiting from the Bank Guarantee Act. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u128	Madam Secretary, the basic philosophy of this royal decision is all right, I believe. Several colleagues have already said that it is a question of postponing payments, not of adjusting social security contributions for the first two quarters of the year, for different companies. This is in line with a number of fiscal provisions that have already been adopted. The aim is to solve or avoid the liquidity problems of different companies. That base is okay. The same principle applies in social security as in those tax provisions. I have three comments to make, Madam Secretary. I hope you can confirm them. Firstly, I am quite sure that the normal control mechanism of the RSZ will play on this postponement of payments. That is a mechanism that also plays in other situations. I suppose it is now also playing for the firms that get the flexibility to make a statement on honor. That's a bit of a novelty. I assume that the inspection services and the inspection services, two different services of the RSZ, can do their normal control tasks and inspection tasks? I also assume that the same applies to the friendly payment plans. They can already be installed for other reasons. I assume that the same follow-up will also apply to the friendly payment plans in this situation. I hope your answer will confirm those two things. Secondly, we have already discussed the liquidity of the RSZ itself. I hope you will continue to say that the RSZ will be able to continue to rely on the Treasury's thesaurus line for its liquidity, which is now also being delayed, because the RSZ will be able to continue to rely on the Treasury's thesauri line. Thirdly, in general there is a need for structural and sustainable financing or refinancing of social security. This point will require an important political debate in the future. It should not be a one-off symbolic policy, but rather a structural and sustainable funding for the next years of social security, which we all now regard as so dear and treasured.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u129	Mrs Galant, you have referred to certain articles of the legal text by asking the question of whether Minister De Crem's ministerial order was valid. In its opinion, the Council of State replied in the affirmative, stating that this could be an evolutionary process. Mrs Slegers, as regards the exception for the first quarter, that was said at first, because we were almost in favour of the payment of the first quarter. However, the social secretariats pointed out to us that at that time it was impossible to demarcate that group. There are always those who have already paid and others who still have to pay. They claimed that this was actually very difficult. That is why they were not included, only those who were obliged to be shut down, because they can be delineated. Mr D'Amico, you are referring to the fifth category, namely 65% reduction in turnover, and you are asking me what is the situation when we are at 60%? That is a relevant question. As always, when there are thresholds, you wonder what to do when you're just below the threshold. It is not really possible to post, but it is always possible to request a payment plan in case of difficulty. If they are in difficulty, a kind of corona payment plan is certainly allowed in these circumstances. I come to the question of the tax on big fortunes. You have the right to reconsider your proposal, but even if I wanted to, a 5% tax on it is not possible under the special powers. Mr Gilkinet, when the postponement is granted, it does not mean that there is a delay. There will be no sanction, it has been allowed and we will abide by that decision. Late payments are not sanctioned either, but the legal basis still needs to be laid for this. This is being worked on, as it is not provided for in the Royal Decree. Mr Bertels, the monitoring mechanism remains active. Would you have thought otherwise? Mr Snyders has already given the instruction, and the inspectors have already been instructed, as they will also have to carry out the necessary inspections in this area, not to bully the people, but simply to ensure the proper use by the people who need it. That seems to me to be a good principle for the inspection services too. Is the liquidity of the RSZ guaranteed in this respect too? That's a good question. The answer is yes. There will be no adverse effects on the other branches of social security. To this end, a protocol has been concluded with the recovery service. That's why I think this is well covered.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u130	Colleagues, are there any comments?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u131	Minister, if I understand correctly, businesses with a loss of less than 65% still have to ask for a deferral of their contributions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u132	This is not a postponement but a spread, which will be very easy to get due to the coronavirus crisis. Instructions have been given. The spreading will not be done automatically, you have to ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u133	Madam Minister, I may have missed that in your reply, but I had asked if there could be an impact due to the lack of financial sanctions for the friendly payment plans. Was there calculated whether there would be less financial sanctions on such plans?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u134	No, that wasn't calculated. I wouldn't know how to do that either. These must be companies that have been in order so far, up to and including the first trimester. What if they're witty? How much are they taken for? How far are they gonna move? One trimester, two trimesters? That is where the budgetary impact is difficult to measure, if only to prevent the financial sanctions they could generate, if this had happened in other circumstances. There are so many unknowns that this could not be calculated. I do not think this makes much sense either, given the situation of force majeure in which we find ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic174x.u135	We will be very happy if, after payment has been postponed, they can still pay the payments and re-launch themselves. Then I think we will have a very happy government and a very happy social security. I would like to thank the Minister, the colleagues and the secretariat who accompanied me this afternoon.
