ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u2	The President [[in front of the assembly standing]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u3	[[for the standing meeting]] Philippe Blanchart, a former member of the House of Representatives, died on 26 December last in Namur, at the age of 56. Philippe Blanchart was born in Lobbes near Thuin on 13 February 1963, from a family of 7 children. After obtaining, among other things, a bachelor's degree in labour sciences at the ULB, he taught for 20 years in an education and training centre in alternation with young people in school leaving school and became an inspector of higher secondary education. Elected communal councillor of the City of Thuin from 1995 to 2018, he was President of the CPAS, educator and then 1st bishop from 2000 to 2012. He also served twice as mayor to replace Minister Paul Furlan, with whom he formed an inseparable duo. In 2009, he entered the Chamber of the Arrondissement of Hainaut as an alternate for Christian Dupont, who became Minister of Education of the French Community. He was part of our Assembly for ten years, until the elections of 2019. He was a member of the Committees for External Relations, Defence, Business, Climate and Sustainable Development and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. He became a member of the Walloon Parliament after the last parliamentary elections. We will remember an affable and diligent parliamentarian whose kindness, generosity and elegance we will miss. He was deeply committed to humanistic values and showed great determination in his social commitment. His long fight against the disease will have aroused the admiration of everyone. On behalf of the House, I offered our deepest condolences to his companion and his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u4	The day after Christmas, on 26 December, Philippe Blanchart died, after a long fight against the disease which he led with courage, aroused the admiration of all. Born in Lobbes in 1963, Philippe Blanchart was born to a family of seven children. A graduate of the ULB in the field of labour sciences and a trades teacher, he placed the development of young people at the heart of his struggle. He taught for 20 years in the centre for alternance education and training, before becoming its coordinator and developing its concept in his region. In 1994, Philippe Blanchart became involved in politics on Thuin's communal socialist list, alongside his always-loving friend, Paul Furlan. At the local level he performed various functions: city council member, ships, OCMW chairman and acting mayor. He worked with heart and soul for his city and his fellow citizens. He had a rich political career, because in 2009 he also became a federal member of parliament. He stayed that way for ten years, until the last election. In May last year, he was elected as a Walloon Member of Parliament with 6,000 votes, again a proof of his great popularity. Philippe Blanchart had an endearing and radiant personality. A man of fighting and values, he was appreciated for his listening qualities, his humour and his proximity to the citizens. On behalf of the Belgian Government, I extend our deepest condolences to his companion, his family and, of course, his friends.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u5	May I invite the Chamber to observe a few moments of silence in memory of our sorry colleague?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u6	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents on 15 January 2020 and at the request of Mrs Van Hoof, I suggest that you postpone the following item to the plenary meeting on 23 January 2020: - the bill (Ms. Els Van Hoof and Nahima Lanjri) amending, with regard to the prohibition of discrimination in respect of paternity or comaternity, the Act of 10 May 2007 to combat discrimination between women and men, Nos. 165/1 to 8; - the draft law (Mr Patrick Prévot, Ms Eliane Tillieux, Mr Frédéric Daerden, Ms Laurence Zanchetta, Mr Marc Goblet, Ms Ludivine Dedonder and Mr Jean-Marc Delizée) amending the Act of 10 May 2007 to combat discrimination between women and men in order to enable the protection of paternity, Nos. 46/1 to 3; - the draft law (Ms. Catherine Fonck) amending the Act of 10 May 2007 to combat discrimination between women and men with a view to better protecting persons facing the issue of reconciliation between family and working life, No. 61/1; - the bill (Ms. Evita Willaert, Sarah Schlitz, Jessika Soors, Marie-Colline Leroy, Barbara Creemers, Laurence H annoyée and Séverine de Laveleye, Simon Moutquin and Mrs. Kim Buyst and Julie Chanson) to prohibit any discrimination related to breastfeeding, No. 696/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 January 2020 and at the request of Mrs Van Hoof, I propose that the following point be postponed to the plenary session of 23 January 2020: - the legislative proposal (Els Van Hoof and Nahima Lanjri) amending the law of 10 May 2007 to combat discrimination between women and men as regards the prohibition of discrimination against paternity or co-motherhood, Nos 165/1 to 8; - the legislative proposal (Mr Patrick Prévot, Mrs Eliane Tillieux, Mr Frédéric Daerden, Mrs Laurence Zanchetta, Mr Marc Goblet, Mrs Ludivine Dedonder and Mr Jean-Marc Delizée) amending the law of 10 May 2007 on combating discrimination between women and men in order to protect paternity, Nos 46/1 to 3; - the bill (Mrs Catherine Fonck) amending the law of 10 May 2007 to combat discrimination between women and men in order to provide better protection for those who have to reconcile family and work, No. 61/1; - the bill (Evita Willaert, Sarah Schlitz, Jessika Soors, Marie-Colline Leroy, Barbara Creemers, Laurence Hennuy and Séverine de Laveleye, Mr Simon Moutquin and Mrs Kim Buyst and Mrs Julie Chanson), in order to prohibit any discrimination in relation to breastfeeding, No. 696/1. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 January 2020, I also propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the appointment of an effective member of the Standing Committee on the Review of Intelligence and Security Services, No. 878/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 January 2020, on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session, I also propose the appointment of an effective member of the Standing Committee on the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services, No. 878/1, to be registered. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u7	Madam Prime Minister, I take this opportunity to congratulate you on your birthday yesterday. Happy birthday!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u8	Madam Prime Minister, I would first of all like to join the President's birthday wishes. I wasn't aware of it, but that doesn't make the congratulations any less serious. Colleagues, 235 days ago there were not only elections to the Chamber, but also to the European Parliament. In their own country, it is still waiting for a pre-former or a reformer, for a project that allows citizens to gather and bring together. In Europe, on the other hand, a community of 28 democracies with a lot of differences has been speeded up. There's a project for that. A Commission has been designated and it is unpacking with the Green Deal. That Green Deal is, as far as we're concerned, a bitter necessity. Climate change has long been nothing abstract, it is very concrete: 2019 was the hottest year ever measured. However, the Green Deal is not only a bitter necessity, it is actually a gift from heaven. It's an opportunity for Europe. Unlike Belgium, the European Commission has discovered that climate warming is not only something to worry about, but also a huge opportunity. The Green Deal is a turbo for our citizens and our companies. The Commission is speeding up this process. Yesterday, the European Parliament called for more ambition. So serious work will have to be done. Madam Prime Minister, I call on us, Parliament and the Government, to work together to ensure that Belgium enters the cockpit and not the luggage carrier. That's my call, besides a lot of substantive questions I have. Let us together ensure that we are a climate leader and that current issues are not waiting. I look forward to your attitude on the matter and I am very curious to see if you will put your shoulders on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if I have learned one thing from the forest fires in Australia, then it is that climate policy is not an or a story. I saw a Prime Minister there who, in the midst of forest fires, was very difficult to get away from the coal industry. However, that is not the point. It's not about industry or climate. It is about reforming industry and doing so in a way that everyone can go along with. He probably does that out of concern for the miners' jobs, but he needs to reform his industry to make sure everyone can come along. That is also what the European Green Deal is about. With this Green Deal we want to move towards a different economic policy and this in a way so that everyone is with us. As a socialist, I can only support that. I would also like to appeal today to all those entrepreneurs in our country who actually want the same thing. They know that reform costs money. After all, the money we will soon receive from Europe from the transition fund will not suffice. However, Australia teaches us that doing nothing will cost us even more money. Madam Prime Minister, I have the following question. This time we are not going to side with the Eastern European coal countries again and avoid our financial responsibility. Europe is counting on us when it comes to a financial contribution to their plans. This time we are going along with Europe's ambition. Today, however, there is a problem with the current European fiscal policy. Europe today does not allow some investments to be excluded from the budget. I believe that this should be possible for good, sustainable investment. I would have liked to know how you feel about that. Are you prepared to convince your European colleagues of this view?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Europe is demarring in the area of climate policy and does not look back at the rest. Climate policy is absolutely important. I believe that all countries should be aware of this, but that they must all take responsibility worldwide. Today there is a story on the table around the Green Deal and there are also pennies on the table, but there are also a lot of questions about how to proceed. It is important that we look at a realistic and efficient policy with a Green Deal. The KU Leuven has once again made it quite clear to us this week that this is necessary and that there may indeed be some eco-realism in that story. We need this, but the EU also certainly needs it. The funds put forward in the Green Deal are partly removed from various funds, funds from which our country also uses. These funds seem to go first and foremost to countries that are among the poor pupils today, countries that are not at the right end today. We see funds shifting, mainly to Poland, Germany, Romania and the Czech Republic, the countries that are still stone toolmakers today. However, as an energy-intensive region, we also have needs. We said goodbye to the coal stream a long time ago, but now it seems that these resources are being taken away to transfer them to those countries which have not understood it and which are just getting started. Madam Prime Minister, we must stand firm. The big question then is how we will ensure that the climate policy that will be financed is indeed an efficient climate policy. In what way will we ensure that we deal with this in the right way? How do you ensure that we as a country (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u11	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, becoming the world's first climate neutral continent by 2050 is the biggest challenge facing the European Union. As a reminder, last December, the European Commission chaired by Ursula von der Leyen placed the fight against global warming at the heart of its fight. From now on, all European policies, whether energy, industry, transport or agriculture, will have to be examined within the framework of the Green Deal. This Wednesday, the European Parliament adopted by a large majority, through a motion for a resolution, this Green Deal proposed by the European Commission. MEPs also stressed their willingness to strengthen it, particularly with regard to the 2030 targets and the reduction of greenhouse gases by 55%, compared with 50% for the Commission. They also want to be involved in its implementation. Madam Prime Minister, how do you view the vote on this European resolution? The press has announced that the Commission will propose a method for sharing the EUR 7.5 billion of the Fair Transition Fund between Member States. From this envelope integrated into the future European budget 2021-2027, Belgium is expected to receive EUR 68 million. Can you confirm this information? Do you know how this amount was calculated? What will be the continuation of the discussions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you for your wishes for my birthday. The issue of climate neutrality is, of course, not an or story, but an en-en-story. Everyone has to adjust and join in that story, where I think about the people, the industry and the countries. I think it is a good thing that the European Commission has decided to take this into its hands. On the question of the budget, you know that I have stressed, also as Minister for the Budget, the importance of the paradox of the need to invest, on the one hand, and of the European rules, on the other hand, which impose on us a budgetary consolidation which must be achieved year after year. As the discussions, also with the Regions, on this subject, on which we have obtained a non-paper, we have agreed that it is necessary to be able to plead with the Commission for certain types of expenditure to be considered in a more specific way, because it is not going to be able to invest. And it is also, given the urgency of the climate, to put at risk the actions necessary to respond, in a fair and proportionate manner, to the difficulties that we face in Belgium and, as you said, certainly elsewhere, particularly in Australia. On every occasion, whether at the Summit or at my bilateral meetings with my European counterparts, I would like to recall this paradox. The practical implementation of the Green Deal will, of course, have to take account of the specificity in the field. One country isn't the other. It is difficult to compare countries, because we do not have the same history, the same geography, the same means. Indeed, the European Union consists of the union of the forces of everyone. When we support the European project, we must also support our ability to see differences. That is what is proposed. Of course, I am also very attentive to the way this climate neutrality project is going to develop within the multiannual budget. Indeed, if one allocates a share of the latter's amounts to the transformation and protection of the environment, this must not be done at the expense of the regions in transition, for example – it would be rather paradoxical. In short, we need to find the right balance, not only when we talk about the Green Deal, but also when we negotiate the multi-annual budget – as we are going to do. I would like to conclude by mentioning one point. At the last European Summit, Mrs von der Leyen came to explain her Green Deal. On behalf of Belgium, I was not only able to highlight the resolution that you defended here shortly before this Summit, but I also stressed another aspect – which was behind this resolution – that the Green Deal and the climate challenge are essential and promising issues. We see that the Green Deal is a growth factor for the European Union. The hope of climate change and improvement must be integrated into the daily lives of our fellow citizens so that this objective does not turn against us and that the positive steps in favour of the climate do not reverse. It is on this point that I drew the attention of Mrs von der Leyen, confirming that almost 100 pieces of legislation have to be adopted. Let us never lose sight of the fact that they must fit into the lives of each and every one, because it is only with the support of all that we can achieve the objectives pursued.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u13	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for the voluntarism in the last part of the answer. Climate is not something to lie awake about, to see and complain about. It's something to do. It is a story of more jobs, of more prosperity and often of more comfort. This is an incredible opportunity. If we want to promote the European idea back and bring Europe back into people's minds and hearts, the Green Deal is something we absolutely must not miss. What can be done in the European Parliament should also be possible here. Our group will take an initiative in this respect. We will bring together groups of good will to create a framework and send the minister on the road in current affairs with great ambition. Belgium was once one of the founders of the European Coal and Steel Community. Today it should be the leader of the Green Deal, a community of renewable energy and prosperity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u14	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for the answer. We agree with you on the paradox in European budgetary rules and also that it is an en-en-story. Working on a new industry with care for people's jobs is very important. Our national climate plan states that we must engage in dialogue with citizens and businesses. We have seen in our committee the good example of the Netherlands, where round tables have been held with citizens and managers. This has led to good results. So let's get to work. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u15	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for the answer, but I think we should be vigilant. Today the money from the Green Deal is on the table, but there are many other challenges that we should not forget. Otherwise, we'll lose our citizens on the way. This means that there are also questions about migration, about safety, about health. We can't get out of the way. A second aspect is that we absolutely must ensure that we also do not forget our industry, that we do not forget our people. If the focus is too bright on those who have done nothing in the past, it comes back to us like a boomerang. Then we will lose our support here, and we must also move forward here. I would like you to take that message too, so that we can go to a just transition, to which our citizens and our businesses have their share.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u16	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. For our group, Belgium must be a driving force at European level in bringing states together on the climate issue with the aim of pursuing common policies. I am pleased that our resolution, adopted by a large majority, has been taken by you to Ursula von der Leyen. I hear the paradox between the need for investment and the European budgetary rules. The Union must invest because not investing means getting poorer. I am a convinced European, sensitive to the European project and to the need for regional and state membership. You can count on the vigilance of parliamentarians gathered in this climate faction for a relevant and fair energy transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u17	On behalf of the Chamber, I have invited President von der Leyen and Commissioner Timmermans to come to the Chamber to hold a debate on this very important matter. You will be informed about the date and the modalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u18	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago you adopted a text that required minimum service in prisons. Of course, we did not support this text, but I would like to recall the context that led us to this minimum service. The previous MR/N-VA legislature imposed 20 per cent structural budget cuts in the justice system. This obviously led to a chronic understaffing situation for prison staff, with deplorable working conditions, which had an impact on the conditions of detainees. This is compounded by the problem of endemic prison overcrowding and the problem of obsolete buildings. The tension is increasing. The previous legislature experienced a lot of strikes and tensions and, finally, even escapes. I recall that this text was adopted when you resigned, just before the dissolution of the Chambers. Mr. Minister, you were sticking to it. I do not understand why, suddenly, when you have to establish a social dialogue with the unions and prison officers to find a solution to this so delicate issue that you were holding on to, you suddenly and unilaterally decide to leave the negotiating table. Like everyone, and like the unions, I wish I knew your points of divergence. What do you intend to do? Do you have an agenda to re-establish dialogue in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u19	Minister, this seems to be yet another repeat of a cheap soap opera, something like the umpteenth repetition of FC De Champions. There is nothing wrong with that in itself, if it is comical, but here we talk about your mischief every month as Minister of Justice. In December, the guards stopped, because they no longer believed in politics. Politics remained deaf. Last Tuesday you proved them right by sending your cat to yet another mediation. You want a minimum service, that is clear, but by not showing up, you are not doing any service yourself. In 2016, you promised more staff and better prisons, but that promise just remained dead letter. I remember what you said about the December strike: 'This strike is not addressed to me'. You said the problems are older than the previous government. But it is under your rule that more than a thousand places have been lost in recent years. Then when the people strike, you suddenly worry about the prisoners, while it is under your policy that they are sitting like animals in an overcrowded cage. You have already pushed through the minimum service and now you refuse to involve the trade unions in its implementation. A minimum employment rate of 70% means, if I may believe many prisons, more than the normal occupation. You say that you want to reconcile the right to strike with other rights, but no, it is clear that you simply want to abolish the right to strike. I honestly wonder how you will proceed, Minister. Why did you refuse to respond to the proposals of the trade unions, which the mediator had asked for? Do you intend to push forward the extension of the minimum service without consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u20	In recent years there has been no shortage of social dialogue. On the contrary, throughout the spring and summer of 2016, there was patient social consultation, even at the moment that the unions had entered the hall of my cabinet. The organisation of minimum services is a very long-term work. We started this before the turn of the century, because the Council of Europe repeatedly called on us to respect human rights in our prisons during strikes. We have received letters of formal notice, fines and accusations from all sides. The government had planned to implement this not only on the track, but also in prisons. In 2018 I conducted social consultation with the trade unions about the law. Ms Özen, the law was indeed passed in March 2019, but it was negotiated before and during the summer of 2018. After this negotiation, which was interrupted by strikes, and which I nevertheless continued until a non-agreement – which can happen in social negotiations – the law was submitted to the necessary bodies, such as the Council of State, and was voted by your House. We took two royal arrests. The first set out the model plan for all prisons. It was negotiated with the unions and published in the Belgian Monitor on 7 August 2019. We have negotiated the royal decree on the status of the remaining prison officers, regardless of what is happening for the civil service, both statutory and non-contractualized. This royal decree was also negotiated and published in the Moniteur belge de décembre. So I had three social consultations. The law provided as always that, for each prison separately, we had to negotiate a social agreement, if possible, and that if it was not possible, the minister could decide on the minimum service plan per prison. So we started these negotiations in September. Mr Colebunders, on several occasions certain syndicates, not the minister or his management, have sent their cats, stood aside or left the meeting as a protest, because they could not agree to that plan. At that time, it was up to me to hold social consultations at the higher level, which we did again on 12 and 20 November. At these two meetings at the higher level, I was asked to organize a mediation, which I did. Mediation negotiations took place; again, two for Flanders, one for Wallonia, for a model type. These mediations did not result in any reconciliation. I therefore allowed myself, after the fourth social consultation, to say that we would meet again on 20 January for a closing meeting. I'm a patient man, everyone knows that, but there's a limit to every patience.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u21	Minister, thank you for this extremely detailed answer. I was there and I had the impression that you were telling me about your agenda rather than really explaining the reasons for this blockage. Today, I still don't know what the negotiation has blocked. What were your points of divergence? In such a delicate case where you have to balance the right to strike of officers with humane conditions of detention for detainees, you are expected to have a proactive capacity and to unite around you to find a solution to this minimum service that you have so much desired.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u22	Minister, you say that everyone knows you as a patient man. When I first sat here in the hemisphere, you seemed to me like a nice minister who stood patiently listening to us. Nothing could be further from the truth. I've been a union man for 25 years. If you came to the union with such a proposal, I wouldn't talk to you either. You don't even pretend to listen anymore, you just perform. Seventy percent minimum occupancy, do you know what you're talking about? I will not say anything about it: you are well on your way to becoming the worst failed Minister of Justice who has ever been here in this political circus. Your savings on Justice are a disgrace! Let it be clear: the pressure of work runs out of spuigates. If the trade unions want to sue your policy and engage in dialogue, you will not even go into that again. You earn 10,000 euros a month, Minister, but I wonder what you actually do as a minister. Please protect our country, if you ever run for Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u23	Minister, I have no objection to your EUR 10,000 per month if you can give me a good answer to this question. Sixteen years old, a French girl bought by a gang at the end of November and raped hundreds of times in a basement. The perpetrators were well known to the police and the courts. They are part of a criminal Brussels city gang, led by Youness, Azeddine and Soufiane. That's real shit, huh? This gang is known for the more than 200 facts she's already committed. Youness, the gang leader, is barely 23 years old and has already committed 35 violations. So he's already collected 35 violations of his criminal record. It remains a mystery to us what action has been taken on this. Minister, how do you explain to the man and the woman in the street that such well-known criminals can still walk freely and commit such horrible acts without penalty? When I look my daughter in the eye tonight, I don't want to imagine how I'd feel if something like that happened to her. Mr Minister, how can a gang that boasts even in music videos about the many criminal acts still do so undisturbed? How can a gang leader with a criminal record of no less than 35 facts still go uninhibited? Where is your action plan against the city gangs? Where is your action plan against child prostitution? How long do parents have to tolerate that most immigrant gangs systematically terrorize, abuse and rape our children? Minister, you have looked away long enough, it is now time for action.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u24	This is a difficult time, Mr President. My remuneration is constantly being paid here, and I fear, Mrs Bury, that the answer you expect will still go away, because I cannot give you the answer you expect. I don't go into specific cases. You understand. I'm not looking away either. I would like to tell you that there is at present a plan in Brussels of ours that has mapped out the local city gangs for an even better follow-up. "Les bands urbaines," they call them in French. There is also a letter about the city gangs that was sent around by the parquet a long time ago. There is also a reference magi street in Brussels. Of course, it's not just a federal matter. I spoke of the parquet, but the local police of Brussels, which has 2,500 people for Brussels City alone, pays special operational attention to young criminals in gangs. There are specialised sections for the polycriminal activities, as mentioned by you. These include sex crimes, violence against persons and juvenile crime. The federal judicial police, the director-coordinator of the federal police and the district information crossroads meet regularly in front of the parquet about those city gangs. In Flanders there is an action plan on teenage pimps. We have published an addendum to the action plan against trafficking in human beings, based on that Flemish action plan. So it is certainly not the case that we are sitting still. In February 2019, the College of Attorneys General addressed the issue of teenage pimps and the wider issue of urban crime one last time. So I don't look away, but I don't have a magic solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u25	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I hear they met one last time in February 2019. We've been a year. So it's time to get back together. I also know that there is a need for cooperation. The federal level and Brussels must work together, but you are simply saying that it is difficult for you to find a solution, because you are not only competent. The man in the street is not served by that. People are tired of it. Every day we read in the newspaper that justice is in total decline. We really need to get rid of friendly settlements for serious criminal acts. A strict policy of persecution must finally be pursued.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u26	Mr President, Minister, these days, with the Motor Show, a lot of people are weighing up whether or not to opt for an electric car. What starts with a noble goal, soon turns into a disappointment when candidate buyers see how small the offer is today, contrary to what many colleagues here dare to say. The transition to electric cars will come sooner or later, but the question arises as to how these new technologies will be handled fiscally. There was a time when former governments promoted diesel cars, then taxing diesel more heavily, although now it appears to be a better fuel than petrol. What will be the next, after the massive promotion of electric cars? I note that efforts are being made to exploit fossil fuels even further in the coming years in order to compensate for the loss of income caused by the increase in the number of electric cars. Mr. Secretary, that's where the shoe is. If electric cars become the norm, you will have a big problem. In 2018, EUR 8.6 billion of fuel tax revenue was still available. So who will pay for the arrival of electric cars? Will it be the people who continue to drive fossil fuels because they cannot afford an electric car? Let's face it, electric cars are for the happy few these days, for the people who can afford one. Or will families end up with a higher electricity bill for turning on the washing machine? Or will the entrepreneurs also pay for this greening?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u27	Mr President, Mr Van Lommel, the Motor Show does indeed ensure that many people are thinking about a new vehicle and electric cars are increasingly part of the recital. There is therefore a very strong democratisation going on in this area. There are different opportunities and also a number of challenges. One of the questions is how we invest enough in our power grid to cope with an increase in the number of electric vehicles. As you point out, there is also a potential financial impact, as revenues from VAT and excise duties on diesel and petrol amounted to EUR 8.6 billion in 2018. That impact can be significant financially, but I would like to add a few elements to that. After all, the number of newly registered electric vehicles in our country is still marginal. It concerns 1.5% of newly registered vehicles. Secondly, the impact will be quite gradual, because the 98.5 % of newly registered non-electric vehicles will be used for some time. I would like to cite Norway as an example. That country has the highest share of electric vehicles today. More than half of the new vehicles are fully electric, but if one looks at the stock of the vehicles, it is still only 7%. Even if at some point there is a very rapid greening, the financial impact still comes with a certain delay. Is there a need for a new policy in this area? Absolutely. But since this is an effect with some delay, I assume there will be a government and a finance minister in full power by then.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u28	Hope brings life, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but you have not convinced me or reassured me at all. You have a lack of a sense of reality and a long-term vision. You, as a minister, are not even yet able to put your public finances in order, let alone develop a long-term vision in the field of electric vehicles. This will certainly not work if you think of the real money cow that delivers you every litre of fuel that the consumer gasses at the pump. Of every litre of diesel that is being fueled today, as much as 54 percent disappears in the state treasury. There is no need to have a glass ball, ladies and gentlemen, in order to predict that at the end of the journey the emission of the fleet will cost the citizen a great deal of money. You are now turning people's minds.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u30	Mr President, Madam Minister, on the basis of a study by the KCE that was published today, you have announced your willingness to increase the minimum number of births from 400 to 557 per year and per maternity, which directly results in the abolition of 17 maternity wards located mainly in rural areas. In addition, you think this is an incredible opportunity. We have not decided on the same definition of opportunity and efficiency. Indeed, it is a question of births, of unique moments for each parent and not of a medical act. The conclusions of this report are purely budgetary; they are nothing human. A maternity service is a basic community service that must guarantee the best conditions for the well-being of mothers and their babies from the first days of their lives. We cannot join the KCE when it considers that it takes a minimum of births to provide quality care. The creation of hyper-medicalized baby factories does not correspond to the vision of ecologists. Madam Minister, are you going to continue making health decisions coldly, on the basis of numbers by advocating only effectiveness or are you going to take the time to think, with us, about maternity projects meeting the needs of parents at a crucial moment for them, namely the birth of their child?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u31	Mr President, Madam Minister, closing maternity hospitals to save money: have we really come to this today? Close maternity homes for economic reasons! We are talking about abolishing seventeen maternity wards in the territory of our country (nine in Flanders, eight in Wallonia). You want to streamline again and again without guaranteeing the quality and accessibility of care. This is completely incomprehensible to us. Why? Because this will not be without consequences for the other hospitals which will have to absorb all the activities of the maternity hospitals concerned, when we already know the ill-being and disarray of the care workers. This will also not be without consequence for future mothers who will have to travel extra kilometres, in sometimes somewhat complicated health conditions, to arrive in a megastructure for an exceptional event of life, namely the birth of their child, a moment at which it is eminently important to be surrounded by the whole family that you are obviously not going to move away from the place of life. Finally, this would have an impact on the health care staff of these seventeen maternity wards who, in order to pursue a profession they usually practice out of passion, will have to relocate or reorient themselves and train to provide other hospital services. Madam Minister, in your opinion, do the seventeen maternity wards on the KCE blacklist actually have to close their doors? Should the only budgetary logic prevail over the quality and accessibility of care for future and young mothers and newborns?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u32	Mr President, Madam Minister, I had long understood that you wanted to close maternity wards. You had to be blind to not understand that it was your strategy. I wouldn't say that nothing should change. But your announcement, in the wake of the KCE's communication this morning, calls at the highest point and, first, on how to do it. Frankly, there's no worse. Imagine this morning the caregivers opening their newspaper, listening to the radio, and learning that their motherhood, the one where they work, will have to be closed! It's really constructive, Minister! Caregivers' concerns are legitimate and those of future mothers too. Examining maternity in relation to the number of births is a mistake. Pre- and post-natal follow-up consultations, follow-up of at-risk pregnancies, should also be included. Future mothers sometimes have to go to maternity several times a week in this context. The only answer you're giving them is to take care of yourself, to go a little further. That's not right! Closing maternity is a risk of closing a whole series of other services: gynaecology, paediatrics. The whole hospital can also be put in trouble. It's incomprehensible! The networks just set up. Minister, I can only suggest that you change your approach and start by urgently bringing together the hospitals that have been appointed in the press. It's the minimum minimorum. Secondly, it is necessary to examine how these maternity wards can operate in networks, networks that have just been formed. Finally, develop alternatives to ensure the follow-up of consultations and at-risk pregnancies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u33	Madam Minister, quality, affordable and accessible health care for people is fundamental to us. For sp.a it is indeed about the people; the caretakers are the starting point for us, not the institutions. That's not just today, it's yesterday and tomorrow. I hope that colleagues will be as enthusiastic as they are or are still coming. I am thinking, for example, of the fight against pay supplements in hospitals, or the debate on the growth standard in health care. Madam Minister, in the case of childbirth, in the case of mother and child care, these principles are all the more valid. This basic care must be quality, accessible, affordable and close. A childbirth is not an ordinary medical act or treatment. It's not like heart surgery or hip surgery. No treatment is as intimate as childbirth. In addition, childbirth is also an emotional event for the family, parents and grandparents. That is why our future mothers want to give birth in their own, trusted and safely experienced environment. The study of the Knowledge Centre in terms of cost efficiency is important, but it is only one element, which we need to include in the exercise. Especially when caring at the beginning of life, it is dangerous to put everything into cost-effective rules on the basis of figures only. That must not be the only criterion. With regard to childbirth care, one cannot only look at cost-efficiency. The sp.a does not want care factories, which focus only on care efficiency. We want warm care. Madam Minister, how do you reconcile scientific efficiency according to the study of the CCE with the need for warm care and the social need to give birth in one's own, trusted environment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u34	Mr President, Madam Minister, the great argument put forward by the KCE to justify its recommendation is the quality of care. It is true that by carrying out a certain volume of activities, large maternity wards are able to take care of problematic pregnancies, emergency situations such as haemorrhages, or premature births. These are situations that require specific, costly equipment that may not necessarily be available to small maternity wards. On the other hand, Madam Minister, by rationalizing these maternity wards, they will no longer be able to provide community services. This proximity is essential both for the reception of parents and for the care of pregnancies, childbirths, within a reasonable period of time. This recommendation is therefore very poorly experienced by maternity wards, but also by midwives who, as you know, are already working under extremely difficult conditions. And what are you telling them today? You tell them that they only have to work elsewhere, that they have to reconvert, reorient themselves as nurses. It's perfectly inaudible! Minister, this situation leads me to ask you the following questions. Have you checked the data used by KCE in its study? Do you confirm your support for the proposed closure of these seventeen maternity wards? If so, are you committed to working with the sector to ensure that every carer concerned can reorient himself or be transferred to the remaining maternity wards, in accordance with his passion and vocation? How do you intend to recruit new midwives in an area that is known to be exsangued and which is now the target of your economic policies? Finally, can you assure us that this birth threshold will not later be revised upwards, since, in the European countries you cite as an example, the minimum birth threshold is not 600 births per year but 1,000?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u35	"Even childbirths should be more efficient, 17 maternity clinics threatened with closure." That cold title was in De Morgen this morning. This also fits perfectly with the savings logic that we have seen in the hospital sector in recent years. It is increasingly about efficiency and profitability, rather than humanity. You received the study from the Knowledge Centre with enthusiasm. But hospital staff and patients did not welcome this announcement of the possible closure of seventeen maternity wards with enthusiasm! On the contrary, they were shocked and mobilized today to fight for their motherhood. A delivery is a personal and intimate moment and we are all attached to the place where we gave birth to our children. One of my neighbors explained to me that, following the closure of the small maternity ward where she had given birth, she had to go to a larger structure where she could notice that the staff was under pressure and had less time for the patients. Following the protests, the KCE indicated that the closure of maternity wards or not was a political choice. Minister, you have asked the KCE to study the feasibility of having fewer deliveries and savings. But the first question to ask is whether we really have to save money in maternity wards! Minister, are you going to choose cost-effectiveness or human care for patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u36	Madam Minister, the number of questions asked about the report published this morning by the Federal Health Knowledge Centre demonstrates its importance. That report is part of the overall reform of the hospital sector, which you have shaped. The report shows that there are 600 beds in sizes too many out of a total of 3,000. If nothing happens, that number will increase to 1,000 beds too much. The recommendation of the Knowledge Centre is no less, namely the closure of 17 smaller sizes. These are maternities where there are less than 566 births per year. In some of these materials there is even less than one childbirth a day. This may not be justified for the sake of affordable health care. Of course, that brings with it a lot of emotions. People who have children will understand that. I have two children of my own, and I understand that. However, I believe it is important that we can guarantee the best care when new life is born. The question arises as to whether this is possible when a hospital does only one delivery a day, especially in situations where something goes wrong. Because of the emotions, it takes political courage to do something with the recommendations. After all, it seems to be the right choice. Resources that should not be deployed here can be used elsewhere, wherever there are needs and emotional debates. Madam Minister, the recommendations are scientifically based and seem clear on paper. What measures do you yourself see to implement these recommendations in policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u37	Minister, the Federal Centre for Health Care Expertise (KCE) has just released a report on the organization of our 104 maternity wards. He concludes that they should have at least 557 births per year to be efficient, while the current average is 400 for 600 extra beds. On this basis, the KCE advocates – in what is currently only a study – the closure of nine maternity wards in Flanders, eight in Wallonia, including one in the German-speaking Community. Hospital staff are already under pressure in terms of the organisation and development of networks, given, of course, the shortage of staff. Therefore, we must show the greatest pedagogy, be concrete and not ignore the essential: the quality of care and working conditions in maternity and paediatric services, as well as accessibility. No decision has been made, but it is necessary to analyze this study so that the efficiency criterion is not the only one to be selected. Minister, did the KCE conduct this study in collaboration with hospital directorates and their staff? According to what criterion is the right level of quality based on the number of births performed annually in the country's 104 maternity wards? Why does the KCE rely on 2016 figures, not more recent ones? Has it produced an estimate of demographic changes and, therefore, of the number of births in our country, for example, for a period of ten years? What would be the number of maternity wards available within 30 minutes of the proposed reduction? How many women would be affected? Finally, what exchanges are planned within the Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u38	Madam Minister, I believe that the context is clear: the study of the KCE, with the parameters of accessibility and number of births. It is important to note in the report that the quality is not related to the size of the hospital. If it's about something, it's about quality. It must be guaranteed for the children and for the mothers. The materiality represents only a small cog in the whole of hospital activities. When we talk about hospital activities, we get to the hospital networks. There are now 13 of them. These hospital networks need to be further developed and become more than just a legal vehicle. However, we can see that there is still a great deal of uncertainty on the ground. The tasks of care must be defined. It is necessary to examine the activities to be carried out in a basic hospital and the specialized activities to be carried out in a upper hospital. The demand for the demarcation has been on your work table for several years. Our question now is whether there is a royal decision coming to clarify the matter? In connection with this, when an efficiency exercise is made within a hospital network and profits from it, what about funding? Can the hospital network spend it on its own? In short, I have three specific questions. First of all, what consequences will you have for the report of the CCE? Secondly, what about the demarcation of care assignments? Is there a royal decision coming that can remove the ambiguity? Thirdly, what about efficiency gains? Are they gonna get back on the hospital networks?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u39	Madam Secretary, you have the floor. I'll give you at least six minutes for nine questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u40	Mr President, nine months is the normal duration of pregnancy. The report of the Federal Knowledge Centre for Health Care (KCE) gives rise to nine questions here, so one can already speak of a heavy delivery. First of all, every mommy wants a healthy baby. This requires good access to care, but also good expertise in the materials. Based on good methodology and thorough scientific research, the KCE now confirms the need for minimal activity at a material level in order to be able to work efficiently. This is also the case in other reports on the overall low occupancy rate of maternity mothers. Maternity is a service that must have enough activity to function effectively. The analysis shows that a minimum of 557 births are required in order to be able to organize maternity effectively. It is even recommended that the number be increased to a minimum of 900 or even 1,000 births. Some argue that the small sizes would work efficiently and be financially sound. However, we see in the MAHA study that, in the small-activity materials, you are also sensitive to the venereal supplements, Mr Bertels, as well as the patients, and therefore the prices of rooms and childbirths, are the highest. So that has a price. A materiality where there are not enough births is therefore more expensive. The number of nurses is too low everywhere, on all services, but there are maternities where not even one childbirth per day is accompanied. What are those nurses doing there? They must not go to other services, because they must be available there. That is where we could be more efficient in dealing with resources, so that the nurses on other services, who have to run from here to there, could be helped. The KCE has therefore proposed a solution to make the hospital landscape healthier, without affecting the quality and accessibility of care and, also important, the freedom of choice of the woman who is about to give birth. We cannot just ignore that report and shoot it before it is read. Yes, according to the study, there are 21 materials that do not meet the efficiency criterion, but they have chosen to close only 17, precisely because of their accessibility, which is different in rural areas than in the city. As far as freedom of choice is concerned, the study states that 98.3% of women of childbearing potential have an elegant choice between at least two sizes. The closure of the 17 materials would reduce this by 0.2 %. At 80% of the places the woman now has the choice between 8 available sizes, which are very close to the future mothers. So I don't understand why that would be so shocking. Let me give you some technical details. In particular, KCE has studied the link between the number of births and the effectiveness of maternity, and which maternity wards could close their doors while ensuring that the population can have access to maternity within 30 minutes. KCE has also checked whether this activity can be taken care of by resistant maternity wards, and this is the case. The current standard for maternity is at least 400 births per year and per hospital, but a number of maternity wards do even significantly less or the hospital carries out 400 deliveries at two sites. This number of births is clearly far too small. Less maternity doesn't mean that we're going to save on health care as a whole, but that means that we're going to use our budgets more efficiently, for patients who really need it. The smaller maternity wards have the largest fixed costs per delivery. Closing small maternity wards means, on the one hand, ensuring that the fewest possible providers of care are required to provide permanence, which, in practice, is often synonymous with waiting and, on the other hand, ensuring that there are fewer under-used structures. So additional resources for services where there are currently too few staff. This also affects staff and doctors in these materials. There is indeed a need for dialogue in the hospital networks, on the ground. People know that this is actually possible. There are already three materials that have been closed on their own initiative between 2016 and 2019. The last one was Geraardsbergen. That's what happened with respect for the staff. There is also a task for the hospitals and hospital networks concerned. The cases to which you refer, such as mother and child care, are dealt with in a working group of the IMC. If a new government is formed, you will have the opportunity to follow that mission. We must also dare to read the report as part of the profound reform of the hospital landscape. I understand all the emotions. "I'm from Aalst, I want my child to be born in Aalst." The emotions are bubbling up, but we also have to make bold choices. The most important emotion is that a mother has a good childbirth and that the child is healthy. I read, for example, that the grandparents should drive too far. If a grandparent has to drive for five minutes... I want to drive for even an hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u41	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, thank you for your clarification. But, in your analysis, you have still missed out on the Regions that are structuring their care offering to respond more closely to the needs of patients and residents. They know their people, they know their territory. It seems to me that responding closely to the needs of patients was the objective of your reform. At this stage, there are maternity clinics in rural areas, which play a major role at the social and medical level, precisely because they are integrated into a health-care pool. Their reality must be taken into account. I will conclude by saying that while the ultimate goal is to save money, the priority is to review your drug policy. I think there are a lot of things to do, because they remain far too expensive and overconsumpted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u42	Minister, I can hear you, but do you live in the same world as us? Seeing 17 maternity wards disappear on the sole basis of the KCE report is really incomprehensible! The logic that prevails seems to me to have to make room for dialogue, especially in the context of setting up hospital networks. We need to be able to discuss these new networks and with these hospitals. We need to be able to talk to the patient associations. We need to be able to talk to the health care staff. According to the figures you are presenting for Wallonia, one in four maternity mothers should close there. This is unacceptable! One cannot function with a vision of economic profitability. To be of quality, health care requires trust. They require accessibility. They require the respect of the health care staff. They also need to take into account territorial specificities. Not everyone has the same mobility facilities. Public transport is not necessarily satisfactory. Community hospitals, and maternity hospitals in particular, play a social role in health-care areas. Today, closing maternity hospitals also puts the entire hospital supply in jeopardy. Do you know, for example, that in Auvelais, 25% of emergency admissions concern paediatrics? It is known that closing maternity wards will cause difficulties in the provision and maintenance of paediatrics. Finally, Madam Minister, the economic argument for closing maternity is not our conception of health care!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u43	Madam Minister, you highlight the study of the KCE. But it was you who sent a press release at seven o'clock in the morning. He's been ready since yesterday, nobody's fooled! You're quoting people who have eight maternity wards at hand. You take an example, which you turn into a generality. Bringing hospitals together, which you have designated; trusting networks to reorganize between different hospitals; looking at alternatives to the complete closure of these maternity wards, these are for me the three issues you need to tackle urgently. Don't highlight routine business! In day-to-day business, you managed to set the hospitals on fire. Your duty now is to create dialogue, to put back dialogue and to find a positive outcome, respectful of caregivers and future mothers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u44	Madam Secretary, human beings are at the heart of sp.a. The parents-to-be are central. They are above the system, above the mere criterion of cost efficiency. For us, we have given birth to a basic concern which must be given an important place in the regulation of hospital networks. Madam Secretary, you can't put the cart in front of the horse. The division of tasks, health care tasks within the hospital network and their financing must be clear before closing down services and materials. Don't push the cart for the horse. Ladies and gentlemen, in the health care landscape, let us not just look at the materials that are now in the study. There are other areas in which much more efficiency gains can be achieved, for example in medical imaging, in the overconsumption of some medicines and in the prices of some medicines. Let us look at this with equal enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answers. First of all, I was extremely shocked by your budgetary argument. In your view, it is maternity and women who should compensate for the cost-saving measures you have imposed on health care over the past five years, in order to refinance other medical sectors that you consider to be more important. As I have already said, I can perfectly hear the argument about the quality of care, but if we discuss it seriously in consultation with those concerned – but that has not been the case. You ordered this study, Madam Minister. You claim that the volume of activities has been analyzed. That's not true, according to the maternity wards in question. Similarly, you talk about the criterion of proximity and accessibility. However, the study does not take account of road traffic, traffic congestion, weather, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u46	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u47	Minister, I urge you not to penalize women and maternity, and not to punish the nursing staff who chose this profession by vocation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u48	Minister, you persist in your logic of profitability. Instead, we should discuss how to invest in hospitals, where midwives do not have time to stay with patients to promote human and as natural delivery as possible. It is not a question of whether we can still cut in budgets. Today, you propose that we take money from moms and babies to give it to the old people. No! We need more resources in health care. If you agree, the PTB has developed a lot of ideas to refinance the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u49	Mr President, I sometimes wonder if colleagues who ask questions always listen to the answers. I understand that it is mainly about the health of the children, the babies and the mothers. This is also one of the concerns expressed in the report. We really do need materials that have sufficient knowledge and skills to provide this care. I am also pleased, Madam Minister, that you confirm that there is no need for concern and that mothers can still give birth within a half-hour radius of where they live and often even in at least two sizes. I certainly support your vision of using resources in an efficient way, in general for our health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answers. Of course it is necessary to be efficient in order to guarantee quality in the long term, but budgetary logic cannot be the only criterion. Quality and accessibility must remain the priority for staff, mothers and newborns. Today, 80 per cent of women in our country have a large maternity choice 30 minutes away from home. This must continue in the years to come, and I can assure you that the MR Group will ensure this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u51	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Close and high quality care is essential for us. This also applies to the materials, but if we want to organise ourselves on the ground, our hospital networks seem to be best placed to make the considerations. It is also important that they know where they stand, that they know which care assignments are allocated to hospitals and that they know how the funding works. I have listened to your answer, and I have also heard that the definition of care tasks is not yet before today. We regret that, because we believe that this is essential in order to clarify the field and to turn it into quality care. We believe that it is your duty as Minister to provide that clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u52	Madam Secretary, along with 600 000 carers and more than 800 000 dependent on those carers for their care, I am becoming impatient. I am getting impatient because in May last year we in Parliament decided to recognise carers and give them a month's leave. Normally, the regulation would have entered into force on 1 October last year, but when I interviewed you about it here in the Chamber at the end of September, it turned out that the implementing decisions were not yet ready. A number of steps still needed to be taken. Among other things, you had to ask for the advice of the Data Protection Authority and then you could go to the Council of State. You confirmed this to us in the Committee on Social Affairs after that. Now it appears that the Data Protection Authority already gave its opinion on 29 November. In the meantime, I still don't see anything from the KB to recognize the carers. It should have been possible to apply for leave on 1 October. Now we're three and a half months later. Although I admit that it is in my nature to be a little impatient, I think my impatience is now justified. What steps do you need to take to ensure that the KB is published? When will carers be able to apply for leave?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u53	Mrs Lanjri, like you, I believe that this is an important law. I reported that, too. However, on 17 May 2019, when the law was passed, I also knew that it was not feasible to implement this in October 2019, as I pointed out at the time. Together with Prime Minister Peeters and now Mrs Muylle, we are doing all we can to get the royal decisions published as soon as possible. Indeed, the opinion of the Data Protection Authority, which needs more than 30 days, came on 29 November 2019. After that, however, there is still a lot to be done to make a royal decision. It's done by the administration. I'm sorry. You are impatient; so am I. The staff of the administration, however, also take Christmas and New Year holidays. Soon the Royal Decree will be submitted to the Council of State. When you think about it, you will realise that it was unrealistic to declare in May 2019 that the legislation would be there on 1 October 2019. That's never possible. If you had just added up all the deadlines, you would have reached New Year's, without taking into account the fact that Minister Peeters has been replaced by Mrs Muylle. It is true that all this has delayed the file. That's normal for a change in a cabinet. We do this in cooperation. The legislation will come. I'll be very happy, just like you, when that day comes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u54	Madam Secretary, what did you just tell us here? You've told me that we're telling people vesicles. Parliament then stated that the legislation would enter into force on 1 October. At that time, there was no amendment or amendment from your group to postpone entry into force. That didn't happen. When we make promises to the people, we must respect them. I understand there may already be something between bikes. I also understand that there has been an election. Finally, October 1, 2019 is over. In the meantime, you have the opinion of the Data Protection Authority. It is there, but you still haven't linked back to the government, what you should actually do, to go to the Council of State effectively afterwards. Having said that, I also note that you mention Mrs Muylle. She's done her job. She awaits your royal decision. Without your decision, she will not be able to continue. I call on you to put the dossier in order as quickly as possible in the interests of the 600 000 carers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u55	Mr President, Minister, the first M7 cars have arrived on our tracks; today they are in the test phase on the rail network. According to the information we have been able to gather in recent days, it would be too high compared to the docks. This height problem has been known since 2015, even before the production of the above mentioned cars since the M6 were already not accessible to people with reduced mobility, without the installation of a car access ramp. The National Superior Council for Persons with Disabilities, Unia and the Advisory Committee for Railway Travellers alerted the federal government and SNCB to this abnormal and discriminatory situation. On July 2, 2015, Minister, while we were together with Patrick Prévot and others in the Wallonia Parliament, the Federal Parliament adopted a resolution to improve the quality of rail transport for people with reduced mobility. Unfortunately, today, the new M7 cars are still not accessible to disabled people, people with strollers, commuters with bicycles, shopping carts or suitcases, children. Minister, was the requirement in terms of accessibility included in the specifications describing the M7 order? Otherwise, as is possible? Had the government been aware of these specifications, especially since there was a motion for a resolution calling on the government to be careful and to make every effort to ensure accessibility for people with reduced mobility? What does SNCB intend to do to correct this situation? I am thinking of the cars already in place, but also those that will occupy our rail network in the years to come? Finally, the M7s are currently being tested on the Liège-Brussels line; they will soon be tested on the Eupen-Ostende line. What about the lines to Luxembourg? When this happens, will SNCB have corrected this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u56	Mr Minister, we are now 2020 but passengers with wheelchairs or passengers who are difficult to get on the train are still having difficulties despite the purchase of the new carriages that will also be on our Belgian track from this week on. Modern, comfortable trains with extra capacity, equipment that we urgently need to make the modal shift. However, taking the train with a mobile restriction will still be a problem with these newest trains over the next 30 years. There will still have to be reserved in advance to have a place on the train. For people with disabilities, this is a blow to the face. Despite the efforts made by SNCB to increase the accessibility of the stations, including a new coordinator on Accessibility and the investment in platform increases, this decision does not take sufficient account of each traveller. I'm not just saying that. That's what the National High Council for Persons with a Handicap says. I therefore urge you, Minister, to sit with SNCB as a matter of urgency. Please take into account the advice of the National High Council for Persons with a Handicap. Take into account the people with disabilities and be ambitious. Put every customer at the center.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u57	Colleagues, I have read the statements of the National High Council of Persons with Disabilities on the new M7 material. SNCB states that it is aware of this problem in terms of accessibility. The concept of M7 is for SNCB a compromise between the two existing dock height standards: 55 and 76 cm. There are different technical reasons for this. Multifunctional M7s feature a specific space for wheelchairs. The first M7s are in the test phase between Brussels and Liège. The M7 is the contract of the century for SNCB. The government has invested EUR 1.3 billion in this train for the future. Tens of thousands of commuters will be able to travel a lot more comfortably each day. A formal commissioning will follow in the coming months. This new material and its use will obviously be the subject of an ongoing evaluation of SNCB, particularly with regard to accessibility. The new disc has not yet been ordered. A general evaluation of the first M7 should be carried out first. It is false to believe that SNCB does not pay attention to persons with reduced mobility. The number of stations where assistance can be requested up to three hours before departure has more than doubled two years ago. Moreover, these are stations where the vast majority of passengers board. Since 1 January 2020, SNCB has appointed an Accessibility and Disability Coordinator. The following year an additional EUR 100 million was provided for adjustments to stations in favour of persons with disabilities. Our goal is clear: everyone must be able to catch the train in a smooth way. We're working hard on that. The positive figures presented yesterday on the number of customers and customer satisfaction are clear. The government and SNCB have gone the right way and more and more people are making the positive choice for the train. An increase of 11% in the number of travellers in three years is unseen. I'm not surprised by that result. Punctuality has been improved and transport supply has been significantly expanded. SNCB prepares the future every day, caring for all its customers. No one must be or will be forgotten!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answers. I almost want to say that some engineers who have designed these new cars are not competent because solutions are imaginable to access these cars. I therefore ask you to influence SNCB in order to possibly have the specifications reviewed in order to equip these cars with a system allowing access to the disabled without having to use the access ramps. I'm counting on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u59	Mr President, Minister, I understand that SNCB is making efforts to improve accessibility, but much remains to be done. There are undoubtedly a lot of technical challenges involved in this work, but the ambition may be, no must be, higher. The comfort of each customer must be central. Minister, you invited the Mobility Committee to meet the B for you team, which is working daily on the accessibility of trains. I hope that we will be able to do this quickly so that we can understand the problem even better. I am working with my colleague Tim Vandenput on a resolution to improve accessibility. I'll keep knocking on this nail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u60	Madam Minister, yesterday, in the Committee on the Interior, you presented some interesting figures on the activating nature of the benefits, which, by the way, were limited to three years in 2011. I thought that I would never use the PS as an argument of authority in this matter, but it was indeed the Di Rupo Government that decided to limit this benefit in time. Dare to say again that this would by definition be antisocial. The Michael I Government subsequently tightened the conditions of access to the same benefit. Now, the figures you presented yesterday show that some 43% of those whose integration allowance expired in the first semester of 2018 were already working after six months after the end of that benefit. This is a finding that is in line with the figures published earlier by the RVA: 53% of these people are active six months after the end of the integration allowance, while only 13% are moving towards living wage. In other words, tightening the access conditions for such a benefit is activating. It should also be made clear that the panic of the trade unions at the time, and still today, about the activation of social benefits is completely unfounded. It is clear that such measures do work and that these measures are not followed by massive inactivity and living wage. The Michael I government also decided to strengthen the active nature of unemployment benefits by significantly strengthening the degressivity. I have the following question for you, Madam Secretary. Why have you not implemented that policy until today, when you know, as we know, that it is activating, that it is bringing more people to work, and that it also ensures the affordability of our social security?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u61	Mr Anseuw, we were able to discuss yesterday in committee and this morning the report of the High Council for Employment on the level of activity in our country was also presented. With a rate of activity of 68 %, today we are still far below the European average of 74 %. In addition to traditional groups of women, low-skilled people, single people with children under six years of age and non-EU citizens, there are still two large groups with a very low activity rate, in particular young people between 18 and 25 years of age and those over 55 years of age. We see the activity rate in this last group rise, but at 60 years there is still a very strong fall. In the case of unemployment benefits, measures have already been taken with regard to degressivity. You mentioned that in your question. I agree with you that this is not enough. It is important that the next government takes additional measures that are socially just, but which also facilitate activation. We now see that low-income people who fall back on benefits lose 300 to 400 euros very quickly and are at the limit of living wages. Of course, they can't settle in there. For this reason, a proposal could be made to increase the initial allowance and make the degressivity even stronger. As a result, these people would be much more powerfully activated. There are still a lot of measures to be taken. I am thinking, for example, of training and training in the face of the bottleneck professions, which could then partly stop the degressivity. There are still a lot of measures to be taken today, including in the calculation of unemployment benefits, to implement this activation. The menu for the next government has become very clear this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u62	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer, although I disagree fundamentally on one point. We agree that increasing access conditions and limiting social benefits, including unemployment benefits, is an active factor. In their respective government agreements, the three Regions also make it clear that they want to increase that level of activity. I think you should do what you can. You refer to the next government, but this is definitely policy. So you can perfectly do what you need to do in the context of current cases to strengthen that degressivity. Having said that, you have also said that it might be a good thing that if we were to limit unemployment benefits in time, which may also be much higher in the first few months than is the case today. The N-VA is not sitting still and has tabled a legislative proposal in which we are working on increased degressivity and limiting unemployment benefits over time. That is the only real social thing we can do, because for those who still doubt it, the choice is simple: either we keep on the hand of scared trade unions, or we opt for a real social policy, whereby we put people to work, and we do so by limiting unemployment benefits over time. Our proposal is down, and I hope you will support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u63	This brings us to the end of the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u64	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Melissa Depraetere, Kris Verduyckt, Christophe Lacroix, John Crombez.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u65	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (372/6) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (372/6) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u66	Mr President, if you agree, then I will also present my arguments. Colleagues, this is the first time that I have reported to this House for work in committee, and I know that the practice is to refer to written work. But I have to tell you that I really care too much about this file personally than to sweep it so quickly with a back of my hand. I also know that many colleagues have spent time in two hearings in the Defence Committee listening to experts from around the world on the phenomenon of denuclearisation, also in Belgium. First of all, I would like to refer to the arguments of colleagues in the other groups. Secondly, I will mention the two reasons why our group supported this text in committee and today in plenary. The Committee on External Relations therefore considered this motion for a resolution on 4 and 17 December. Mr Crombez du sp.a recalled that our Assembly had already adopted resolutions calling for the denuclearization of Belgium but that Belgium had still not acceded to the 2017 UN Treaty banning nuclear weapons. The new resolution therefore calls for accession to the 2017 UN Treaty and the removal of nuclear weapons from Belgian soil, in particular from the Kleine-Brogel base. Mr. Boukili of the PTB then noted that the US government had decided to modernize its nuclear arsenal and replace existing bombs with even more powerful and precise B61 bombs. He had tabled an amendment calling on Israel to accede to the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. The amendment was rejected by seven votes to four, with three abstentions. Mrs Depoorter of the N-VA indicated that she would not support this motion for a resolution and referred to the discussion of the similar proposal tabled under the previous legislature. Mrs Van Hoof of the CD&V asked to postpone consideration of this proposal to await the reports of the hearings referred to in the Defence Committee. The resolution as a whole was adopted by eight votes to seven at the meeting on 17 December. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if I may, I would now like to refer to the two reasons why the Ecolo-Groen Group has been very willing to support this text proposed by Sp.a. From a legal point of view, I would like to return here in plenary to the hearings of the experts we heard during two sessions in the Defence Committee a few months ago. These experts, including Professor Eric David of the ULB, but also the 2017 Nobel Peace Prize, who came from abroad for the occasion, told us very clearly that the threat of using nuclear weapons was indeed real in Belgium since we agreed to store nuclear weapons on behalf of Donald Trump and the United States in Kleine-Brogel. Dr. Eric David also recalled the ruling of the International Court of Justice, which makes it very clear that the use of nuclear weapons is generally contrary to the principles of international humanitarian law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u67	Dear colleague, may I interrupt you for a second? You speak as rapporteur, but also on behalf of your group. Mr Buysrogge asked for the floor for an interruption.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u68	Mr Cogolati, if your speech were simply limited to the report on the work of the Committee on External Relations, I would not have interrupted you, but you yourself would have included a hearing from another committee in your speech. That bothers me a little bit. We have indeed had interesting hearings, but they have not been taken into account in the conclusions that are before us today. I therefore ask you, as rapporteur, Mr Cogolati, and perhaps also you, Mr President, to what extent there is no interference between the two. We've had hearings in the defense committee. There are no results yet, but at the same time there is a resolution before us today which does not take account of the discussions and hearings that have been held in the Committee on Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u69	Mr Buysrogge, when he came forward, Mr Cogolati told me that he would produce a very short report and that he would then stand and explain his group's position. It'll happen. That obviously depends on the speaking time, but I think he is speaking for his group now. For the rest, he is free to answer your comments. I just wanted to clarify that. He is not reading the report purely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u70	I can tell.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u71	Moreover, what I am saying is now exactly in the report. That's about the exact same subject. Article 2 of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, which we signed and ratified in Belgium in 1968, is very clear: "Any non-nuclear-weapon State which is a party to the Treaty" – this is obviously the case in Belgium – "commits itself not to accept from anyone, directly or indirectly," – not from the United States either – "the transfer of nuclear weapons." So, not only did we accept these weapons in the 1960s – it became a real secret of Polichinelle – but we also accepted the modernisation ordered by President Trump in 2018! This is the first reason to support this text, a purely legal reason, which presents the comfort of relying on international texts. Second essential reason, which I would like to recall here in plenary: this assembly, which is supposed to represent the Belgians, has never given its consent to allow the storage of American nuclear weapons on our soil, on Kleine-Brogel air base. And that is not acceptable! I know that some will note that this is a multilateral obligation vis-à-vis NATO. I would like to point out that other NATO countries, such as Norway, from which the current Secretary-General of NATO, Greece and Canada came, have refused through parliamentary interventions the stockpiling of American nuclear weapons. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is not only legally but also politically possible in Belgium, in this House, to reject the storage of American nuclear weapons in a completely reasonable manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have an important resolution before us, also for the future. What are we doing with the NATO strategy? It may be a debate where it is said that we are in favour of nuclear weapons and you are against it, but that is not the debate. That I also made very clear this morning in De Morning on Radio 1. I don't think a sensible person can say he's for nuclear weapons. I do not think there is a sensible person in this Chamber who advocates mass destruction or weapons of mass destruction. That's not the discussion. The debate is about what is being done in a military alliance of which we have been members for 70 years and of which we are one of the founders. Such a military alliance comes with lust, with many lusts for Belgium. The headquarters in Evere was recently renovated. This created a great deal of employment, including in my constituency of Flemish Brabant, I am very satisfied with this and even in my own municipality, Lubbeek. There was also a lot of employment created in Mons, in Wallonia. So the story is nicely Community divided. In Casteau there is SHAPE, from which all NATO operations are coordinated and managed. Those lusts are very nice. I am also thinking of international recognition, international reputation building and an international diplomatic headquarters. The European institutions, a number of other institutions, but certainly also NATO headquarters in Brussels, are important for our country, for Belgium, but certainly also for Flanders. Let's make that very clear. The same applies to Brussels. Let us not forget the people of Brussels. When it comes to the lusts, of course we like to be there. Everyone likes to slide their legs under the table when the food is served, but helping, cleaning or washing dishes in the kitchen is often a lot less fun. The latter are the burdens. A military alliance is not only about lust, but also about burdens. These burdens include the commitment to spend 2% of our gross domestic product on defence expenditure. These are percentages that reach many countries, but some countries do not. Just let Belgium be a country that has been underperforming for years when it comes to defence expenditure. We don't get 2 %, we don't even get 1 %. That is why we are doing very badly. Everyone knows this. At international meetings and meetings, we should always look away a little embarrassing when it comes to that. President Obama spoke to us on that. Mrs Hillary Clinton appealed to us during her campaign. Mr Trump also appeals to us. At every diplomatic conference at which the Americans are present, they appeal to the worst students of the class. They certainly appeal to us because we just have that headquarters and SHAPE on our territory. We are getting so much fruit from the NATO alliance that it is difficult for them in Washington to understand why we are no longer doing for defence. Mr Loones, an ex-Minister for Defence, understands very well why we need to do more for Defence. Another burden is military operations. I hope that Belgium will have a government that will not look away when it comes to military deployment for operations abroad. I hope that we will not confine ourselves to the sandbag-filling army of André Flahaut. I hope that it will be an army that can effectively fulfil its commitments if questions are raised in the context of international solidarity, the fight against terrorism in the Middle East, the defence of our external borders against the Russians in the Baltic states with air policing and in so many other areas of conflict. It is about Afghanistan, about Mali, about the ever-increasing terrorism and jihadism in West Africa. Thirdly, when it comes to burdens, one cannot ignore the fact that deterrence is an essential pillar of the NATO strategy. Terror has been an essential pillar of the NATO strategy for 70 years. This means that we also have to do our job in this area. The N-VA does not advocate the manufacture of nuclear weapons. We have no nuclear weapons, Belgium has no nuclear weapons and Belgium does not want nuclear weapons. NATO does, and NATO has a very clear strategy, for decades, how to deal with these nuclear weapons. That is a very sensible strategy, namely never strike first, never deploy nuclear weapons first. They are a deterrent to other superpowers and rogue states that have nuclear weapons. That is a very thoughtful and sensible strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u73	Colleague, you referred to your conversation on the radio this morning. We won't remember the rest either. It is absolutely true that Secretary of Defense Loones has not been able to reverse the investments, but he cannot be blamed for that. You say that the discussion is about the burdens and the lusts. A certain Theo Francken stated a few years ago that the whole discussion about nuclear weapons had become irrelevant and that NATO had to drop its obsession with nuclear weapons, a statement that was in line with the decades-long tradition of the Flemish movement and Flemish nationalism. I take it you didn't turn 180 degrees because of Hillary Clinton's angry gaze. I don't see you as a man who's very impressed when Hillary Clinton looks at you angry once. Then why did you change your mind? The debate is not about what you say, but about whether Belgium itself will take steps towards the disarmament of nuclear weapons. Many of your party colleagues or half-independents have for years declared that we had to go hard for disarmament, especially since that was always a sensitive issue in Flanders. Now you come to say that there are advantages and disadvantages. When you said a few years ago that the nuclear weapons were irrelevant in the whole of the military-industrial framework and that NATO had to abandon its obsession, did you not think the HQ considerations, with all the burdens and lusts you are talking about, were relevant? Why did you change your mind 180 degrees on the question that is the focus of debate here, namely what Belgium is doing for the disarmament of weapons of mass destruction and nuclear weapons?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u74	I suggest that you start with the speech by Mr Crombez, Mr Francken, and that the others be discussed, otherwise it will not be clear at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u75	Mr Crombez, I come from the People's Union and I have a great deal of respect for our pacifist tradition, but of course I am not naive. In 2009-2010, President Obama repeatedly reached out to international fora to further phase out the nuclear weapons programme with a number of partners. In that context, you quote a number of statements. I stated at that time that we should give the initiative of President Obama, that initiative from NATO, that initiative from America as the leading force of NATO, every opportunity. But what have we seen since that time? There was the outstretched hand of NATO to cut off together. We won't do that alone. What you are proposing is one-sided phasing-out, and we will not do that. You propose to sign the treaty, because 122 countries have signed it. But no NATO Member State, no nuclear force has signed it. None. We were absent. The Netherlands was the only NATO country present and voted against at the United Nations. That's the truth, too. Name the 122 countries: they are mainly South American countries and a number of African countries, including horrible dictatorships. Apparently, we must be in line with some dictator in Africa; that would be better than the NATO strategy. I can only say that this was a very well-intentioned initiative at the time. If there is another initiative from the presidency tomorrow, from Washington, from anyone, from a number of allies in NATO, to move to nuclear disarmament or to dismantle the arsenal, we will always support it. The N-VA will always honor the pacifist tradition, but we will never do that in a story where we do it unilaterally. In 2010, Putin refused to participate, as did the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. North Korea didn't say anything and just laughed. Those countries will not reduce their nuclear arsenal. You realize that, too. A little realism is needed here in the debate. The N-VA will remain the genuine and sole heir of the People's Union against nuclear weapons, but we must be realistic. That means we're cutting back, yes, but never alone. We have to cross together. It is an illusion to think that we are cutting back and that the rest will follow. What you are proposing here is the signing of that treaty as the only NATO Member State. In other words, we will cross one-sidedly, first, and hope that the rest will follow. I can tell you that the rest will not follow. The world hasn't become safer on it. You know that, too. Not even here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u76	Mr Crombez asked to speak on that point.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u77	Mr Francken, you are not answering the essentials. Why did you change your position 180 degrees? I'll tell you why. I get that nervousness. I know the political history of this country a little bit. In the past, the People's Union did not add its position to the transatlantic establishment. In the past, the People's Union did not say that one would act unilaterally. No, the party was of the opinion that it was necessary to ensure that disarmament was set in motion. That's how it used to be. Now it sounds like we have to wait for a strong signal from America before we move. The present proposal for a resolution does not call on the government to act unilaterally and alone. It calls for a position from Belgium to ensure internationally and multilaterally that nuclear weapons are disarmed because the old treaties do not work. I agree with you on that. There are now more nuclear weapons instead of less. India, Pakistan, North Korea and soon Iran are producing there. That is the result of the unwillingness to disarm.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, the speaker was interrupted, so I shall return the floor to the speaker to replicate. I note that those who ask for the floor to interrupt Mr Francken are also included in the list of speakers for the general discussion. I can give you all the floor in circles, but then Mr Francken is here to take root.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u79	Mr President, I have no problem with that. I like to stand here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u80	It doesn't bother him.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u81	If you say that, Mr Dedecker, it has minimal credibility. [[Laughter]] Mr Francken, I would like to give you the floor to answer Mr Crombez, after which you can continue your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u82	Mr Crombez, you say that you simply want to send a message with this resolution. You do not ask for all kinds of steps to be taken, you want to give a signal earlier. Well, that's actually not right. Your resolution calls for the UN Convention of 2017 to be signed effectively. Through my professional experience, I have learned that we must always be careful with UN conventions. The UN Convention of 2017 was signed by 122 Member States, of which no nuclear force, but some dictatorial regimes from Africa are very successful with it, and of course Venezuela and all communist friends. There is no nuclear force among the signatories, nor any NATO ally. From your sp.a group, along with the PS, who tabled the motion, you are asking for that treaty to be signed. Allow me to read out that 2017 UN convention. Article 1. "Forbidden on the development, testing, production, storage, deployment, transfer, use and threat of the use of nuclear weapons." Mr Crombez, that is not merely a signal. You want to oblige the government to sign that UN Convention, with those provisions in Article 1. That treaty says that we must no longer store, station or transfer nuclear weapons. Its transport is also prohibited, which means that our ports are closed to it. In your resolution, you refer to Canada, which has finished and said that it no longer wants American nuclear weapons, but Canada's ports and airspace are still open to nuclear weapons. So what you want to ask the government through the resolution goes far beyond what Canada has done. What you're asking isn't so innocent. You are suggesting that, in the spirit of the People's Union at the time, you simply want to send a signal, but that does not correspond to what is in the text of your resolution, since you are asking in the resolution to sign the UN Convention. If the resolution is adopted here, Parliament instructs the government to sign and ratify that treaty. If it ever comes to ratification, there will of course be a new debate in the Chamber prior to that. But it is not an innocent UN resolution. The text of the UN Convention is very concrete, with very concrete proposals, and very highly antinuclear. You misread what you are proposing through your resolution. Mr Crombez, I think we all agree that the vote at the committee meeting was very bizarre.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u83	Mr Francken, before you go into the vote, some of my fellow Members would like to interrupt you. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking time for a break is normally two minutes, after which the speaker can reply. I therefore follow the letter and spirit of the Rules of Procedure. Mr De Vriendt, Mr Van Langenhove and Mr Buysrogge ask for the floor for a break. Mr Loones, you are asking for the floor for a personal statement?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u84	Yes, in response to Mr Crombez's words.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u85	About your time as Secretary of Defense?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u86	My long time as Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u87	Yeah, that's a personal fact. Make that very brief, if you will.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u88	Internationalism - the debate will be held - is at the heart of our military and foreign action. I'm surprised it's suddenly a little less central here. When it comes to internationalism in NATO perspective, it is apparently less, but that is not the point I wanted to make. I would just like to comment on the fact that Mr Crombez says that we have not reversed defence expenditure and that they are falling, that we have not increased them. According to him, I didn't realize that in my 28-day term. That is right and I did not have to, because my predecessor, Steven Vandeput, did so. As Minister of Defence, he has taken the necessary steps to come up with a new military plan that is widely supported and long-term, in which we will invest extra. In 28 days, I've seen that. I have been to the Netherlands and we have made the order of the frigates. The mine-fighting vessels have arrived. I signed the contract myself. Twenty-eight days for radar systems from the Netherlands, delivered several weeks ago. We have invested more in Defence and will continue to do so because, whatever Mr Francken says, we not only want to sit at the table, but also want to cook, do dirty work, do the dishes. We want to contribute, because that is what is being done in an internationalist perspective, not only at European level, but also at NATO. All praise for Steven Vandeput for that. I am sure Minister Goffin will now see the results of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u89	That was the personal fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u90	Mr De Vriendt, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u91	Mr President, I had just asked to speak on an earlier point by Mr Francken. He said at the time that the nuclear superpowers are not disarming today. That is just the big problem: nuclear disarmament is now stuck. I wonder whether we share the same objective, in particular nuclear disarmament. We, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, are looking for ways of facilitating nuclear disarmament. There are a number of possibilities for that. There is the UN path with the UN ban treaty. That may not be perfect, but it nevertheless means something that more than 120 countries worldwide are signing a commitment and asking about the major powers to disarm nuclear weapons. This means that the global support for disarmament is growing. Our question to Belgium is to support it. What we are not proposing is that NATO should unilaterally give up all its nuclear weapons. That is not what we are proposing, that is not what the resolution says. What we are proposing is that we create a level playing field, taking into account the fact that the US is currently the only country in the world that still has its own nuclear weapons in other countries. The Russians and the Chinese don't do that anymore. In other words, the philosophy of the resolution is to ask Belgium that these American nuclear weapons should be removed, that nuclear weapons should only come on its own territory, and that they should be used as a token in the negotiations with the nuclear powers, with Russia and China, precisely in order to facilitate the process of nuclear disarmament. That's philosophy. We're looking for possibilities to disarm nuclear weapons. You block all that, but I don't see any alternatives from you. We have a trajectory, we have a plan, you don't.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u92	Mr De Vriendt, do we wish to disarm nuclear weapons? Yes. The N-VA Group will support a serious nuclear disarmament strategy. Let's make that very clear. That is what I said in my speech. What this resolution is asking the government for is not serious, and it is one-sided. If you ask the government to sign the UN Convention, that would mean that we are the first and only NATO Member State to sign it. I don't think this is wise. I think we should do this in consultation. I don't think that's the best way. You say it yourself, perhaps the UN Convention is not the best way forward, but what is? I certainly do not think that is the best way forward, especially because it is one-sided, because that treaty goes far too far. You say that these 120 countries are sending an important signal to the nuclear powers and that we must go along with it. Do you know who's on that list of 122 signatory countries? Iran and Saudi Arabia are there. There are also many African dictatorial regimes, which, in terms of human rights, are miles away from the average NATO Member State, which has not eaten much cheese from human rights. What I will never allow is that we, the free West, want to be spelled out by countries like Iran and Saudi Arabia. I'll never allow that. You are using these 122 countries as the argument for participating: 'Look at how many they are and what a cool gang that is and now we will disarm nuclear'. Look who's all in that club. It is also a geopolitical tool to put pressure on the free West again. Why else would Iran sign this? Why else would Saudi Arabia sign this? Don't be naive, please. In this sense, we stand by our position: the military alliance is precious to us. You say you have no strategy. I have a counter-resolution. You even got them. It's also about weaponry. It is not an easy time for NATO. That's right. We live in difficult geopolitical times. We've been through a lot. Attacks on European territory. Still do. There's a lot going on with the proxy wars in the Middle East. There's a lot of threats from China. There is much going on in this global context. I believe that the Committee on External Relations is holding a lot of interesting debates on this. But I do not think that this debate has been ruined. I believe that this debate has given far too little attention to what has been discussed in the Committee on Defence on the nuclear arsenal. There have been hearings. I believe that the geopolitical context and the reason why NATO has a certain strategy of deterrence have not been sufficiently addressed. I read the report from that committee meeting. I believe that this has not been addressed sufficiently throughout the debate. I am also very sorry that the vote took place in this way. If everyone had been present, I think it would have had a different outcome. It's what it is now. I can only say that, but when we talk about disarmament, I think we should do so in a more serious way. This could possibly be done in a joint Committee on External Relations and in the defence of the country, where all views can be considered. You are on both committees, Mr De Vriendt. I don't. We do have very good representatives there, of course. We have also explained our position very well, as I read in the report. When a process on the nuclear strategy, hearings and so on has been under way throughout the summer in the Committee on Defence, it is impossible to have a resolution adopted in the Committee on External Relations on a roll-call basis when a number of people are not present at the time. I understand two of the desiderata were taken out. There was no majority then. Now we are trying to re-introduce it by means of an amendment. That all sounds a little amateurish, if I may be honest. That all sounds a little weird.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u93	Mr Francken, do you need much more time? Everyone wants to interrupt you. Nine speakers have been registered and all those who want to interrupt you will have the floor. There is no limit on speaking time. That does not bother me at all, but it is 4:30 p.m. and you left for perhaps two or three hours of debate. I believe that it should be possible for a group to state its position on this resolution in a balanced manner for a maximum of ten minutes. If Members who want to be brought up later continue to interrupt Mr Francken, I do not think that the right of interruption is correct. Mr Crombez has already interrupted twice. He's asking for the floor again. You have already interrupted and you are asking for the floor again. Mr Crombez and Mr De Vriendt were also present as speakers. Mr De Vriendt, you are on my list of speakers, together with Mr Cogolati. You are now saying that Mr Cogolati will be the only speaker for your group. So I will certainly delete you as a speaker and you may interrupt now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u94	Mr President, when were we due to conclude? Was that at 5:00 or something? It is a good parliamentary debate, which we must also give every opportunity. After all, it is a very important subject. Mr Francken, we are looking for valid strategies for nuclear disarmament. There are a number of strategies that can work. We present them to you and to the government. You call that naive. What I call naive is sticking to nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction in the current unstable international context. Not looking for nuclear disarmament is what I call naive. We have asked you what your alternatives are. You reply that your party is still opposed to nuclear weapons in the spirit and tradition of the old People's Union. However, I have not yet heard from you any alternative route: neither diplomatic initiative nor a means of pressure that you intend to develop to encourage the nuclear powers to dismantle their nuclear weapons. The only thing you have just put forward is that you have an alternative and that your group has just tabled its resolution. However, Mr Francken, you are well aware that this resolution is about our country's continued support for NATO and all its strategies, including the nuclear strategy. I do not really call that an alternative to the removal of nuclear weapons or nuclear disarmament. Mr President, I am really finishing. However, I would like to further develop the issue of the unstable international geopolitical context. Mr Francken, you are defending Belgian solidarity with NATO, although it is American nuclear weapons. Donald Trump himself, however, questions solidarity with NATO. The 100% confidence bond between Europe, NATO and the United States is therefore much less certain than it used to be. So we can rely much less on the current US President than before, whereas there are American nuclear weapons in our country, and we are talking about an American President who is calling off the present and existing disarmament treaties. He cancelled the INF Convention. He's working pretty unpredictable and third, including in the Middle East. With regard to Putin, those relations have also changed completely. So this is going to be a very dangerous international political situation. If there are pathways on the table to dismantle nuclear weapons, let us follow them with our country, let us support them. You don't want that. You call that naive. I disagree, but you're not giving me an alternative.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u95	I would like to add a few words to Mr van Groen's remarks. There is constant reference here to the Defence Committee. When we talk about strategy, you try to shift the discussion to the question of who is with the 122 countries. It's not about that. It's about the strategy. You say that your strategy is a deterrent and security strategy, which ensures safety. You never say you'll shoot first. It's not because those weapons are there that there can't be attacked. That's what this is about. It's about global security. Let us look beyond those weapons in themselves. The total budget of NATO is EUR 950 billion. That's ten times more than Russia's budget and five times more than China's budget. So it is not just about weapons, but it is about global insecurity. Mr Loones, you say that in the previous legislature you have certainly used all the investments to show that our country wants to increase efforts. You call that the burden. Then my nugget breaks. In the previous legislature, a number of weapons programmes were approved, but the GNP increased by 0 per cent, because no euro has been spent in the previous legislature. The only reason why the GDP increased in the previous legislature is because of the slight increase in pensions. We will pay EUR 5 billion in this legislative period on the programmes you mentioned, but you yourself recently announced a firehouse plan. We've heard the army recently. There are problems with the staff and the barracks. Mr Vandeput's plan was very one-sided. It was only about weapons and it offered absolutely no solution to the real needs of our army. I shall conclude with a question to you, Mr Francken. Are you saying that you might want to talk about abolishing those weapons if we managed to get closer to that 2% of GDP? We will be well above 1%, as you know, thanks to Steven Vandeput's one-sided approach in the previous legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u96	Mr Buysrogge also wishes to ask you a question, Mr Francken. I suggest that you conclude your speech at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u97	Mr President, I have a question to ask. We had hearings in the Committee on Defence, but in what is before us today, those hearings were not taken into account by far. That really is a gap in the decision-making process in the Chamber. I suggest we think about that. The aim is to be able to discuss a number of texts in the Committee on Defence. It seems to me that it is a gap if we want to vote on it today. Secondly, Mr Francken, was it our party that in the past signed a NATO strategy and delivered a Secretary-General, not to mention Mr Claes, who was the flag carrier of that NATO strategy? No. However, it is just that party that you come to read the levites today. I would therefore ask you, Mr Francken, to condemn Mr Crombez's statements and, in the event of enlargement, Mr Verduyckt's statements. Thirdly, Minister, if we vote today on the motion for a resolution, whether amended or not, what effect will it have on our responsibility as the home of the NATO community?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u98	Mr President, there have always been debates on nuclear weapons and the NATO strategy. When Ecolo and Green were in the government, a long time ago, those nuclear weapons were also present and NATO's deterrence strategy existed. The same applies to sp.a. and PS. At that time, however, they kept quiet about it. Proposals for resolutions tabled, even at the time by the People's Union, have been muffled away and not much has been done about it. However, if one is in opposition or if there is an imbroglio, then one is the greatest pacifist. Even if the lie is so fast, the truth will get to her. Ecolo and the PS, co-authors of this proposal of resolution, are part of the Walloon Government. When it comes to disarmament, peace on earth and pacifism, it is not just about nuclear but also about conventional weapons. One of the largest arms manufacturers in the European Union is in Wallonia. By the way, the Walloon Government is 100% shareholder, i.e. the PS and Ecolo. Of course I'm talking about FN Herstal. You are still supplying weapons to Saudi Arabia today. Flanders hasn't done that for a long time; we can't do that from the Flemish Peace Institute. That was a resolution adopted unanimously at the time. Thanks to sp.a that doesn't happen anymore, that may be said. Mr Geert Bourgeois once said that we would stop doing so. On the other hand, the Walloon Government continues to do so, for billions, stipulated in rich contracts. And what does Saudi Arabia do with those weapons? It supplies those weapons to the Houthire Bells in Yemen. The result is hundreds or thousands of dead with weapons manufactured by the Walloon government, on account of the Walloon government. Mr Cogolati and colleagues of the PS, you come here with a proposal of resolution for the whole of the world community, all NATO leaders, a moral lesson, and especially President Trump, because he's the bad guy, he's really the bad guy. But you are your own producer, performer and organizer of war in the Middle East. And you're making billions of dollars on that. It helps the Walloon budget, which is rather cramped, for billions. Sans Embarrassment then comes here to give moral lessons to the N-VA Group, because we dare to vote against the proposal. We have to do it. One has to dare, it is shameless. We should try that in Flanders. If the N-VA government in Flanders tried to do that, your words would be too short, Mr De Vriendt. But it is your own group that does not want to disarm, which continues to produce and export weapons to the Middle East to shoot people. Nuclear weapons are not used, but FN Herstal's weapons are used daily to shoot people. Of course, there's a lot of hypocrisy in the whole story. In many things that the West does internationally and geopolitics, there is a lot of hypocrisy. But let us be very clear. Mr President, I would like to answer two very specific questions. If we go to a contribution of 2%, would that mean that we can choose not to vouch for those weapons? That is what Greece has done, among other things. That's definitely something to think about. But Greece has been achieving the 2% standard for years, and we are still far below it. We are certainly prepared to have that debate. It is certainly a package and the various elements are important in it. Perhaps one can be a little more uncomfortable with the other if one takes a better approach to one aspect. However, we do not have much luxury or margin, so we must be careful about that. Mr De Vriendt, you ask me what my initiatives are, what my proposals are to disarm, how I actually see them. I've thought a lot about that and read a lot about it, but I'm sure you have. I do not think that the motion for a resolution, which is being discussed here, is the best instrument, because I think that the UN resolution, the Treaty, and in particular Article 1, goes too far. One can't do that. By the way, if Belgium signs it unilaterally, while no other NATO Member State follows, that would cause a lot of diplomatic problems. You may say that you are not awake from that, but I am awake from that. Since President Obama's 2009 and 2010 initiatives, I do not see how NATO could take an initiative to make a serious bid for disarmament. President Trump will certainly not help, I admit, but to say now that it is President Trump who is calling NATO into question, that is not right. The motion for a resolution that we have tabled with a number of Members of Parliament is intended to do exactly what the US Congress has done. Mr Turner and Mr Connolly tabled a bipartisan motion for a resolution, a text by both a Democrat and a Republican, who also sit in the NATO Parliament, stating that the US Congress has been outside the party boundaries, regardless of what the American President says and does, still stands 100 percent behind NATO's basic objectives and strategy for 70 years and for the next 70 years. This is very important for the N-VA Group: we want to signal that NATO has brought us 70 years of peace and security and has given us freedom so that we can be who we are and defend our basic rights. That has brought us prosperity and well-being, and we want to continue for 70 years, and much longer. That is why I have tabled a motion for a resolution today. Do I have a direct strategy or idea how to move towards nuclear disarmament in the short term? I don't have one. I do not think that this motion for a resolution is the right answer. That is why we shall vote against it. Are we prepared to think further in Parliament, in the Committee on Defence, preferably together with the Committee on External Relations? Absolutely. We are certainly prepared to think further about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u99	Mr Francken, what you say about Wallonia has nothing to do with it. I can't accept this completely rude speech! There is a new mythomania in Parliament: we learn that nuclear weapons would be produced at Herstal's FN. Absolutely not! We respect international law in Wallonia. There is a committee composed of professors and academics, and Parliament is also responsible. Here it is a real taboo in the Federal Parliament, it must remain a secret. You yourself said that the U.S. Congress is openly speaking about it in a transparent way. The Dutch Parliament also speaks of this in a transparent way. It is also discussed in Greece, Spain and the United Kingdom. Why can't we have this debate calmly in the House? This debate takes place in the Parliament of Wallonia and respects international law and decrees. The Minister-President grants these permits by being accountable to Parliament and the people's representatives. That's what we're asking you to do here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u100	Mr President, I think there has been a misunderstanding. I never claimed that Wallonia produces nuclear weapons. I said that the Walloon Government, through the FN Herstal plant, of which it is a 100% shareholder, produces conventional weapons. I believe that I have said this clearly and several times. I can see the irony that your group is calling for arms dismantling, peace and pacifism, while your group, through the Walloon Government, is a shareholder of one of the largest conventional weapons factories that are used daily, including in the proxy wars in the Middle East. I didn't say anything but that. I understand that the Walloon government, with Ecolo, is going to do this differently. A committee of professors has been appointed. In Flanders, we have had such a committee for a long time. You also wonder why we cannot debate this in this House. The reason is simple: we are not authorized to do so. We're not authorized to supply weapons. This is one of the few things that split very quickly in this country, precisely to protect and defend FN Herstal's jobs. That's how hypocritical it is played. The Federal Parliament is not competent, but I would like to say my thoughts on it. After all, I have thought very well about this, be sure of it. I find it particularly appalling that in Flanders, the Flemish Peace Institute and many academics and professors, who know much more about it than I do, advise not to supply weapons to Saudi Arabia. First of all, because people are not sure about the final destination of that weapon. We can't even sell runners for shotguns to Saudi Arabia. Those professors and academics in Flanders believe that such scum might go to Yemen, Iraq, the Hezbollah or IS and therefore it is not recommended. In our Flemish democracy we have therefore decided not to do so. In Wallonia there are apparently other professors who do not give that advice and do not have problems with such deliveries. I can only observe that your academics in Walloon democracy have no problem with FN Herstal continuing to deliver thousands of kilos of ammunition, handguns and heavy automatic weapons to the wahabist, Salafist regime in Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u101	That point has been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u102	Mr President, Mr Minister, my speech will be short because it has been many weeks, many months or even many years since our House debated disarmament and nuclear non-proliferation. I would simply like to recall, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my colleague, Christophe Lacroix, who has worked on this text and who, for painful family reasons, cannot be present in this chamber today, that the PS has always advocated that Belgium should take the path of multilateralism to achieve, in accordance with the objectives of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, global nuclear disarmament, including within NATO. Indeed, in our view, it is only through such a process that our territory can be liberated from the presence of nuclear weapons. For the PS, this disarmament can only be truly effective if it is reciprocal, multilateral, effectively monitored, verifiable and, of course, definitive. Let me remind you that, under the previous legislature, we had already passed, through one of our amendments on a majority text, a resolution of April 2015 of the House explicitly calling on the government "to promote, through concrete measures, the objective contained in article VI of the NPT, namely the elimination of all nuclear weapons through a multilateral, verifiable, transparent and irreversible process leading to a world without nuclear weapons and to firmly include Belgium in the fight for nuclear disarmament within the framework of multilateral negotiations in which Belgium continues to actively participate in order to free its territory from any presence of nuclear weapons". I would remind you that this resolution adopted by Parliament has not been mentioned by the Belgian Ambassador to NATO in the RELEX hearing, which is a pity. The text before us – and I thank the colleagues of the Sp.a – is truly in keeping with the positions that have been taken by our Assembly. To continue this fight in a concrete and tangible way, we must be consistent between the ambitions we set ourselves in international forums and the positions we take at the national level. We must also be consistent in our strategic choices both in our military purchases and in the European, Alliance or United Nations rooms to which we are a party. It is clear that our country must remain a loyal ally. He must also, as a member of these various organizations, make his point of view, in a constructive and transparent dialogue, according to the road map drawn up on several occasions by our Assembly. If the intention of the great powers is – and I hope so – never to resort to this weapon of mass destruction that it possesses, let us stop, on our scale, from giving to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u103	Mr President, I will begin with the favourite sport of this house: kicking in an open door. Atom bombs, nuclear missiles and nuclear weapons in any form are the most reprehensible weapons mankind has ever invented. I don't think I should convince anyone in the hemisphere. No normal human being wants, after its deployment in 1945 above Hiroshima and Nagasaki, that they will ever be used again. As far as nuclear weapons are concerned, every normal human being has only one hope, one ideal image, one goal in mind. That is not only figuratively, but also literally removing nuclear weapons. In an ideal world, that's the ideal scenario. If it depends on the Flemish interest, that scenario of a nuclear-free world is not tomorrow, but a reality today. We, too, believe that nuclear weapons have nothing to do with the world, to put it mildly. That is why we can follow the authors of the present proposal and even understand if they make it clear that they are committed to nuclear disarmament. No sensible person can actually argue with that. The Flemish interest can even follow the authors of the resolution if they work for the further prevention of the proliferation of nuclear weapons, for here too no normal-minded person with the heart can bring anything against it in the right place. The Flemish interest must admit that it is in favour of these two objectives. In an ideal world this is also the ideal scenario for us, but unfortunately we do not live in an ideal world. Unfortunately, security policy cannot depend on a television programme, because that so far is what The ideal world is alone, a good, satirical television programme. As much as the Flemish interest would like us to live in the ideal world, that is unfortunately not the case. In our view, whether or not implicit calls for unilateral disarmament are unrealistic, not to say unwise, not to say a little naive. I'm going to make the comparison I made in the defense committee: you don't bring a knife to a gunfight. The resolution refers to a roadmap for the removal of nuclear weapons on Belgian soil. That forced us to ask whether we want those nuclear weapons. The answer of the Flemish Interest to that question is: rather not. Perhaps we should also dare to say that these nuclear weapons have become a necessary necessity, a necessary evil. The question is whether we in our country are a little hypocritical if tomorrow we throw out the Americans and their 20 B61 nuclear bombs and at the same time expect them to continue to defend us under that military security umbrella. Our country has been in NATO class since 1949, a class that has been protecting us from bullies for 70 years. Despite the fact that we are not the best student in the classroom and not even the most supportive student in the classroom, this protection still applies. In the group work, which is called contributions to NATO, we like to stick a little away. The only thing that gives us a little specific weight in class is carrying the bookbag of the big, strong, tough guys. That's probably one of the few reasons, maybe even the only reason, why the big, strong, tough guys still endure us in the group, endure us in class and forgive us for not cooperating so diligently with the group work. Having nuclear weapons on our territory is a question of solidarity with other NATO Member States. That's what Professor Luc De Vos says. Who am I to contradict him? Anyone who unilaterally denounces this solidarity must also ask himself whether it is not time to think about our membership of NATO. Asking the question is answering them. Colleagues, the resolution also refers to the ratification of an international nuclear weapons ban treaty. That is a very noble but, in my humble opinion, symbolic objective. In that case, the world power would join Belgium in a list of countries which are not only of a questionable nature, but which have also signed a nuclear ban treaty. We will then have shown how tough we are. After all, we take the moral high ground. I honestly don't see Vladimir, Donald, Emmanuel, Xi, Arif, Benjamin and Kim personally leaving their sleep for that. They will not be awake from that. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you may be surprised, but the Flemish interest bears a warm heart to this resolution. The noble aims of the resolution are undoubtedly no surprise. After all, we too are cool lovers of nuclear weapons. We also prefer not to have a rocket in our garden. Moreover, the Flemish interest makes very little sense to save Belgium's face with our partners in the alliance. Saving the face of a country that fights us in every way possible is not high on our to-do list. Colleagues, a Mexican standoff only works as long as the conditions of balance are met. As long as we are in NATO and we are members of the NATO alliance, the Flemish interest is that we should show solidarity with our partners, that we should keep our word to those partners and that we should dare to assume our responsibilities. Are nuclear weapons in the interests of Flanders? I don't think so. Is Erdogan an ally for Flanders? I do not think so either. Do our enemies have nuclear weapons? I'm afraid so. I'm not just afraid of that; I'm pretty sure of that. Does the presence of nuclear weapons on our territory make us a potential target? The answer is yes. Is there an alternative? Unfortunately, that is not the case for the time being. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the reasons why the Flemish interest will not approve the resolution. We do not live in an ideal world. This isn't about a pageant. I'm afraid world peace won't be till tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u104	Mr Creyelman, Mr Loones wishes to comment on your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u105	Mr President, Mr Creyelman, I was somewhat surprised by the conclusion of your speech. I also have a factual question because you mentioned 'as long as we are members of NATO'. These words reminded me of a debate in which I participated two years ago, probably with your President Tom Van Grieken. However, I am not entirely sure. Your chairman put forward the view that the Flemish interest wants to leave NATO. It would be interesting and useful for this debate to clarify that position. Is it indeed your view that this country would best leave NATO?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u106	Mr Loones, there are no plans to leave NATO for the time being. But when you get to the debate...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u107	No plans for now?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u108	If you come to the debate about whether we should be members of NATO and if the answer is yes, then the logical consequence is that we have to bear all the consequences, the brunt of the bump.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u109	What is your position?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u110	My personal view is that we should not depend on anyone and that as a country, like Flanders, as Belgium, Europe should look at its own interests. If that means, at the moment, that we are on the basis of NATO, and if that brings us benefits, then I think we have every interest in remaining a member of NATO, but if that is not the case tomorrow, then we should have the courage to consider taking a different position.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u111	It is clear, then, that you would prefer to leave NATO. We'll know.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u112	That's your conclusion, not mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u113	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, twelve months apart, we are again participating in a long, passionate but calm debate on the same motion for a resolution and on the same subject: the accession of Belgium to the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. First of all, if you will allow me a brief reminder, during the previous parliamentary term, this proposal was rejected in committee and then in plenary. The position of the Reform Movement is identical to that adopted by the Government in the negotiation of the Treaty and to that defended in committee under the previous legislature: we do not want Belgium to sign this treaty banning nuclear weapons. That is why we are not in favour of this motion for a resolution in – and I insist on – its original version. I will explain myself precisely and in a dispassionate and pragmatic way. Why, ladies and gentlemen, do we maintain this position? First of all, out of political coherence. The Reform Movement supports the view that I will develop in terms of nuclear disarmament. Moreover, this is the approach of our country and our diplomacy. We plead for a gradual path in this area. Other non-nuclear-weapon States share this step-by-step approach. The proponents of this concept do not believe in a simple short cut leading to a world without any nuclear weapons, but rather in the achievement of disarmament through a package of measures or a series of effective components. The immediate ban on nuclear weapons therefore runs counter to the gradual approach, which aims at a realistic chronology of the stages of disarmament. However, as I say clearly, ladies and gentlemen, we support – along with many other countries – the long-term vision of a world without nuclear weapons, which can only be achieved if all nuclear powers commit themselves to it in an irreversible and verifiable manner and if the non-proliferation treaty is universalised and respected. There is therefore a need for a nuclear disarmament agenda based on certain very specific measures relating to two areas of effort: the universality of the NPT, which I have just mentioned, and the resumption of the Russian-American negotiations. The first axis is linked to two other treaties which are absolutely fundamental to our security interests. This is first of all the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), which has not yet been ratified by all States and has therefore not yet entered into force. Secondly, I refer to the treaty banning the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons. While its negotiation is very urgent, ladies and gentlemen, some are trying to delay its entry into force, so that it can continue to produce fissile material.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u114	Here is for the first axis of effort. I shall now turn to the second area of effort. It consists of a whole range of other measures relating to transparency, verification of nuclear disarmament and the reduction of the strategic risks that today constitute the positive agenda for nuclear disarmament that we seek to promote to all our European partners. This realistic position is reflected in my resolution on the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) to be held in 2020, for which I expect you, ladies and gentlemen, to have a broad consensus in our Committee on Foreign Affairs and in our Parliament before, I hope, the Easter holidays. These are the arguments behind our approach in the MR. That is why with a new title – 'Proposal for a resolution supporting Belgium's initiatives in a multilateral framework for complete nuclear disarmament' – which reflects the content of the motion for a resolution that we are going to vote on earlier – that is the meaning of my amendment – we could support this text with these three requests. Mr President, in committee we opposed two requests for the resolution. Demand 2 aims to sign and ratify the International Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons of 7 July 2017. Application 3 seeks to establish, as soon as possible, a road map for the withdrawal of nuclear weapons from Belgian territory. That is still our position, ladies and gentlemen. And we do not want these points to be included in the resolution. What is our assessment of this treaty? It is actually very negative, for two reasons. The first concerns the internal legal weaknesses of the treaty and the competition it organizes with the cornerstone of the nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament regime, which is for us the NPT. The second reason is that this treaty, like the ICAN it supports, is addressed exclusively to Western democracies, which means that it does not put any pressure on other countries. In fact, ICAN has not taken any steps towards Russia, China, North Korea or Iran. In our view, the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons will not serve the cause of disarmament, since no nuclear-weapon State will sign it. It will therefore have no impact in the real world in terms of decreasing the size of arsenals. On the other hand, it is a treaty that undermines our realistic approach to disarmament on a step-by-step basis. That is why Belgium has not participated in the negotiation of this Treaty and is not a signatory country. Finally, this treaty will divert us from next year's NPT Review Conference. As you know, this conference will take place between 27 April 2020 and 22 May 2020. I encourage you to read, co-sign, amend, adopt the resolution to which I referred, my resolution concerning the 2020 NPT Review Conference. Mr President, the second point that we reject is, as I explained earlier, the request 3 or the withdrawal of nuclear weapons supposed to be stored in Kleine-Brogel. On this point, the government's position has in fact never changed in decades. Belgium agrees with NATO's strategic concept that deterrence is based on conventional and nuclear capabilities. Until the conditions for the global eradication of nuclear weapons are met, we believe that NATO remains a secure and effective alliance with a nuclear deterrent capability. As a reliable ally – this is important – and in solidarity with NATO, the Atlantic Alliance, we will neither take nor support any unilateral initiative. In this debate, ladies and gentlemen, there are some who speak of Polichinelle's secret or of breaking open doors. I simply recall that Belgium has never confirmed or invalidated the presence of nuclear weapons on its territory. This is a repeated position, I would like to make it clear, by the previous governments, where there were liberal, socialist, social-Christian, environmentalist partners, or even the N-VA, if we go back the last 20 years. It's important to make that clear. Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, the position of the MR Group is that we will vote on the resolution with these three requests and a new title, as proposed by our amendment. We would oppose another formula.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the authors of the proposal for putting the important issues of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation on the agenda through their proposal for a resolution. For our group, initiatives on disarmament, arms control and non-proliferation remain an important focus of Belgian foreign policy. Our federal government is also effectively distinguished in a favourable way throughout the international community. CD&V is in favour of a nuclear-free world and concrete steps in this direction. It is equally clear that we are opting for a realistic and pragmatic approach in our quest for a nuclear-free world, all the more so at a time when international and geopolitical tensions are growing on the world stage. For us, nuclear disarmament must always be viewed in a multilateral context. The most important and effective agreements at international level are and will continue to be the agreements of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. That treaty clearly states that all nuclear weapons must be destroyed through a multilateral, verifiable, transparent and irreversible process. This must be done on the basis of concrete measures, together with the International Atomic Energy Agency, which carries out the checks to check compliance. Our country must continue to negotiate multilaterally in order to free the world and its own country from nuclear weapons. In addition to the United Nations Non-Proliferation Treaty, NATO's strategic concept is another cornerstone of the Belgian nuclear disarmament policy. NATO is and remains one of our most important security instruments. NATO has been guaranteeing security and stability in Europe for more than half a century. All the previous speakers have already stated this in detail. The requests that are before us today raise some justified comments. It is indeed important that our country continues to work for the rapid implementation of the various disarmament and non-proliferation initiatives. It is indeed important that nuclear-free zones be added, including the Middle East. It is indeed important that the European strategy remains up-to-date so that the European Union can become even more a driving force for strengthening and promoting multilateral agreements. But what the text before us in the committee did not pay enough attention to is that all this must be done in a multilateral context and within NATO's security framework. That is why we did not think it was a good idea to take part in the ban treaty. We are not prepared to call into question NATO's solidarity or to give up commitments which, however much we regret, are not supported by any nuclear weapons, and therefore have no concrete effect whatsoever on progress in the field of nuclear disarmament, for which we are working. That is why we did not think it was a good idea to become a nuclear-free country unilaterally. We will be the last to prevent the federal government from examining the possibilities and considering the desirability of an initiative in this respect, but we equally believe that such an initiative makes no sense without concrete indications of a viable result. Decisions on nuclear disarmament can never be taken unilaterally. They must always be discussed and taken on a multilateral basis. That is why we fully support the amendments tabled by the MR and Open Vld. They frame the three requests adopted in committee, in the wider context of multilateralism and the Non-Proliferation Treaty. The road to a nuclear-free world runs through realistic agreements, the compliance of which can be verified and which take into account the security situation. That is why we support the text which we hope will be amended today in the sitting. With the amendments of Open Vld and the MR. Without these amendments, we shall vote against the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is more than obvious today that the world is approaching a world war day by day. People again feel alarmed by an escalation of violence and a nuclear threat. We thought we had left all this behind since the end of the cold war. The United States, under Donald Trump's presidency, applies a unilateral logic. They commit acts of war without warning their allies or NATO members. They withdraw from international treaties, including the Treaty on Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces, which required the United States and Russia to eliminate such weapons from their arsenals. The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons is blowing its 50 candles this year, but its failure is clear: on the one hand, four new nuclear powers have emerged since the Treaty existed (India, Pakistan, North Korea and Israel); on the other hand, the denuclearization promised by those five nuclear powers of the time has never taken place. On the contrary, President Barack Obama announced in 2015 that the United States would invest $200 billion to modernize its nuclear arsenal. In response to this announcement, as many as 122 UN Member States ratified in 2017 a new treaty declaring the use of nuclear weapons illegal. Belgium still refuses to ratify the 2017 Treaty. In this way, we join a select club of infamous nuclear powers and NATO members. The vast majority of the world's population rightly believes that nuclear weapons and their use explicitly represent a serious war crime and a threat to humanity. Our Government does not see the disadvantage of being part of the small minority of countries that have decided to stay away from the most important United Nations treaty in the last decade. Worse still, our Government has for years tolerated the presence of American nuclear weapons on Belgian territory as part of our NATO membership. This is a flagrant violation of the NPT, which Belgium has yet ratified. How can this be reconciled with a policy of peace or, better, with a policy of disarmament and non-proliferation? The mystery remains complete. Kleine-Brogel's American nuclear warheads are offensive weapons over which we have no control. The decision to use these weapons of mass destruction is a decision that would make our country a target in the event of nuclear war. In other words, this decision is currently based on Donald Trump. Will our government keep Belgian citizens informed of such a decision, or will it follow the good old tradition that the government should not warn the Belgian population until the decision has already been implemented? It would thus act like another Belgian government which had in the past placed American rockets in Florennes, while the parliamentary debate was still under way. And we have not even mentioned yet the risks of accidents, which remain even in times of peace, or the consequences that would result. Ladies and gentlemen, the original version of this resolution as submitted to the Committee on External Relations could encourage Belgium to play a role in putting an end to the global nuclear threat and the presence of nuclear weapons in Belgium. However, the two essential articles of this resolution have not been approved in committee. That is why we find ourselves in this absurd situation where the resolution on the accession of Belgium to the international treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons does not call on the Government to accede to this treaty. The PTB has therefore tabled two amendments to correct this nonsense and to reintroduce the request to eliminate the American nuclear weapons of Kleine-Brogel. It is high time that the Belgian Government joined the majority of the world's population and the Member States of the United Nations and ratified the international treaty banning nuclear weapons. We also want the Government to take steps to eliminate the Kleine-Brogel nuclear weapons. If we are to serve the interests of our people and of humanity as a whole, we must commit ourselves to disarmament and denuclearization and not to United States policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our party is and remains committed to nuclear disarmament. We are in favour of nuclear disarmament. It can only be achieved by a verifiable reduction in the number of nuclear weapons in which all nuclear States participate. It is not up to us to take unilateral steps without any consideration of the broader multilateral disarmament framework. That would be brutal and unwise for a country that wants to continue to follow the NATO strategy and support it. We are also living in an era in which other countries are already taking enough brutal action. Colleagues, I also refer to the resolution adopted by the Chamber on 23 April 2015 on the accession conference of the parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. We have tabled an amendment on this with MR and CD&V today. The resolution as it stands today will open the door to the signing of the anti-nuclear treaty. The amendments tabled merely confirm that. However, this is something that Belgium did not want to decide unilaterally in the 2015 resolution. Such a shortcut to a nuclear-free world sounds attractive but is unrealistic and can even have a negative impact on the disarmament process. For example, certain states could no longer feel bound by the Non-Proliferation Treaty, still the most realistic road to a nuclear-free world. Moreover, there is a real chance that the nuclear weapons ban will create further tensions between states within the NPT and within the International Atomic Energy Agency, making it very difficult to take further steps towards nuclear disarmament within these organisations. It is also true that no nuclear weapons are participating in that treaty. The impact of that Convention will therefore be non-existent in practice, as the Convention will only apply to those countries which ratify it effectively. The backbone of our defence is still NATO, with a strong European pillar, hence our amendment emphasising the multilateral nature of such decisions. We, as a country, do not do that alone. Since Belgium is a founding country of NATO, and NATO is until further notice a nuclear alliance, in which nuclear weapons belong to the military doctrine, we cannot in future vote for a treaty that would make NATO illegal. The resolution, as it stands, could open the door to unilateral decisions, which goes against Article 6 of the NPT. Our amendments keep that door contained. I really hope that these amendments can be supported by a majority, as happened in 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you. In the meantime, we have heard most of the groups, and if democracy works a little bit, and Parliament is the representative of the people, the whole Parliament is in favour of the disarmament of nuclear weapons and the disappearance of weapons of mass destruction. That is what we have heard so far. However, has that same Parliament, which is in favour of disarmament, also a majority if it has to adopt a position, had to instruct the government to put pressure on it to move towards disarmament? No. That is what is happening in Belgium, not only today, also in recent years. For decades, Belgium has had the courage to take the lead when it comes to protecting people in need in the world and disarmament. Is that about one-sided imposition? No. That has often been said here today, and it is always false. When it comes to weapons, but also when it comes to protecting people, Belgium has never had the fear of setting anything in motion. Never. In recent years, that has been the case. Colleagues refer to the 2015 resolutions. Some of you were people's representatives at the time, and I know that there are many new people today. All the Members of Parliament, both national and federal, said that they wanted to disarm. Here in the Chamber, it was unanimously decided to take decisive steps towards disarmament. "Resolute steps." Those words will then be printed on paper, some will put their names underneath it and then they will vote. Resolute steps. This Parliament, the representation of the people, gave that order to the government. May I ask, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Francken, who was a member of the government at that time, when the entire population, represented here and in the Länder, chooses to take decisive steps to achieve disarmament in the world, what decisive steps have you taken? You have given a lesson here in the licensing policy of regional governments for conventional weapons. Words are easy, but something was approved here: take decisive steps, dear government. You did not put one, Mr Francken, not you, not your government, not your ministers: not one. It is a problem in a democracy when two thirds of the population are in favour of disarmament and the attitude of the country to disarm, but when the time comes, there is no majority in Parliament to approve such a thing. That's a problem. So the question is, why? Why did Mr Francken talk for 13 minutes about licensing policy in Wallonia and Flanders and not about disarmament? He doesn't want it to be really about disarmament. He is against nuclear weapons, but the situation, the burdens and the lusts!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u119	Mr Crombez, I was not authorized, but I assume you enjoy attacking me. What steps have I taken personally? I was working on other things. I could fill my day. I have answered very clearly Mr De Vriendt's question about my initiatives and how I see the road to nuclear disarmament in the coming years. I said I don't really see that road right now either. It is very complex at the moment, geopolitically, and there is a great deal of tension. There has rarely been as much tension as in this era, it has been a long time since we had this experience, 70 years after the creation of NATO. So I don't see that right away. You ask what steps I have taken, but what steps have you taken in the 20 years you have been in the government? That's not cool either. The nuclear weapons are still there. The NATO strategy of deterrence is a strategy developed by social democracy, supported by social democracy throughout the world, throughout Europe, wherever it is in power. So now I ask what I've done, I bounce back: what did you do? It is not obvious, it is not easy, we will not solve it alone. You will find your resolution a starting point, but I personally consider it extremely unwise to call on the government to unilaterally sign and ratify the UN Convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u120	It is absolutely not right that it should be proposed to act unilaterally as Belgium. Every time you say that, I will continue to refute it, because it is not true. The point I was trying to make just now is something else, namely a democratic one. In 2015, all parliaments, the legislator, asked governments to take decisive steps to disarm. I am not attacking you personally; you are simply the speaker of your group for this resolution. I agree it's complex. Now, however, it is 2020 and if no decisive step is taken, then it was just words, paroles paroles. I think we should get rid of that. It's complex and let's think about it. That is all true, but the government has not even had the courage to congratulate the winners of the Nobel Peace Prize who went for the disarmament of nuclear weapons. It wasn't in there. One phone call from the American Embassy, and there will be here who have gotten that. You don't have to raise your hand. That's not necessary. The big countries would disarm. None of that, they didn't disarm. We would ensure that other countries would not create capacity and we are now dealing with India, Pakistan, North Korea, Iran and who else. I can't, it's complex, something else has to happen. That is why, as a Member State of NATO, whose headquarters are in our country, we are asking for the signal that our governments are not going to be able to send out tonight, because we do not really have a government, so that is not going to have to draw up an international treaty, in which Article 1 must be implemented, in consultation with and with time, a complete ban on the production, storage, placement and transport of nuclear weapons. It doesn't contain anything abnormal when disarming. It is not normal, however, if everyone in a democracy says that we will do everything we can to eliminate nuclear weapons, and then they will not vote in favour. I have a problem with that. This is a call. Don't let it be words. I say the same for the Mayors for Peace. One may wonder why the resolution on Mayors for Peace was adopted in all those parliaments in April 2015. Do you remember? A resolution on the removal of nuclear weapons was adopted in all parliaments in the same month. Why was that in April 2015? Someone has to remember that. It was 100 years ago that the first weapons of mass destruction were used in the world, and so there was a great deal of willingness on the part of the politicians, because that gave a good impression, to adopt a resolution saying that governments had to take decisive action on this issue. It was 100 years ago that the first weapon of mass destruction was deployed. Weapons of mass destruction are always used by the great leaders against ordinary people. That weapon of mass destruction was deployed in Ypres. It was the gas bomb, made with yperite. Colleagues of the Open Vld, ask your mayor in Ypres: there is enough documentation on what weapons of mass destruction can cause ordinary people. At that time attention was paid to the commemoration of this and at that time all politicians were prepared to adopt a firm resolution. That was in 2015, but after that nothing of action followed, just words. Words, words , Mr Francken. You just let some of them roll. It could count. With Mayors for Peace, the mayors of Nagasaki and Hiroshima made a call to local leaders to fight and remove the weapons of mass destruction. There was a crazy enthusiasm everywhere back then. Almost four hundred cities and municipalities in Belgium supported this call, almost eight thousand in the world. Mass support! I have a lot of paper, Mr President, because otherwise I would have to learn too many names from outside with politicians who have supported local Mayors for Peace. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u121	No, it doesn't exist in words. There are 25 members of the Assembly who are mayor or ships in a municipality where Mayors for Peace was voted on. Yes, you raise your hand. You're busted, Mr. Dedecker. You're one of those 25 members from a community that supports Mayors for Peace.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u122	(...) I think everyone here is for peace. Everyone has also said that they are against nuclear weapons. The question is how to keep the peace. I think we have had peace over the last 70 years because of the deterrent effect. Nobody wants to push the button. You may be too young, but I've been through the Cuban crisis. I've also been through the whole crisis around the bombs on Kleine-Brogel. I would not speak, Mr President, but I cannot help myself. I hear a lot of hypocrisy here. Those bombs came here when your party was in power. It's taken 40 years. I have experienced this as a young parliamentarians, 20 or 30 kilos ago. We didn't know at the time that there were bombs, nor did the man of your party. That was Willy Claes. He was NATO's big boss, dropped off for corruption, but that's another story. Never should it be said or admitted to anyone, not even to Parliament, whether there were nuclear warheads or not. I've been there. The chairman will remember, that was with Hugo Coveliers and I was in the Senate then. There was another debate here about the Loch Ness monster. 'Cause that's what I used to call those guns... sometimes they come up. We're 60 years later. They are being renewed in 2020, but we only know for two or three years that they are there, because an American has failed. At that time some MEPs were given access, such as Hugo Coveliers. Others, like Patrick Vankrunkelsven, had crawled over the fence and been arrested. It's a big story. But some MEPs had to swear secrecy and then were allowed to know whether or not there were nuclear bombs. Mr Crombez, your party was in the government. We were talking about Ecolo. Do you remember Magda Aelvoet and the P90s? You've all forgotten those things. Now you're the great pacifist. The government would fall over it. What has been done then, Mr President? Mrs Aelvoet resigned and a belgicist solution was found: the Walls were allowed to carry out their P90s. They are still doing so today, in Saudi Arabia, they are 100% shareholder of FN, but they are telling us here that we are not pacifist. Do you know what is against me in the debate? It's a false debate about peace. I am convinced that we have peace because we are scared away. A bad man with a gunkan men afschrikken door a good man with a gun. If you take the rifle from the good men with a gun, the bath man will shoot you stone dead. That's the problem. What story are we in? We are members of NATO. I may be able to ask Mrs Liekens, but being a little pregnant doesn't exist. A NATO member has obligations. We do not even take our commitments to heart, Mr Crombez. It wouldn't be bad to listen. I know that sometimes it's hard for a socialist.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u123	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u124	Maybe I'm getting too old, but I think there's more and more trouble with a good debate here. I think it is a good debate. Maybe we can put another two minutes on the clock.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u125	(...) You may speak for another hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u126	If you challenge me with a double debate and with a double tongue, I still have a problem with that. We are a NATO member, Brussels is the capital of Europe and we do not take our commitments to heart. That 2 % is not even the case. Theo Francken has said that we are always in favour of the burden, but never for the burden. That is true for Casteau, but also for Brussels. We're under the NATO umbrella. No one likes nuclear bombs, but we hide under that umbrella, and if things go badly, we'll ask for protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u127	Mr Crombez spoke. You have the floor for a break, but otherwise I think it is a good debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u128	You need to think for a moment, Mr. Crombez. If we say that we are removing our nuclear weapons, and you do not even want any more transport, then please bear in mind that the nuclear weapons treaty between the United States and Russia has been terminated at the moment. And then we would disarm unilaterally? Naivity is a warm bath, but one can drown in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u129	Mr Francken would also like to interrupt you, Mr Crombez. Afterwards, you can speak forth undisturbedly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u130	Mr Crombez, I have one more question for you, and you say that I must stop saying that this is one-sided, because that is not your intention or that of the resolution. However, I wonder what your definition of one-sided is. This resolution calls on the government to sign and ratify the UN Convention, something that is happening in Parliament. Article 1 of that Treaty refers to an immediate ban on the development, testing, production, storage, deployment, transfer, use and threat of the use of nuclear weapons. The vote will soon be closed, so it might be possible for Parliament to order the government to sign the UN Convention as the only NATO Member State. Well, that's pretty one-sided, isn't it? Maybe I misunderstood you. What exactly do you mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u131	I think this is a very good question. I was gonna get to this, but I'll answer it right away. In the resolution, this conscious provision states that Parliament instructs the government to sign and ratify it. You have already stated in your own speech what this means, because that is not insignificant. If it has a majority and there is a treaty, it will be discussed in the various parliaments. That means that the picture that is sometimes sketched is not by you, that if we approve it here Jean-Marie Dedecker with his truck that has to carry weapons and there is no transport tonight, is not right. It is not the case that Belgium should immediately unilaterally remove these weapons and immediately close the ports. There is no such one-sidedness. We would have done so, and that is perhaps the one-sidedness on which you are alluding, which is the first of the NATO members and of those who may still have American weapons on their territory, who would have done so. This can be called one-sided, if one considers that it should be agreed multilaterally with all NATO Member States at the same time. Then it's one-sided, that's right. However, we do not want that, and I want to be very clear about that. If you say that the five who still have to tolerate American weapons must agree on this because otherwise it is one-sided, we clearly do not think so. I do not agree with the idea, including in several amendments, that we should agree with the rest on how this will be done before the government is ordered to do anything. That Article 1 is clear. We must move towards complete disarmament and a production ban. Mr Francken, I would like to add one more important point. Reference has already been made to the previous treaties. I repeat that the previous treaties are no longer working. The great powers have not complied with these treaties in any way. They have not fulfilled the promise of decommissioning, and President Trump is even heading in the opposite direction at the moment. The idea that the previous treaties have prevented other countries from developing into nuclear powers has also proved to be false. An international treaty is therefore needed to gather the countries in order to achieve disarmament, as Article 1 of the Convention specifies. If everyone does nothing, but merely waits, there will never be disarmed. Colleagues Dedecker and Francken, you have so often used the words naivety and hypocrisy. I could do that, too, but I won't. That's not what this is about. In the periods you mention, in the first case, I was in the diapers and in the second case in school. I am fully convinced of the period of my party under Karel Van Miert, who has taken the lead in the fight against nuclear weapons. However, you do not have to accuse me of being naive or hypocritical if you do not agree with our resolution. You may disagree with the text before you, but it is neither naive nor hypocritical. The debate is not just raging in our country at the moment. However, several countries and parliaments will have to stick their necks out, otherwise nothing will happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u132	Mr De Roover, Mr Creyelman and Mr Vandenput wish to interrupt you. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that in your interruption you confine yourself to a question addressed to the speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u133	Mr Crombez, I have the disadvantage of my age. In the '80s, the period of the great peace movements, I was a young student. So you can recalculate from when I'm dating. For those of you who aren't so good at math, I'm telling you that I'm from the Cuba crisis. In the 1980s I even set up a peace movement with a number of friendly students, which was very small, but was right, with the in my opinion catchy and recruiting name C2O, Committee for Two-sided Disarming. At that time, we argued against unilateral steps in relation to the NATO double decision. Fortunately, we have been 'followed', although our efforts will probably not have been decisive. You refer to the various resolutions of 2005. You say nothing's happened since then. I just want to say that I'm glad nothing happened. The nuclear weapons have not been used. That's kind of crucial. That is not a detail; I effectively believe in the mutual deterrent from these nuclear weapons. If these things have to go away, and they have to go away, they must be done through a gradual path of two-sidedness. That's the only decent way. Otherwise, we are in danger of being unbalanced, which might lead to them being used. Now I come to my question. By the way, a song was made in the Netherlands with the title De Bom never falls. That was very encouraging. You used the word "signal," you said this was a signal. Then you yourself come very close to paroles, paroles. If it is just a signal, then it is simply a follow-up to the goodwill shown in 2005. Hence my specific question. Does the adoption of this resolution imply the removal of the harnesses in Kleine-Brogel, yes or no? If the answer is yes and it is not a one-sided step, what is the step on some other side that will go along with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u134	Mr Crombez, you say that it is not a one-sided step. I suppose you're talking about all NATO allies? In your opinion, it is not one-sided because only we Belgians, you speak for yourself if you use that name, the nuclear weapons will be removed from our territory. That is why you do not call it one-sided. Aren't you just gonna shuffle off your responsibilities with this? I understand this as if someone wants to hide under an umbrella, but someone else has to hold that umbrella. I personally do not see how we are getting closer to a nuclear-free world by adopting this resolution. After all, what are the concrete steps? You even said earlier that no one dared to congratulate the Nobel Prize winners. Does this bring us closer to a nuclear-free world? I'm afraid to say this. I do not see the point of this resolution. After all, who says they don't want nuclear weapons anymore? Only countries that do not have nuclear weapons themselves say that they want a nuclear-free world. It's as if runners would ban cyclists from having another bike. I would have liked to know your reaction to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u135	You say that nothing has been done about disarmament in recent decades. Do you have any numbers? I've been looking up numbers. In the mid-1980s, there were 70,000 nuclear weapons worldwide. There were 15,000 in 2016, 7,000 in the United States and 7,000 in Russia. How did those numbers go down? This is due to unilateral decisions by the US and Russia. This was done by the disarmament treaties concluded in 1991 and also by the START agreement of 2011. I'm just saying, there's definitely been some major phasing-out. I am simply asking you, what figures do you have to say that there has not been any phasing-out?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u136	I will answer these two questions immediately, because they are a bit similar. I don't understand your question, because she's kind of off the hook. In 2015, a resolution was adopted here by everyone stating that decisive steps need to be taken. I say that the Belgian Government has not taken any action since 2015. You argue that the number of nuclear weapons has been reduced since the 1980s. What does this have to do with the 2015 resolution? Nothing! There were 15,000 five years ago, but there are now 14,000. Those are the figures I have at my disposal. You speak completely alongside the issue. The point is that Parliament as a whole asked the government to take decisive steps, but it did not take any of them. Your two questions are similar. You rightly spoke of our one-sidedness and responsibility. Assuming it was a pure symbol issue that would have no impact, everyone would vote in favour. After all, everyone has declared themselves in favour of disarmament, and that is a political issue. Why is it not just a symbolic issue, but an act with impact? Because there's immediate nervousness. Why does nervousness occur? You yourself have done that: that is because we, as NATO Member States, then take a position with impact, including on other countries, and because we get very nervous in America. A few weeks ago Mr Metsu ran a marathon against the nuclear weapons. That was brave, because he went to America to give that signal. The opposite is happening here: there is a motion for a resolution in Parliament that has an impact, and so the American Embassy is starting to call. If it's not true, you tell me. As far as the question on Kleine-Brogel is concerned, Article 1 states that there will be full disarming. Is that fast? Is that gonna happen in a couple of years? No, that'll take a while. If the weapons are there effectively, they'll have to leave, I'm sure. Does it mean that we, as the only NATO Member State with American weapons, decide to dispose of them in advance, pending what the rest will do? That's not how it works. You referred to it: Greece and Canada did so. This also happened on the Rammstein base in Germany. That is where the decision was made, but that is not what the treaty implies. So my answer is yes, they will have to leave. Then there is the question of consideration and responsibility. The reason I'm so attached to it is becoming very clear here. We are now in a corner, where the situation is getting worse and worse. To repeat with the winged words of Theo Francken, I say this without cynicism: NATO must drop its obsession with nuclear weapons, because they are superfluous. That's my opinion today. You may have a different opinion, Mr Francken, and that is your right, but that is my opinion today. It is a military industrial complex with a lot of lobbying, but it is still dangerous. Some refer to the fact that I used to be young, that's true, Mr Dedecker, and I hope you used to be, but it's not right that no weapons of mass destruction have been deployed in the past. In the last 100 years, weapons of mass destruction have been deployed several times in the world. However, there will be no disarmament with the existing treaties. What will happen? That was also my point about the resolutions on the Mayors for Peace: many politicians will always be prepared to say that they want to disarm, that the nuclear weapons must be removed and that they are against weapons of mass destruction, but it must be done multilaterally, but look at the burdens and the lusts, but the Americans are angry, but... all this makes the situation ever worse. Mr Briers, you refer to the situation in the world, but the situation in the world as regards the danger of weapons of mass destruction in dangerous hands has become much worse in recent years. It is worse than at the time when Mr De Roover did very good things and set up committees against nuclear weapons. It's been a while. More and more countries and rogue states are making weapons of mass destruction. Is what experts say, namely that Iran could do it in a few months? It's not certain, but it's possible. I would like to thank the 25 Members of Parliament who, together with 8,000 other cities and municipalities, said that they wanted the weapons of mass destruction to be removed and adopted a resolution to that effect in their congregation, so that their congregation could carry it out and do everything about it. However, most of those 25 Members are in parties that have announced that they will vote against the resolution today. One can have a disagreement, but if one always says that weapons of mass destruction are to be removed and one then explains that one is not going to do anything... after all, that's how it is. There are no alternatives. There is an international treaty on which Belgium can weigh. That would have an impact, but you'll explain why you won't do anything. Most of the mayors who support Mayors for Peace will vote against the resolution. In fact, we are in a strange situation in which a number of ministers will be attending. Mr President, if a Member of this House is seeking a different interest from the general interest and the national interest, it must be known by our deontological code and it must not be majority voting. I have seen several statements by ministers who believe that we should not take steps. They are the executive, we are the legislative, but they say that we should not do so and yet they come to the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u137	Mr Crombez, I have every respect for your position, which is not mine. However, I have asked you a clear question, but I think you have given a very unclear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u138	About Kleine-Brogel, you mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u139	Yeah, of course they'll have to leave sometime.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u140	That will actually happen in practice, although no one can set a date on it at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u141	Mr Vandenput just quoted a reduction of 15,000 to 14,000 harnesses, but you only referred to that as symbolism. Now you're saying that we're going from 14,000 to 13.980 one day, which you're proposing as a major breakthrough. Well, I'm not impressed by that. The withdrawal to which Mr Vandenput refers did not happen by means of parliamentary resolutions, but after diplomatic consultations, much more impressive than what you are trying to do with your resolution and which may one day lead to a reduction in the arsenal of 20 harnesses drawn up in Kleine-Brogel. Moreover, you say that it is not one-sided, but you do not answer the question of what the other side is doing. Because it has no other side, I'll call it one-sided. The definition of the concept of one-sided is, in fact, one-sided. If it is not one-sided, you must now say what the other side is. However, you did not answer that question either. For that reason, your resolution is indeed symbolic, paroles paroles, which has the effect of destabilising ourselves in the context of NATO, the only real effect when this resolution is adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u142	I totally disagree with your reading of the facts. If we want to achieve the complete dismantling of nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction, then the sides are known. They were also in the other treaties, namely the five that may have, the five great ones. They have said in previous treaties that they would dismantle or dismantle them. There is an international agreement in which all Member States are banned from producing and are no longer allowed to own or transport those weapons, as has happened with other weapons in the past, Mr De Roover. For those other weapons, too, Belgium has often said that you should like this, Mr Dedecker, that we should stop talking about the problems and the difficulties. Let's just show that we're serious and let's start disarming. You know this very well, Mr Francken, the same thing has happened for the protection of people. You may regret this afterwards, but Belgium was one of the few countries that took the initiative for the Geneva Convention because people throughout the world had to be treated and protected in a humane manner. Belgium and this Parliament have often taken the lead. It bothers me that it is still possible to say in Parliament that we want to get rid of weapons of mass destruction, but that on the other hand this Parliament has not shown its teeth for a very long time or has shown the courage to take up a position that is not easy but necessary. It is not easy to say that one might be angry with NATO and in America. Yes, they will say that it is irresponsible, and that since the Swedish Government, less than 1% has been spent on defence. That's not clean. They will all say that, but why are they getting so nervous about this little resolution? Because it has an impact. If a country like Belgium, taking into account the entire history, decides to sign and ratify, it will have an impact. I have tabled the amendment separately once again. If we do that, it will have an impact and, as in the past, other countries will follow. We will not remain the only country in NATO. You know that, too. These discussions are also taking place in other countries. This is an advantage of not having a government. Parliament gives an order to the government. We won't have a new government right away, so there's still some time left. In the coming weeks and months there will be countries that will come to this decision. There are a lot of tough guys here who have made some serious statements. Are you afraid to do the right thing first? Are you afraid of NATO? Do you really think they're gonna shut down headquarters here? Has the American ambassador impressed you so much that one phone call was enough? Or are you NATO spokesmen through Parliament? Why did our predecessors have the courage to set something in motion first and do we not have it anymore? I have to hear here all afternoon that there are reasons not to show that courage. Why?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, I am always in favour of a good debate, but at some point all the arguments have been discussed at least six times. The same arguments are expressed by other people and answered by others. May I present to you the following? I see that Mr Metsu and Mr Freilich are asking to speak. Then I will give Mr Crombez the chance to conclude. After him Mr Dallemagne also asked for the floor and then the votes will follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u144	Mr President, I am trying to ask a binary question, which cannot be wrapped around the pot, because that is what has happened in the last 15 minutes. You mentioned me. I'm one of the Mayors for Peace and I'll sign it again tomorrow. I would like to ask you the very simple question of the mission of Mayors for Peace. You're shielding in this hemisphere. What's their mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u145	Mr Metsu, I have mentioned you very positively. You don't have to look so angry.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u146	I'm just asking what their mission is. I shall indeed vote against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u147	The mayors of Hiroshima and Nagasaki have asked their colleagues from local authorities around the world to ensure that innocent victims no longer fall among the ordinary population by using weapons of mass destruction and thus work for peace. That's the mission the mayors and local authorities carry out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u148	Mayors for Peace's mission goes way beyond that. What convinced me is that it goes far beyond that. It's solidarity, it's crossing together. It is a multilateral agreement with NATO, in which not one Member State can say that it will ban its nuclear weapons. I can't. Everyone here is against nuclear weapons, but we have to cross together. Mayors for Peace supports the fight against poverty and much of what is bad in the world. It goes way beyond that. The focus is on nuclear weapons, but it's crossed together. What you're blaming us for is absurd. You say that one small country must be a symbol file and that we will be dealt with accordingly. It is not possible for other NATO Member States to follow. I have heard my colleagues say the same here. It's a multilateral agreement. Everyone's against nuclear weapons, but we'll have to cross together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u149	That question has already been addressed several times. I am not saying that it has been answered to your satisfaction, but the debate has taken place.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u150	You say that you are absolutely certain that this will have no effect on NATO's presence here or that NATO will invest less in Brussels. I wonder if some of you in your party do not really want Belgium to leave NATO. And then I think of Bert Anciaux, who says it in so many words, 'Belgium from NATO'. Is that part of the strategy, to kick the shin very hard first, or are you saying that Bert Anciaux speaks in his own name and that your party certainly does not want Belgium to leave NATO? A second remark I make is the following. Today, our contribution to NATO, in terms of defence, amounts to 0.93% of our GNP. That amounts to almost EUR 2 billion. The average in Europe is 1.46 %. That would amount to EUR 6.6 billion a year. This means additional expenditure of EUR 2.4 billion per year. Are you prepared to tell the people of this country that we are not only carrying the lusts, namely not nuclear weapons on our territory, but also the burdens, like all other countries? The average means extra expenditure of 2.4 billion. Of course, that also plays a part in the story and is an additional argument.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u151	Is it a rogue movement to get NATO out? No. That's a clear answer. Mr Freilich, above all, you should know. I can speak on behalf of my party, which has a great movement and has fought a great deal for the removal of nuclear weapons over the past few decades. You should know more than others that there are people in every batch who communicate something that is right next to the party line, or who put it on YouTube. If you ask the question like that, you must be able to resist that being the answer. I am speaking on behalf of my party. Period. Your second question was about the defence budget. Our party position is very clear, the resources for the defense need to be raised. That is what we have always said. We have a different interpretation than others about what that means. I am currently missing a Europe that comes with a strong defence framework, which offers an alternative to the faint discussion about armed peace through nuclear weapons. It's out of date. A European framework is needed for modern defence. And yes, Belgium will increase its resources. Mr Freilich, does this mean that the billions must be added immediately and at once? I can't. Mr Loones knows that. He's reduced resources in the few days he's been a minister. Mr President, I will conclude. There's unanimity here to disarm. There are many local leaders here who support the very social-democratic mission of Mayors for Peace, brought just now by Mr Koen Metsu. And yet there is a chance that there will be no majority if Belgium takes a firm position to move towards a new treaty that will lead to disarmament. I call upon you to act differently from the past few years. It is very easy to say that you are all opposed to nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction, to occasionally write and approve something about them, and that's it. There's a chance to move international beacons. My position is that Parliament can better take the lead and give a better explanation for really disarming rather than referring to resolutions that have been adopted before but never put pressure on governments and the international framework to disarm effectively. That would only be words and not deeds. It's possible that's gonna happen here again. I call upon you not to do that. If you really believe that you want to disarm, dare to take a step that can be difficult and complex, but which will indeed help in a new international framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u152	Mr President, I will speak about my bench and I will be brief. Many arguments were exchanged. On behalf of my group, I would like to say a few words. It's a serious, important subject. Many have said so. We thought that this threat would be extinguished gradually. However, the nuclear threat is still present. There are once again proliferation risks and the ambitions of some countries to re-equip themselves with nuclear weapons or to modernize their weapons. We believe that the resolution, as amended, is useful in the current debate. It can ensure that Belgium puts this item on the agenda of international discussions. We did not adhere to the original version of this resolution. In the current context, with threats, with violations of the Middle-Range Missile Treaty by Russia, we believe that unilateral action by our country would be unwelcome and counterproductive. I have heard a lot about a whole series of countries that have ratified the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. I still want to give figures a little closer to reality. I have heard, in particular, some quote the figure of 120 States. According to the PTB, 122 States had ratified the treaty. I would remind you, as can be seen on the United Nations website, that 34 States are now parties to this treaty, including no NATO country and only one European Union country. This is Austria, whose situation is totally different from ours. Far from a multilateral gesture, the signing of this treaty by Belgium would be an isolated gesture for our country, which is linked to others, and which is a faithful and loyal partner, as it should be, of the partnership between NATO and the countries of the European Union. We plead, at the CDH, that there should be determined action in this area. I wanted to make two suggestions. The first is addressed to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence. I believe that this issue of denuclearization needs to be given strong diplomatic action. I had already pleaded, a few years ago, that there should be a diplomat whose sole function it would be. I reiterate this proposal. I believe that Belgium must be at the forefront of countries seeking solutions to this issue, because it is a serious threat. But it must indeed be done in a framework and under the conditions I have just described. The second thing is a problem for a democratic state. It is never possible here to discuss the presence of nuclear weapons on our territory. In democracy, a solution must be found to this issue. We must be able, why not within a specialised committee, with members who would have security clearance, to discuss, in particular, what is taking place today, that is, the modernization of nuclear weapons in our territory. We could move forward on these two issues. This would allow us to go further in this debate, in a proactive manner, but also by having a productive debate, allowing us to achieve the ends we want to achieve. This will not happen by means of a prohibition treaty that only unites countries that are not directly affected by this proliferation. Having a fruitful debate would allow us to move forward on this extremely important issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u153	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u154	Title/Opschrift Michel De Maegd cs (372/7) Recital/Considerans A(n) • Tim Vandenput cs (372/7) Demand/Request 1 • Tim Vandenput cs (372/7) Demand/Request 1/1(n) • 4 – John Crombez (372/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u155	Demand/Request 1/2(n) • 5 • Melissa Depraetere cs (372/7) Demand/Request 4(n) • 2... Nabil Boukili (372/7) Demand/Request 5(n) • 3 – Nabil Boukili (372/7) * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u156	The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u157	The next item is the election for the appointment of a Dutch-speaking effective member of the Standing Committee on the Review of Intelligence and Security Services. The next item is the vote on the appointment of an effective Dutch-speaking member of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Intelligence and Security Services. Nominations were announced during the plenary session on 24 October 2019. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 24 October 2019. On 14 and 18 November 2019, the special committee responsible for parliamentary accompaniment of the P and R Committees held the hearing of the candidates. On 14 and 18 November 2019 the candidates were heard by the Special Committee responsible for the parliamentary supervision of the P and I Committees. The President of the Chamber informed the Conference of Presidents on 15 January 2020 that the Special Committee had completed its work with regard to the appointment of the effective member. The President of the Chamber informed the Conference of Presidents of 15 January 2020 that the Special Committee had concluded its work on the appointment of the effective member. The document bearing the names of the candidates has been distributed to you. (878/1) The document containing the names of the candidates was distributed. (878/1) Ballot papers were distributed. The ballots have already been distributed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. Since the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. At the call of his name, each member is asked to submit his unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum, from my left to my right. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. I would like to remind you that only ballot papers that mention the name of a candidate presented before the vote are valid and that the votes cast in favour of more than one candidate are invalid. I would point out that only ballot papers bearing the name of a candidate nominated for the vote are valid. The votes cast on more than one candidate shall be invalid. I invite the two youngest members, Mrs Mélissa Hanus and Mr Dries Van Langenhove, to make the roll call. I would ask the youngest two Members, Mrs Mélissa Hanus and Mr Dries Van Langenhove, to be called from the names.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u158	Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? Did everyone vote? I declare the ballot closed. I declare the vote closed. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u159	The sitting was resumed at 6.39 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u160	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u161	Voters 139 Stemmen White or invalid 0 Blank or invalid Valid 139 Geldig Absolute majority 70 Perfect majority M. Pieter-Alexander De Brock a obtenu 63 voix. Mr Pieter-Alexander De Brock received 63 votes. M. Peter De Smet a obtenu 1 voix. Mr Peter De Smet received one vote. Mr. Frank Franceus obtained 0 votes. Mr Frank Franceus received 0 votes. Mr. Peter Hartoch obtained 0 votes. Mr Peter Hartoch received 0 votes. Mme Caroline Vanderkerken a obtenu 11 voix. Mrs. Caroline Vanderkerken received 11 votes. Mr. Wauter Van Laethem obtained 64 votes. Mr Wauter Van Laethem received 64 votes. As no candidate has obtained an absolute majority, a second ballot is required. Since no candidate has obtained an absolute majority, the Chamber should proceed to a second vote. At the call of his name, each member is asked to submit his unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum, from my left to my right. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. I invite the two youngest members, Mrs Mélissa Hanus and Mr Dries Van Langenhove, to make the roll call. I would ask the youngest two Members, Mrs Mélissa Hanus and Mr Dries Van Langenhove, to be called from the names.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u162	Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? Did everyone vote? I declare the ballot closed. I declare the vote closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u163	Vote on Amendment No 6 by Michel De Maegd cs on the title. (372/7) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Michel De Maegd cs on the inscription. (372/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 57 Yes No. 59 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on amendment No 7 by Tim Vandenput cs to insert a recital A(n). (372/7) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Tim Vandenput cs to insert recital A (n). (372/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 52 Yes No. [[14]] No Abstentions 70 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was adopted. The amendment was therefore adopted. Vote on amendment No 8 by Tim Vandenput cs on request 1. (372/7) Vote on Amendment No 8 from Tim Vandenput cs on request 1. (372/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 54 Yes No. [[43]] No Abstentions 41 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was adopted. The amendment was therefore adopted. Vote on Amendment No 4 by John Crombez to insert a request 1/1(n). (372/7) Vote on Amendment No 4 by John Crombez to insert a request 1/1(n). (372/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 61 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on amendment No 9 by Tim Vandenput cs to insert a request 1/1(n). (372/7) Vote on Amendment No 9 from Tim Vandenput cs to insert a request 1/ 1(n). (372/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[38]] Yes No. [[39]] No Abstentions 63 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Melissa Depraetere cs to insert a request 1/2(n). (372/7) Vote on Amendment No 5 from Melissa Depraetere cs to insert a request 1/2(n). (372/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 61 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No. 2 by Nabil Boukili to insert a request 4(n). (372/7) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Nabil Boukili to insert an application 4(n). (372/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 61 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No. 3 by Nabil Boukili to insert a request 5(n). (372/7) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Nabil Boukili to insert a request 5(n). (372/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote t is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u164	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on the whole of the motion for a resolution, but I await the outcome of the secret vote on the Committee I.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u165	Voters [[140]] Stemmen White or invalid 0 Blank or invalid Valid [[140]] Geldig Absolute majority 71 Perfect majority M. Pieter-Alexander De Brock a obtenu 73 voix. Mr Pieter-Alexander De Brock received 73 votes. M. Peter De Smet a obtenu 0 voix. Mr Peter De Smet received 0 votes. Mr. Frank Franceus obtained 0 votes. Mr Frank Franceus received 0 votes. Mr. Peter Hartoch obtained 0 votes. Mr Peter Hartoch received 0 votes. Mme Caroline Vanderkerken a obtenu 0 voix. Mrs. Caroline Vanderkerken received 0 votes. Mr. Wauter Van Laethem obtained 67 votes. Mr Wauter Van Laethem received 67 votes. Mr. Pieter-Alexander De Brock, having obtained an absolute majority, is hereby declared a Dutch-speaking effective member of the Standing Committee on the Review of Intelligence and Security Services. Mr Pieter-Alexander De Brock, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed an effective Dutch-speaking member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u166	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents and at the request of the author, I propose that the following proposal be referred to the Committee on Finance: In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents and at the request of the author, I propose that you refer the following legislative proposal to the Finance Committee: - the proposal for a law (Mr Egbert Lachaert) on social contributions due on the wages of paid athletes and introducing a special contribution on the amounts of transfers, No 837/1. - the bill (Mr Egbert Lachaert) on social contributions payable on the wages of paid sportsmen and introducing a special contribution to transfer fees, No. 837/1. This proposal had previously been sent to the Social Affairs Committee. This bill was previously sent to the Social Affairs Committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u167	You have taken note of the list of proposals that have been requested for consideration in the last agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I shall consider it to be taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider it accepted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u168	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 66 Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total The Court therefore rejects the motion for a resolution. Consequently, the House rejects the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-16-55-plenair-ip020x.u169	We must approve the agenda for the next sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the next sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, January 23, 2020 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 23 January 2020 at 2.15 p.m.
