ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u1	Each colleague who has tabled a question will have two minutes to ask it. At the end of all the questions, the Minister will have five minutes for the answers. Parliamentarians then have a minute for the reply. Each group that has not raised a question will also be allowed to intervene in the debate after each of them has been able to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u2	Mr President, Minister, we have discussed the issue of flu vaccines on several occasions. I have a number of factual questions and a number of additions to them. Firstly, as regards the flu vaccination of prisoners, I have received a number of e-mails from my colleagues who, at the time when there was a huge shortage of flu vaccines, received the vaccines for prisoners in the pharmacy, without any explanation. They wondered whether only the risk group A was vaccinated or not among the prisoners. That was just in the period when those groups were split up. Secondly, you have indicated that the FAGG has asked around about the stock at the pharmacists and the pharmacists, I assume, with the occupational health services. Can you confirm that? Is there any stock in the occupational health services? Did you ask them at some point to give them to our patients at risk A? I suspect all vaccines have been delivered to our country at the moment. Will there be more? Have you had any further negotiations with the producers or, if necessary, with European colleagues to bring further vaccines to our country? Do you have a look at the waiting lists at the moment? Are there many people from risk group A to be vaccinated? I would also like to return to last week's debate in plenary, where you strongly defended your predecessor's policy on influenza vaccination. You said we ordered more vaccines than in other years. That is true, but that is only 10% more than in other years, while other European Member States have easily ordered up to 30% more. Has the transfer of data between the previous cabinets and your cabinet been optimal? Have you received the advice of the Supreme Health Council? Did you receive them all? Did you get the timeline? I would also like to mention that an initial opinion was issued in April, that negotiations could be held with producers until the end of April, the end of May and the end of June, and that we have only touched on those 10% of additional vaccines. I have also received emails from colleagues who asked me whether they should replace their protection against covid with bulletproof glass, as they are being harassed by patients who want a flu vaccine. The situation on the field was really bad. How do you explain that sufficient steps have not been taken to put us in such a serious situation where our target group will not be sufficiently vaccinated?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u3	Mr President, I have a general question about the state of the flu vaccines. I submitted my question a while ago. That is why my questions at the time are no longer so relevant. I asked you if we would also vaccinate non-risk groups from 15 November. That date's been passed for a while. Mrs Depoorter has asked all my questions, so I will not repeat them. I would like to have a general state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u4	Mr President, our first colleague has asked her questions very widely, for which I would like to thank him. I wanted to connect to one point. Mrs Depoorter said to suspect that all vaccines are already in our country, but I am getting signals from the sector that this would probably not be the case yet. Minister, can you confirm that the 1 million vaccines that are still to come to our country have arrived effectively? Can we get rid of the waiting lists for the A-group?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u5	Minister, like many of my colleagues, I had the opportunity to express my concerns, particularly on 20 October, about the risk of a shortage of this famous influenza vaccine. At this session on 20 October, your answer was to be reassuring, I quote: "Even with a reasonable increase in vaccination coverage among groups at risk, there is currently no indication that there will not be enough influenza vaccines available for groups at risk, obviously provided that all actors follow the recommendation on the sequential approach". As a result of these statements, the Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health restricted the criteria for defining the priority target groups for influenza vaccine to the following persons: 65 years of age and over; pregnant women; patients with chronic conditions; persons staying in institutions; and health personnel. According to a survey of all pharmacies, 91,416 vaccines are missing. These are, in any case, the figures that came out, two weeks ago, when I asked this question. More worrying are the testimonies of people at risk, including in the health sector, who are being denied a vaccine on the pretext of a shortage. Therefore, Minister, my questions are many, but I think it is important to be able to objectiveize this issue. What criteria or data have been used to estimate the doses to be ordered to meet the demand for influenza vaccines in this exceptional season? Has the sequential approach been randomly controlled as announced? If so, with what results? Is there a penalty for pharmacies and businesses that have failed to comply with it? If it is not too late, can a strategic reserve for health care workers still be made available? If it is not too late, can we hope for a resorption of the shortage to meet the demand of people who are not in the target groups but who still want to be vaccinated? If so, how? Have availabilities been assessed as planned? Are the stocks sufficient to at least vaccinate the two major priority categories that have been recalled by the Supreme Council of Health? Finally, should the extension of the possibility of vaccination not be reassessed, given the scale of the second wave and the threat of a possible third wave?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u6	Mr President, I will restrict my intervention because I have questions similar to those of my colleagues. In the meantime, is there any insight into or all the vaccines supplied by the producers? If so, where are they currently located? If this is not the case, do you have any idea when all flu vaccines will be available to the patients at risk? Do you know if there are any flu vaccines available from the company doctors? Will they be made available to pharmacists in order to deliver priority target groups? I'm guessing the flu vaccines for next year are about to have to be ordered. Will additional doses be ordered for next year? If so, how many? How will you ensure that the pharmacists are delivered in good time next year and that the vaccines initially reach the priority target groups?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u7	Mr Minister, my questions on the availability of the flu vaccine date back to 12 November and may therefore be somewhat dated. What is the situation with regard to the availability of flu vaccines? Are all the groups that want the vaccine being supplied now? Has an order already been placed for the flu wave that we traditionally get in spring?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u8	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, given the gap between AFMPS announcements and field statements, it is important to know whether there are still people who are waiting for a vaccine today, whether they are in Group A (persons over 65 or under 65 at risk) or Group B (persons between 50 and 64). As a reminder, the Superior Council of Health had been very clear this year by stating that people aged 50 to 64 also had to be vaccinated, given the health context associated with the outbreak by VOCID-19. Are people still waiting? On the pharmacist side, are there still waiting lists for these people? We must have a very clear view of the situation. Significant lessons will have to be learned, particularly in terms of quantity in terms of order. Have the specific recommendations that were made been met? That does not seem to be the case. I think we clearly lacked anticipation and forecasting. This is also seen in the light of the way in which other European Member States have carried out influenza vaccination. I would also like to tell you how difficult the situation has sometimes been for those concerned who have actually had to go back and forth incessantly in order to obtain a vaccine. It was also a saga - and I am weighing my words - on the part of pharmacists who had to try to juggle in order to be able to obtain ad hoc vaccines for their patients who were in great need of them. It's not just about learning from it for the next flu vaccination. There is also a need for clear lessons to be learned for future vaccination against VOCID-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u9	Minister, as my colleagues have said, we had to get up early this year to get a flu shot. It was a combatant's journey for those who were able to get it, and many still do not have it. It was sometimes "the wheel of fortune": one could have the chance to know a pharmacist who, himself, had the chance to receive some vaccines, and from then on we had them. Otherwise, you had to go to other pharmacies. The way in which this campaign took place is extremely serious. Today, have all influenza vaccine deliveries been made? Do you have an accurate view of the number of vaccines still present in companies and are they currently being transferred to pharmacies? How do you record the number of people waiting? How to avoid duplicates? If people are not on the waiting lists, how do we know? How many people in Group A and Group B are currently vaccinated or, if so, on hold? Are you sure that during this process - we had to vaccinate everyone first, then where the 50+ had to wait, etc. - everyone has followed the procedure as far as possible, and has respected the priorities? Have controls been carried out, for example within companies, to check whether people not in the priority group had nevertheless received the vaccine?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u10	Colleagues, as I mentioned earlier, it is possible for you, since this is a topical debate, to also question the minister. Are there any requests for intervention? Mrs Zanchetta has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u11	Minister, I'm going to go back to this vaccination campaign, which is all the more important because of the risks associated with VOCID-19, as we know. With a sequential approach initially planned to prevent an overload of the health care system during this period of health crisis, priority was initially given to the risk groups defined by the Higher Health Council. As the lack of vaccines became increasingly acute, a restriction of these risk groups had to be made in early November. For example, people in Group B, i.e. people between the ages of 50 and 65 who are not at risk, had to wait to get their vaccine, as did the rest of the population, since the second phase of vaccination was simply eliminated. A reassessment of the situation is expected in mid-December, i.e. tomorrow. Minister, when is this re-evaluation planned? What are the prospects for this vaccination campaign today? Are there sufficient influenza vaccines available, at least to vaccinate priority groups in Category A, including those over 65 years of age, people at risk in terms of complications and health personnel? Will we be able to have sufficient additional vaccines in the coming weeks for category B people? What about the rest of the population? Finally, it comes to my mind that while some pharmacies are running out of vaccines today, others have too many vaccines. How do you explain this situation? How can we prevent such a situation from happening again?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u12	Minister, before I give you the floor, I would remind you that you have about five minutes to answer this important number of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u13	Mr President, I hope that the time allocated to me will be sufficient. Colleagues, in order to avoid misunderstanding, you should know that the federal government is playing an important role in coordinating vaccine orders, but it is not the federal government that is placing these orders. However, in view of the exceptional circumstances, my predecessor contacted the companies concerned last April to ask them to supply additional influenza vaccines to the Belgian market. However, at the time, the maximum amount of vaccines obtained was 2,969,000 vaccines. Since then, my services have been in contact with companies that are being discussed on several occasions with a view to obtaining additional influenza vaccines. Unfortunately, however, they have so far not been able to obtain satisfaction because the shortage is not limited to Belgium. At European level, some 21 Member States are experiencing or foresee a shortage of influenza vaccines. The importation of vaccines by companies is therefore not possible – alas. As a result, my priority was to reserve the vaccines available for vaccination in the target groups, including health care staff. On 30 November 2020, all 2,973.728 vaccines, to be precise, had arrived at the pharmaceutical companies, of which 2,964.650 were distributed to wholesalers and pharmacists. As well as all flu vaccines were now distributed by the pharmaceutical companies. According to data from the organisations of official officials APB and Ofaco, 1.915,200 flu vaccines were already delivered by official pharmacists for individual patients on 30 November 2020. Vaccines delivered under regulations for a group of patients are not registered and can therefore not be found in the dates of APB and Ofaco. On 16 November 2020, around 360,000 vaccines were delivered by pharmacists under group regulations. These include vaccines that are delivered to staff in health care institutions and occupational health services. In the last week, an important quantity of vaccines has been distributed to wholesalers and pharmacies. They may not all have yet been delivered to patients or to pharmacists. The FAGG sent a new survey to all pharmacies in mid-November. The aim is to determine precisely the total number of flu vaccines needed for the priority target groups per category and to check the numbers that are still in stock among the different actors. On 16 November 2020, the number of vaccines still to be supplied to the marketing authorisation holders and the stocks held by the marketing authorisation holders, wholesalers, public pharmacies and hospital pharmacists amounted to 473,800 vaccines. The quantity of vaccines still needed for vaccination of target population according to pharmacist data at the same date was approximately 420,400 vaccines for category A and 149,600 vaccines for category B. In other words, according to the FAGG data, sufficient vaccines should generally be available for category A. I say this with caution, given that it concerns global data, not pharmacy data, but data at a given time, which is already three weeks ago, namely 16 November 2020. On the basis of these data, the Inter-Ministerial Conference decided on 2 December 2020 to maintain the absolute priority for the vaccination of that priority target group. In the second half of December 2020, the vaccination rate for the priority category A risk target group will be re-evaluated. At that time, the availability of vaccines is being examined for those in category B, who are made up of people aged 50 to 65 who do not have a chronic disease, who are not active in the health sector and who also do not live with someone with a chronic disease or someone from 65 years of age. Until this re-evaluation, the pharmacists do not deliver vaccines to persons from target group B. Vaccines that have previously been delivered to persons from target group B may be administered by the doctor. Vaccination of non-targeted persons is still excluded. Then there was a demand for re-assignment of stocks. That is, of course, a difficult question. Stocks intended for vaccination of non-targeted persons are currently re-destined through the FAGG where necessary. At the end of October, the FAGG gave instructions to the occupational health services to report stocks of vaccines intended for the vaccination of persons not in category A. The FAGG has also contacted the external prevention services themselves, in order to determine whether orders from this sector can still be released for the benefit of patients in the pharmacies. For example, more than 50,000 vaccines could be made available to the pharmacies through the companies and wholesalers. Together with my colleague in charge of civil service, I took a similar measure through the letter of 13 November 2020 to the federal authorities, which also mandated that vaccines be reserved only for category A staff and to keep the others available. The FAGG has also contacted all pharmacies with an overstock of 10 vaccines or more, which, according to the survey data, have stocks that are not necessary for the most vulnerable target groups, and instructed them to make these vaccines available to fellow pharmacists. Undestined supplies of flu vaccines in hospital pharmacy, supplied by Vaccinenet, are re-destined to patients in healthcare establishments approved by Flanders and offered free of charge. The physician administering this vaccine should register it in Vaccinenet. The FAGG informs the Flemish Agency for Healthcare and Health about the necessary data concerning these re-announced vaccines. With regard to control and sanction, AFMPS has taken the initiative to investigate pharmacies that provide a large number of vaccines to prevention services. AFMPS has also received some 20 complaints concerning the administration of vaccines to non-priority groups through external and internal prevention services, public services, municipal services (schools, etc.) and private services (supermarkets, manufacturers, etc.)), as well as complaints against pharmacists. If the investigations show that the recommendations regarding the issuance by the pharmacist or prescription by the physician have not been followed, this will be reported to the College of Pharmacists or the College of Physicians, respectively. If infringements of existing pharmaceutical legislation, for which the AFMPS is competent, are found with wholesalers/partitioners or pharmacists, administrative fines may be imposed or a report may be sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office. However, I would like to point out that despite the numerous complaints, no irregularities have been identified in all the cases already studied. The way in which prisons operate is not different from that of other institutions and businesses. The pharmacist may deliver flu vaccines on the basis of a prescription for a group of patients, i.e. inmates. Please note that the pharmacist may only deliver flu vaccines to the prisoners belonging to the target groups defined by the High Health Council, i.e. category A, in so far as the delivery took place after 30 October. The current campaign has shown that full monitoring of stocks and deliveries is important, as well as mandatory registration of delivery and administration. The development of an electronic system for monitoring the available stocks of vaccines at firms, wholesalers and pharmacists is therefore a priority, which you will find in my policy paper. The very clear definition of the priority target groups and the order of priorities is also an important element in the success of the vaccination campaign. This element is also included in the COOVID-19 vaccination campaign. As far as next season's flu vaccination campaign is concerned, my administration is currently examining the various possibilities. This will of course take into account the experience of the current campaign. The question of whether it is appropriate to have pharmacists put vaccines is not related to the availability of the vaccines. The vaccination strategy for COVID-19 is quite a different one, since this is a collective action from the competent authorities in this country, and vaccines that do require specific requirements.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u14	As far as compulsory registration is concerned, I fully agree with you that it is necessary to register in the pharmacy as well as in the general practitioner and occupational health services who has received a flu vaccine. However, as far as this year's situation is concerned, I would like to take you back to 20 April. On that day, the High Health Council issued an opinion. On 19 May, in this committee, I asked the first question about influenza vaccination. On that day, your predecessor did not indicate that she would have received any advice. The first time an opinion was discussed was in June. At that time, the deadline for possible additional orders had already expired. It was very clearly stated that more than 5 million people should be vaccinated and that the covid pandemic called for more vaccination. You say it's not the government that has to make the orders, but the pharmacists. That's right, but do you know when the order was supposed to be in? That had to happen before the end of February, before COVID-19. The pharmacists therefore placed their order on the basis of the data from the year before. If I said here in May that we would get into trouble, it was because I knew there were higher needs, because I knew that the High Health Council had given a different opinion and because I knew that the only person who could do anything at that time was your predecessor, the then Minister of Health. On several occasions, we in the pharmacists' association have also called for phase-out, provided that support measures are taken. After all, it is impossible for a pharmacist like a Roman emperor to say: "You will get a vaccine, you will not get a vaccine." That's not the point. A pharmacist is a care provider who wants to vaccinate all of his patients at risk. He's got to get those opportunities. If we pull the alarm, I think it's important that we're heard in that too. Minister, we are on the eve of a new, very important vaccination. I really hope that it will be handled professionally and that we will not end up in the same situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You say that vaccination of those who do not belong to target group A is excluded. I think the twenty complaints at the BFSA are just the tip of the iceberg. I also hear that there are no irregularities following an investigation. That is not what we hear on the ground. We hear that a lot of companies are still vaccinating. Pharmacists sit with their hands in their hair. Mrs. Depoorter said it, too. They have many waiting for their lists that they cannot help. I hope that we will draw lessons from this, which we will be able to take with us next year at the first vaccination in January and at the flu vaccines. You say there will be another re-evaluation in mid-December. I hope that we can see that more than 50,000 vaccines have come back, partly because of Minister De Sutter's decision on federal state enterprises. I hope that we will be able to redistribute a great deal more, so that a larger part of this group A can still be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u16	I agree with Mrs Creemers. Hopefully, the mid-December review will help the target group further. I myself am young and healthy and have friends who have been vaccinated in their company by employers' organisations and the company doctors. Those were perfectly healthy 20s. I do regret that the target group that really needs it does not get those vaccines. I am waiting with great hope for this re-evaluation and I hope that we can get a lot of vaccines back from the field of work to deliver them to the people they really need.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u17	Taquin, your question has been answered by the minister. If you wish to reply now, you can do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u18	Mr President, Minister, thank you. I hear there will be a re-evaluation in mid-December. However, I would like to point out that many pharmacists have been looking to us for several weeks about the shortage of influenza vaccines. We've already asked you about this. You told us about the postponements that were decided during the month of November. Nevertheless, despite the established phase, which should regulate the tension on the market and for our population, waiting lists still seem to be growing in the officiaries. Thank you for keeping an eye on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u19	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the state of play. I hope, together with my colleagues, that lessons will also be learned from the evaluation in mid-December, which we can take to the next wave, so that we do not see the same thing next year. This year there are a lot of people who don't get the vaccine, when they really do need it. They end up on waiting lists. That uncertainty weighs on them. That is why I hope you will be able to learn something from the evaluation so that we do not see it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u20	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand that the reallocation of stocks is not so obvious, but necessary, because we really need to be able to protect the groups at risk. I am glad that as a federal government we are also working on this and setting a good example by doing it in our own FPS. Indeed, I still hear stories from pharmacists who cannot deliver a vaccine to every vulnerable patient. I hope that we will be able to find a solution to this very quickly by redeploying those stocks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u21	Minister, first of all let me tell you that vaccination against influenza in December is already very late. Today, it must be noted that a significant number of people who should have been vaccinated - particularly this year due to VOCID-19 - will not be vaccinated. I believe that mistakes have been made and that we will have to learn from them. The predictions of the Higher Council of Health were, however, very clear. The failure to take into account this year's situation and the importance of being vaccinated against influenza in an epidemic context is disturbing. I note that other countries have done so in a completely different way, particularly with regard to the excessive quantities ordered compared to previous years. Similarly, other countries have been working on the basis of models of state stocks to ensure that vaccines are intended for those on the priority lists, who are therefore in dire need of such vaccines. It is therefore this aspect that will have to be corrected for the future, not only for influenza but also for coronavirus. As far as the traceability of the vaccine is concerned, I am surprised that the computerized pharmaceutical file does not allow for further clarification. I think that this should be possible in view of the data recorded as and when. We may not reinvent the moon, but work with what we have today to generate maximum data and manage the situation at best.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u22	Mr President, Minister, this is clearly a textbook example of how it should not be done. It is also clear that there will be too few vaccines, because I count almost 570,000 people who have been put on a waiting list. It is clear that there are only about 520,000 vaccines left in the running. That is a real public health problem. Meanwhile, we are still in a corona epidemic and we can only hope that the flu season will be mild, but that is not a real prevention policy. I am also surprised that you really have no control over that supply chain. The numbers are always very vague. It is also clear to me that some people have not played the game according to the rules, seeing how many patients at risk are still on the waiting lists. There are also testimonies, including from Members of Parliament, that they know young people who have been vaccinated. Of the 320,000 vaccines ordered by occupational health services, only about 50,000 can be redistributed. Anyway for those remaining 50,000 vaccines, serious controls must be carried out. We also need to look in the companies who have been vaccinated, because it is a pity to see that we do not control the distribution chain. Moreover, they also get off without any serious control or sanction. That's really not serious. In view of corona vaccination, this episode was very frustrating for general practitioners and pharmacists. General practitioners had written to patients who couldn't get vaccines and so on. In order to know who effectively belongs to a risk group, you will need the general practitioners and pharmacists. You'll also need them for the corona vaccination. It is really important to use it and set up a system that uniquely determines who needs a particular vaccine and registers whether it has been given or not. It is very dramatic, however, to note that Belgium, one of the richest countries in the world, is unable to ensure, in the case of flu............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The figures are all very vague. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u23	Mrs Merckx, thank you. I gave you more time. I let myself be overwhelmed by my enthusiasm and you too, I think. I now give the floor to Mrs Zanchetta.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u24	Mr President, Minister, a lot has been said. Thank you for this state of the stock situation. That's a lot of numbers to record. Even if we know that managing this vaccination and phasing in the distribution to pharmacies has been a real problem, I hope that people in at-risk groups will be able to get vaccinated because it is really important for them, especially during this period of health crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u25	Minister, according to an investigation by the External Service for Prevention and Protection at Work IDEWE, conducted among more than 200,000 Belgians, one in ten workers would take pain medication or anti-inflammatory drugs. Over the past ten years, the consumption of painkillers has been increasing. Indeed, between 2010 and 2018, INAMI estimated that the consumption of opioid painkillers, close to morphine, increased by almost 35%. In 2018, INAMI also estimated that one in ten Belgians regularly used anti-inflammatory drugs, despite the side effects of these drugs and the danger of addiction. Minister, what do you think of the figures given by the External Service for Prevention and Protection at Work IDEWE? Are they comparable to the latest figures available to INAMI? How do you explain such a high consumption of painkillers among the labour force? Do you think you need to take steps in the future to try to reduce this over-consumption of painkillers among the Belgian population? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u26	Dear colleague, the study by the Medical Evaluation and Control Service of INAMI examined the use of five opioids in Belgium. These are tramadol, oxycodone, piritramide, tilidine, and fentanyl. In 2019, 1,129,000 single consumers received at least one box of one of these medicines from a pharmacy open to the public in Belgium. A tramadol-based drug was delivered to the majority of these insured persons, which is almost 92%. About half of the insured people who bought tramadol had only one issue in 2019. Therefore, this data should not be confused with data for chronic use. First conclusion of the Medical Assessment and Control Service: the annual national consumption for the period 2006-2019 is high and increasing for these five opioids taken together, both in number of DDDs (defined daily dose) and in number of insured persons. In 2019, overall consumption of oxycodone, fentanyl, piritramide and tilidine decreased compared to previous years. The consumption of tramadol continued to increase in 2019 compared to previous years. Second conclusion of the service: in 2019 there were 33,293 major users of these medicines. These are insured persons who consumed more than 365 DDDs of these opioids in 2019. A significant proportion (21%) of these large consumers are under 50 years old. This group of young consumers therefore requires special attention. Without adjustment of their drug treatment, their consumption will only increase over the years, given the habituation. Third conclusion of the service: there is an extremely high consumption of these opioids among those who consume the most, the "top consumers", up to 10,000 DDD in 2019. Fourth point: medical shopping means that the insured receives medicines prescribed by different doctors and delivered to different pharmacies, without the knowledge of the doctor or pharmacy. With these medicines, and given the presence of physical or psychological dependence, it is imperative that both providers be aware of the total consumption of each insured person. Currently, we lack scientific studies to understand the causes of this increase in Belgium, but also in our neighbouring countries. However, several factors may explain this overconsumption. Opioid analgesics are prescribed faster and more and more prescribed for poor indications. In any case, this seems to be necessary on the basis of what the service finds. The patient is not adequately monitored by the doctor, who does not always consider deregistration. The perception of pain has also changed within the population and among physicians, so that opioids are prescribed more quickly, even when the perception of pain is lower. Non-opioid alternatives are not sufficiently considered in consultation with the patient. Patients lack information on the consequences of treatment and are not sufficiently aware of tolerance, dependence, mood effects, withdrawal, etc. The socio-economic factor also plays a role. Often, it seems easier to treat pain than its underlying causes. "Do you think you need to take action?" Many initiatives have already emerged to address the challenges, including reducing the risk of inappropriate medication. A series of initiatives are aimed at strengthening cooperation between the medical profession and pharmacists. Consider in particular the important development of the approach of clinical pharmacies in hospitals but also the establishment of medical-pharmaceutical consultations, particularly in nursing homes. In projects aimed at the development of integrated care also, special attention is paid to working practices aimed at strengthening the role of pharmacists in the multidisciplinary care team. Finally, as part of the development of e-health, many initiatives have been taken in recent years to share medication patterns among professionals involved in the treatment of a patient. The VIDIS (Virtual Integrated Drug Information System) project today also aims to support the flow of electronic information by linking prescription drugs, pharmacy delivery, administration to the patient and medication regimen. On 6 December 2018, INAMI also organized a consensus meeting on the rational use of opioids in chronic pain and, on 5 December 2019, on the rational use of non-opioids analgesics in the treatment of chronic pain. In addition, as a result of the service's awareness, the College of Physicians and the College of Pharmacists established a joint working group to raise awareness among physicians and pharmacists of the high level of drug use leading to addiction. The Medical Assessment and Control Service participates in this joint working group. Under the previous legislature, a working group was established to promote the prescribing, use and proper delivery of opioids in the treatment of pain. It brings together INAMI, AFMPS, FPS Public Health, Sciensano and provincial medical commissions. This working group must give me an action plan before the end of this year. This is an extremely important issue. So I really expect this action plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u27	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive and detailed answer. I hope that the following answers will be equally comprehensive and detailed, but that we can move a little more condensed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answer and for putting in perspective the figures I mentioned in my question. You said we lacked scientific studies. At the end of your answer, you have opened a door with this famous plan of action that we are waiting for and for which I will not fail to return to you. As for the overconsumption of analgesics and opioids, you have pointed out one element: they are sometimes prescribed poorly and, sometimes, some doctors do not practice deprescription. I think it would be interesting, even if we know that general practitioners are very competent, to make them aware of the need to practice de-registering or, in any case, not systematically prescribe these opioids and other analgesics.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u29	Mr President, Minister, to recall the legal framework, the Act of 11 August 2017 on various health provisions amended the Act of 5 July 1994 on blood and blood derivatives of human origin. Article 13 of the Act of 5 July 1994 now provides that the King may amend the criteria for the qualification of blood donors taking into account new scientific knowledge, and that "the criteria for temporary exclusion and related exclusion periods for donors listed in Schedule 2(b) of the Act, following exposure to the risk of transfusion-transmissible infection due to the sexual behaviour of the candidate for donation or the conduct of the sexual partner of the candidate for donation shall be assessed at least every two years". This article also states that "the King shall designate the body or bodies that carry out the evaluation referred to in paragraph 1 or receive or provide data within that framework, and shall determine the nature of such data. It shall also determine the manner in which such assessment shall be carried out." It seems to me that it is time to take stock of this evaluation. Minister, do you intend to change the criteria for the qualification of blood donors? If so, on what new scientific knowledge do you base yourself? Has the evaluation of the temporary exclusion criteria and related exclusion periods been completed? If so, by whom, how and what are the conclusions? How do you intend to follow up on this evaluation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u30	Mr President, Minister, giving blood is a citizen gesture that requires certain conditions to be respected. In 2017, a major step forward in terms of non-discrimination and equality was made in favour of homosexuals. Indeed, the donation of blood has been authorized under certain conditions. Frequently, discussions have taken place on these conditions, including those relating to donor sexual relations. Some countries, such as France, have taken the lead. On the Red Cross site, it is stipulated that this measure is not discriminatory, but is aimed at the protection of public health. Lesbians with a single partner are, for example, allowed to give blood because they are not exposed to an increased risk of HIV infection. This therefore seems to demonstrate a clear exclusion of the donation of blood by homosexual men for a year because of behaviours recognized as being at risk. The same period would apply to any person who had conduct that could lead to serious infectious diseases, transmissible by blood, including heterosexual persons. It should be recalled that, during blood donations, every pocket is subjected to very precise tests, including HIV detection. Today, the tests would be even more reliable. There is, however, a period – between 11 and 22 days – during which HIV is undetectable. Minister, could you tell us how many blood donations have been made in Belgium for the last five years? Could you please provide us with details – possibly in writing, if it is simpler – of these figures by Region and province? Could you also give us a picture of the shortage situation in our territory? Considering the progress made in this area and the time frame for diagnosis of HIV infections, what are the criteria justifying the one-year period of exclusion? Has a risk analysis been conducted recently? Are new scientific studies available in this area? Of course, no one is immune to false statements by people – heterosexual or not – who have had risky behaviors or a lack of knowledge of them. Therefore, what are the arrangements for preventing this risk? Finally, in the light of current information, do you consider it necessary to review the time limit imposed on homosexuals?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u31	Mr Minister, my colleagues have already referred to the context. Today, men who have sex with another man are no longer permanently excluded from the donation of blood, but are still excluded for a period of 12 months. Of course, this is a step forward, albeit always discriminatory. However, this provision goes against a community because of its gender affiliation. The Constitutional Court overturned section 8 of the August 2017 Act very partially with regard to the donation of fresh frozen plasma. In the light of current scientific knowledge, do you now envisage legislative changes as a result of this important but too fragmented decision? The Court also highlighted the necessary biennial evaluation. What do you intend to do to that end?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u32	Mr President, I shall begin by answering the specific questions on the criteria and possible changes to them with regard to the qualification of a blood donor. I will then answer Mrs Taquin's questions. The provisions of article 13 of the Act of 5 July 1994 which were cited were introduced by the Act of 11 August 2017 on various provisions in the field of health. They were also the subject of a Royal Implementing Order dated 25 October 2018, which defines the bodies involved in the evaluation of the criteria for temporary exclusion from donation of blood related to the sexual behaviour of donors, as well as the information to be collected in order to carry out this evaluation. A first consultation meeting was held on 10 December 2019 on the basis of an analysis of the 2018 data. The Directorate-General for Health Care of the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment is responsible for carrying out the evaluation on the basis of information collected from the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products (AFMPS), Sciensano, blood establishments and the Higher Council for Health. The above-mentioned Royal Decree describes the information that these different bodies must exchange. The reports of their consultation are available on the FPS Public Health website. A link entitled "Reports, criteria for temporary exclusion, blood donation" contains all relevant information in this regard. The evaluation of the criteria shall be carried out at least every two years. The implementing decree also provides for annual consultation between the various bodies mentioned above in the course of December. This first evaluation has mainly made it possible to make methodological recommendations for data collection and analysis. Indeed, the number of additional donors authorized to donate blood as a result of the 2017 amendment to the Act is still too small to draw scientifically valid conclusions about the impact of the Act. The second consultation meeting is to be held in December 2020. The report of this second consultation may include proposals to amend the exclusion criteria and periods, which, if necessary, will be submitted to the Minister of Public Health. Mrs. Taquin asked me for numbers. There is a range of figures that I can provide, but they only concern the national level. For example, in 2015, there were 282,465 donors; in 2016, 285,005 donors; in 2017, 278,099 donors; in 2018, 282,642 donors; and in 2019, 297,868 donors. There are disaggregations in categories, but it is not possible to quote all the figures here. However, I do not have figures specific to the regions or the provinces. As regards the shortage, the stock of erythrocyte concentrates in blood establishments for the period 2019-2020 is updated weekly on the AFMPS website. According to the data on the number of erythrocyte concentrates distributed monthly for the period 2018-2020, there was no shortage. Ms. Taquin also asked me about the criteria for the one-year exclusion period, and whether there had been a risk analysis. Opinion No. 9291 of the Higher Council of Health recommends taking into account the evolution of the epidemiological situation and systematically assessing these criteria of temporary exclusion and, if necessary, adapting the legislation. The SPF organises an annual consultation in December with the blood establishments, AFMPS, Sciensano and the Higher Council of Health. As I said, the December 2019 evaluation report was published. According to this assessment, the impact of the 12-month deferral in these specific risk categories due to the sexual behaviour of the candidate for donation cannot yet be scientifically substantiated. The number of donors allowed to give blood after 12 months was still too small to draw definitive conclusions. In addition, the review and monitoring of the impact of the deferral of donation in specific risk categories also requires action to improve the reliability of the data. Blood establishments must harmonize in order to arrive at unambiguous definitions for the concepts of "new donor", "refused donor" and "known donor", and must agree on a working method to calculate the number of donors and donations. AFMPS plans to convene a blood platform to develop and standardize these definitions. The VOCID-19 crisis failed to achieve this objective. The annual assessment scheduled for December 2020 will take account of recent developments and data. It will also take the necessary steps to harmonize data from transfusion facilities to AFMPS. Questions were asked about the false statements made by heterosexuals, for example. The Act of 11 August 2017 on various health provisions, published on 28 August 2017, amended the Act of 5 July 1994 on blood and blood derivatives of human origin. This new law specifies the modalities for countering the risks of transfusion-transmissible infection due to the sexual behaviour of the candidate for donation. In addition, the Royal Decree on the collection, preparation, storage and delivery of blood and blood derivatives of human origin provides for an obligation to notify. The AFMPS publishes an annual report on this subject with the analysis of adverse reactions and incidents. Should the time limits imposed on homosexuals be reviewed? The Royal Decree of 25 October 2018 on the evaluation of the temporary exclusion criteria and related exclusion periods for donors concerning sexual behaviour specifies the modalities of this evaluation. In December 2019, the Directorate-General for Health Care organised a consultation with the relevant bodies. A report has been prepared and published. As stipulated in the legislation, these criteria may be amended every two years on the basis of an evaluation carried out by the authorities mentioned above; the next consultation is therefore scheduled for December. Is a future awareness-raising campaign envisaged? Blood donation agencies regularly organize campaigns to encourage donation. These campaigns are also intended to reassure donors. During this pandemic period, the stock was maintained. The need for a future campaign will be discussed with the opinion of the evaluation group to be held in December 2020. Developments related to the health crisis and its consequences will also be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u33	Minister, I will be frank with you: I did not know that this report was available on the FPS Public Health website. I'll go check it out carefully. You talked about a first meeting in 2019 and a second evaluation meeting in December 2020. Here we go! I would like to say this: Belgium is a very small country. A proper scientific assessment requires a sufficient number of people to be taken into account at the level of the analysis. Your reaction on the basis of the 2019 report is to say that the group is still too small to draw definitive conclusions. I suggest that we take into account the data of the countries bordering Europe, if not why not. In France, the Complidon study of 110,000 donors (with the size of France, the donor group is larger for the evaluation) concluded that the risk was not increased, which led to a decrease in the period of abstinence to be observed by homosexuals in order to be able to give their blood. It was reduced from 12 to 4 months. We have to take account of our reality in Belgium and we have to analyse the scientific data because they are the only ones who can impose any decision on this matter. But given the size of the country, I suggest that we integrate it into a broader approach, together with other countries at European level. This will provide us with a clearer scientific view and data that will be easier to interpret.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u34	Minister, this crisis highlights the lack of humanity. Citizens face various problems in several areas. Despite civic acts, health acts or acts of generosity, there is nevertheless discrimination. I'm joining my colleague on the scientific data. In this period of health crisis, I count on you to engage in discussions, studies and analyses with the countries around us that are more advanced than Belgium in this field.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u35	Minister, I'm joining my colleagues. Of course, we have a duty to ensure the safety of blood transfusions and, therefore, to control them. This probably forces us to look at the expertise of our neighbours. We also have a duty to clarify things. Indeed, it is the sexual behaviour that needs to be analyzed, not the sexual orientation of donors. Today, in our legistic armada, we always stigmatize a category of people and mix HIV-positiveness, risky behaviour and homosexuality. It is necessary to legislate so that, tomorrow, only risky behaviour is excluded from blood donations, and in no case sexual orientation. We are a State of freedom, a State that must guarantee the freedom to be, to choose who we are and who we love. I am counting on you, Minister, to move forward in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u36	Minister, the mosquito helicopter plays a special medical role in West Flanders. We can also count on a great deal of support through donations and donations from people, organisations and governments. That proves there's a big support for that mosquito chopper. However, there is still no structural funding. It is also a question of competence. I have spent a long time looking for exactly who was responsible for taking structural funding to heart. Turns out that's the federal government. Your predecessor, Mrs De Block, refused to face that funding, even though she was competent. Minister, will you accept that competence and ensure federal structural funding?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u37	In the government agreement, the government is committed to reforming the law and regulations on urgent medical care so that a patient is transported urgently and immediately to the most appropriate hospital and no longer to the nearest hospital in view of his state of health. That is the starting point for concern in the coalition agreement. In the process of reforming urgent medical assistance, the National Council for Urgent Medical Assistance recently delivered an opinion. In that opinion I read that there is a possible place for a Helicopter Emergency Medical Service, but that the model differs from the current pilot projects as they are. We need to look at that advice and its consequences. An answer to the question whether such a Helicopter Emergency Medical Service will be used in urgent medical care will be part of the work envisaged in the coalition agreement. I hope you will forgive me for this, but that means that I will not say yes or no definitively today, but that this will be looked at further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I understand the door's ajar. I very much welcome that. That's more than what your predecessor, Maggie De Block, did on your jurisdiction. You acknowledge that it is a matter for the federal government and that the matter will continue to be followed up. I'll do the same. I wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u39	Minister, I wanted to discuss with you the law of 22 April 2019 which allows women who have not reached the age of 25 to be reimbursed for their contraceptives. This law was passed just before the last federal election. This law is still too ignored by young girls and women, who do not know the extent of their sexual and reproductive rights. This is why field associations are advocating for an evaluation of this law, in particular to assist federated entities in their awareness-raising work. This assessment would cover the number of applications for reimbursement of the following day's contraceptives and pills since the coming into force of this law, or from any other relevant date, on a monthly basis. A breakdown by age and type of contraceptive could be considered; it would improve contraceptive information but also reduce the number of voluntary terminations of pregnancy. Minister, are you in favour of such an evaluation of the April 22, 2019 Act? If not, what other solution do you recommend to improve contraceptive information? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u40	Madam Member, I am in favour of setting up an evaluation. I will ask INAMI to provide me, as soon as possible, with data on the billing of contraceptive pills and the next day's pill for women under 25 years of age, disaggregated by month, since the entry into force of this law of 22 April 2019. In addition, I would like to inform you that the law of 31 July 2020 has extended the right to additional health care insurance coverage in the cost of contraceptives and the next day's pill to women who benefit from the increased intervention, regardless of their age.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u41	Minister, thank you for this positive and extremely satisfactory response. You're in favour of an evaluation. But I would still like to have more details about a date, about the actors that you are going to include in this evaluation. I think it is essential to be able to carry out this assessment to see whether, precisely, these two recent laws to which you refer have helped to address the problems that are encountered today by these young girls and by these young women, when they are of childbearing age much later than the famous 25 years. I also invite you to explore the question of funding research related to male contraception, because, today, a major problem lies in the fact that contraception mainly affects women. I also invite you to invest more in information, both with men and with women. I believe that this is a role for the Inter-Ministerial Conference, in which the federal and federated entities must play their part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u42	Mr President, I have a related question from Mrs Gijbels on this subject or on doctors in training. Is it being asked, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u43	Minister, if you want, I can turn it into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u44	Yes, perhaps, because, in fact, I have an answer to a question from Mrs Gijbels that is well developed by my administration. I don't know if I really have a specific answer to your question. I can only repeat that in the Joint Committee on Physicians and Hospital Institutions there is consultation on this situation and requests for opinions. Regarding the whole status issue, there is an ongoing process, but I don't know exactly what you want as an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u45	I'm going to put her down in writing. It'll be easier.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u46	That's nice, or I'll improvise in an uninteresting way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u48	Thank you to Mrs. H annoyance and Mr. Minister for finding a solution that is acceptable to everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u49	Mrs Nawal Farih has the floor for her question No. 55009632C on "The telephone consultations."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u50	Mr President, that question has been withdrawn because it is no longer topical. This was communicated to the committee secretariat by e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u51	Indeed, it appears that you had requested the withdrawal of this question. It is therefore withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u52	Mr. President, Minister, given the current data, including the increase in contamination and hospitalization, many medical and surgical appointments are postponed. A few days ago, experts indicated that the current situation differed from the epidemic peak observed in March and April, in the sense that hospitals would have more non-COVID patients in their hospital than they would maintain. On the other hand, you know that the danger of failure to follow proven or potentially proven heavy pathologies is very high and has serious consequences. Health professionals had already drawn our attention to this six months ago. What is the current situation regarding the reception of non-COVID patients in our hospitals? What evaluation is made of hospital consultations, examinations and care outside of VOCID? On the basis of what kind of surveillance? What other solutions are in place to follow up on these examinations and treatments in other medical infrastructures for the protection of patients, particularly in the face of chronic or heavy and nascent conditions? Finally, does the hospital allocation plan also concern non-COVID patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u53	Mrs Taquin, your question is important – just like the others – and is particularly topical. Unfortunately, as far as surveillance is concerned, I must tell you that, for the time being, we have no idea what activities are taking place in hospitals in real time. We have statistics on the capacity used or the number of beds in intensive care, but we are not in a position to track activities in real time. These data come to us via the minimum hospital summary, depending on the legal deadlines that hospitals must comply with. Due to the epidemiological evolution and the increasing number of VOCID patients requiring hospitalization, it has become necessary to postpone regular care to ensure that hospital capacity is not exceeded. The Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee of the FPS Public Health, which is composed of representatives of all authorities, the Ministry of Defence, hospital dome organizations, as well as experts, monitors the situation on a daily basis and has developed a capacity plan for hospitals that includes different phases depending on the evolution of the epidemic. On 28 October, the Committee sent a letter to hospitals with the request to move to phase 2B from 2 November with 60% of the approved ICU capacity reserved for VOCID-19 patients and six times that number for VOCID-19 patients on normalized, non-ICU beds and the additional opening of a number of ICU beds equal to 40% of the approved ICU beds, thus an additional capacity. In addition, an allocation plan with patient transfers between hospitals should ensure the quality of care for VOCID and non-COVID patients and that the burden of care and pressure on staff and institutions are distributed. It is inherent in extending capacity to this phase which has a serious impact on all non-emergency regular care. This means that hospitals gradually eliminate the elective program by providing urgent and necessary care according to the following ranking: 1. intensive care activities; 2. conventional hospitalizations that do not involve intensive care; 3. day hospital surgical activities not involving intensive care; 4. non-surgical activities in day hospital; 5. consultations and home-based hospitalization activities and mobile teams. It must be clear that all necessary and urgent consultations, reviews and interventions must continue. All necessary ongoing therapies or rehabilitations will also be continued. VOCID and non-COVID circuits in hospitals are therefore strictly separated. Patients should be confident of their safety and not defer their own treatment or private consultation. The attending physician plays a major role in this area. For further consultations, teleconsultations may also be used where possible, so that the patient does not have to go to the hospital. The impact of postponing non-emergency care can only be assessed over time based on available data. The objective remains not to find itself in a situation where care needs to be postponed and this can only be achieved through the broad application of preventive measures taken in the context of the pandemic in the population. I think we agree that this is a very worrying situation for both waiting patients and waiting physicians. The only solution, of course, is to improve the situation at the level of the epidemic. We will follow this closely but we do not have real-time data.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u54	Minister, thank you for the answers you have provided. I hear we don't have real-time monitoring. I can understand that. I am reassured to hear you say - as you already said - that you are very attentive to this problem. The stakes are huge. At a time when we are announcing that we want to avoid this third wave at all costs, the fourth, fifth or sixth wave should not be affected by patients who are non-COVID but who have not been cared for. I therefore trust you for the follow-up and attention to be given to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u55	Question No 55009846C by Mrs Merckx is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u56	Minister, in Belgium, the tattooing profession seems to be very little regulated. Indeed, the only conditions for access to this profession are to have received a 20-hour training on hygiene measures, in accordance with the Order of 25 November 2005, and to hold a VAT number. Unlike pedicure or even hairdresser, there is no recognized and certifying vocational training for the tattooing profession. A person who plans to become a tattooer must therefore learn his or her profession on the job from another tattooer. The tattooer's job is to inject ink into the second layer of skin, under the dermis, using various tools such as needles. It is therefore not an act to be taken lightly. If the medical history of the future tattoo is not taken into account, some allergic reactions may have adverse and irreversible effects on the tattoo's skin. As a result, some tattooers recognized for their good work are confronted daily with customers who come to their homes to repair the error of some inexperienced colleagues. However, this kind of error does not repair itself as if a drawing was chewed on a sheet of paper and often leaves indelible traces. Minister, in view of the potential health consequences of such acts, is there no need to strengthen the regulation of this profession? Have any discussions taken place in this context with the federated entities? As far as I am concerned, I have had several exchanges with tattooers fully aware of the difficulty of the problem. They are so aware that they have the impression that these few inexperienced tattooers, in a minority, it is true, risk to cast reproach on the whole profession and on all those who work irreproachably every day. They would therefore be seeking a readjustment or strengthening of existing regulations. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u57	As you probably know, Belgium was one of the first countries to introduce specific regulations on tattoos and piercings. The Royal Decree of 25 November 2005 already contains criteria for training, hygiene and infrastructure. Client information and consent requirements are provided. You know that the training concerns hygiene, the equipment to be used, the sterilization procedures, the work procedures, the maintenance of the premises and finally the products and inks to be used. The Royal Decree of 2005 certainly deserves an update. The extent of tattoos has changed in the meantime as well as the risks of unreliable products and inks. The reflection time for a tattoo had to be more strictly regulated. The Higher Council of Health is the competent advisory body and has already published several documents on this subject. It seems to me useful to request an updated global opinion in order to prepare the necessary amendments to the Royal Decree of 25 November 2005.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u58	Mr Minister, this royal decree of 25 November 2005 takes up a whole series of beacons and elements, but an update seems essential to me. I hear your willingness to move forward in this direction and I will not fail to follow this matter closely, even if I feel that it is not moving forward fast enough. In any case, I will remain informed in order to respond to a request from the sector, as I have told you. Indeed, these women and men who work irreproachably have the impression that some people cast discredit and reproach on the entire profession. These people are asking for stricter regulations. We need to be able to hear this call from these real professionals and provide them with a concrete response.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u59	Mr. President, Minister, hypnosis is taking a growing part in our health care. In an August 2020 opinion, the Higher Council of Health recalled that the use of hypnosis can facilitate or reinforce the effect of many forms of therapeutic interventions. It is also effective in the management of acute and chronic pain, as it may have an impact on the reduction of anxiety in medical treatments. In this opinion, the Conseil Supérieur de la Santé also considers that hypnosis should be entrusted only to health professionals and therefore recommends the implementation of a legal and regulatory framework based on the White Paper on the use of hypnosis in France (2019) covering, inter alia, the title, the directory of professionals, the advertisements, an effective monitoring body, the introduction of hypnosis in the curriculum of the health professions. In addition, in the field of research, the Higher Council of Health calls for the strengthening of scientific research in order to validate the therapeutic value of hypnosis and thus overcome methodological difficulties in the observation of hypnosis. Minister, have your services been aware of this advice from the Superior Council of Health? If so, will a legal framework be established under this legislature in this area, taking into account the recommendations made by the Higher Health Council? How do you intend to encourage scientific research in the field of hypnosis?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u60	We have indeed taken note of the report of the Higher Health Council on the use of hypnosis. This report is well-founded and honest. Thus, methodological difficulties in proving effectiveness are highlighted, but positive experiences are also reported, including in the management of acute and chronic pain and in the reduction of anxiety. The Council highlights risks such as psychotherapy, for example, the patient's exposure to his or her vulnerabilities. Hypnosis can only be used in the therapist's area of competence, in order to make a good diagnosis and to consider the possibilities of a hypnotic approach in order to ensure quality follow-up. Any risk of delay in accessing appropriate care should be avoided. The informed consent of the patient is obviously paramount. The use of hypnosis should therefore be limited to health professionals in the area of expertise of each, which is already legally provided for under the definition of illegal practice of medicine. The multidisciplinary team approach offers additional quality guarantees and allows for further research. Research and developments in the field will indicate whether further, more detailed legislative initiatives are needed. The prohibition of hypnosis in performance, provided for by a law of 1892, must of course be maintained and the modernization of this old legislation is conceivable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u61	Thank you Minister for your answers, which are ultimately in line with the recommendations made by the Higher Council of Health. I am pleased to hear that you are concerned to protect patients from practices that may be extremely positive in the case of certain treatments, but that may also be dangerous. I am pleased to hear from you about the need to inform patients about the ins and outs of this practice, the side effects and the risks. Therefore, it is necessary to really frame this practice at best. I also hear that you are giving Parliament the opportunity to follow up on this issue and possibly find the best way to follow up on these recommendations. That's what we'll do. I thank you, in any case, for your rather reassuring answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u62	Mr President, hadrontherapy is a radiotherapy technique that allows cancer cells to irradiate very precisely and thus limit the impact on the surrounding healthy tissues. This irradiation can be done either with protons (proton therapy) or with other charged particles such as carbon ions (carbon therapy). Compulsory health care insurance is financially involved in the cost of treatment by hadrontherapy for patients who meet strictly defined inclusion criteria. This is a limited list of eligible tumours as well as certain pre-established conditions. Only curative treatments are taken into account. The patient should maintain a good general condition, according to the WHO classification. He must not present other comorbidities limiting his life expectancy. This must be a first attempt at irradiation, etc. Following a multidisciplinary oncological consultation and after checking that the patient is in good condition for reimbursement, the reference radiotherapy centre sends a complete application file to INAMI. If the latter makes a positive decision to intervene in the costs of treatment, the radiotherapy centre shall coordinate the referral of the patient to the Hadrontherapy Centre where the treatment will take place, either in Belgium or abroad. INAMI pays directly for the Hadrontherapy Center. Where treatment takes place abroad, the beneficiary may be reimbursed for any travel and accommodation expenses. For its part, the radiotherapy centre referred to shall receive an allowance for the coordination of the file. In Belgium, there is currently only one hadrontherapy centre. It has been operational since July 2020. This is the Particulate Proton Centre at UZ Leuven. Currently, no green light has been given for the construction of a second hadrontherapy centre in Belgium. More information can be found on the INAMI website. By visiting this site, you can read that the agreement with the Hadrontherapy Centres, in accordance with the Royal Decree laying down the conditions under which the Insurance Committee may conclude agreements for the intervention in the cost of treatment with hadrontherapy, has, in principle, ceased to be in force on 30 September 2020. A procedure is therefore currently under way to issue a new royal decree which will extend the agreement from 1 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u63	Mr. Minister, you mentioned the benefits of proton therapy, including undoubtedly the slightest collateral damage; it limits exposure to radiation from healthy tissues. It's fundamental for younger patients. If today we have this opportunity to be reimbursed for these treatments abroad, we must make every effort to ensure that these treatments can, from the moment they are recognized, be delivered close to the patient's home so as not to further complicate these painful moments morally and physically, and to support these innovative projects that they are in Leuven today and, tomorrow, I hope, in Charleroi.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u64	Mr Minister, under normal circumstances, thousands of adults and children work weekly on artificial turf fields scattered with rubber pellets throughout Belgium, despite evidence that they contain a mass of toxic substances that are potentially carcinogenic. Both toxicologists and independent national environmental and health authorities have been preaching the principle of caution for a long time and explicitly asking for the rubber pellets to be replaced because there are sufficient safe alternatives. In August 2018, RIVM, the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment in the Netherlands, asked ECHA, the European Chemicals Agency, to introduce a stricter standard for carcinogenic substances in rubber granulates to better protect footballers and children. The ECHA again advised people who play on artificial grass with rubber granulate to wash their hands, clean wounds and change their clothes before they go home. Mr Minister, would you consider definitively banning the use of rubber granulate for artificial turf fields for health reasons? Do you intend to contact the Flemish, Walloon and Brussels Ministers of Sport and with enlargement also those of Health and the Environment, in order to find a solution together?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u65	Mr President, I have to admit to my shame that I have not received any advice from my administration on this question. I tried to get them to say it anyway. I think this is a serious question, for example, because of the precedents abroad and the advice of ECHA. These state that users should be careful. I suggest that I examine how best to get an opinion on this quickly. I probably need to get in touch with my colleagues, but I obviously need to get scientific advice first. Unfortunately, I haven't made any further work out of this. I will try to get a good opinion on this as soon as possible and then make the necessary contacts. Can you put this question to me again in the foreseeable future? It might be a good thing that you first verify whether there is any relevant advice coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u66	Minister, your answer does not, in itself, express much, but gives a great deal of hope. I used to be a Flemish representative and for a long time I advocated banning those artificial grass fields that have been sprinkled with SBR rubber granulate. This was, on the one hand, because of the health effects, but also because of the environmental aspect that comes into play. I am still surprised that worn-out tyres, which are regarded as heavy toxic waste, suddenly become recycled material if they are shredded. A lot of children are allowed to exercise on them, and if these rubber pellets have lost their resilience, they immediately become heavily toxic waste again. That raises questions. Getting advice would be very good. In particular, there is a need for independent research because there is far too little genuinely independent research. Can you promise me that you'd like multiple investigations? Independent advice would have an absolute added value in order to clarify this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u67	Mrs Matz, the Royal Decree of 21 April 2007 laying down safety standards and other standards for automatic external defibrillators used in resuscitation does not require the installation of defibrillators in buildings. The requirement for evacuation plans is reflected in several regulations: the RGPT, the Royal Decree of 7 July 1994 laying down basic standards for fire and explosion prevention to be met by buildings, local police regulations and housing decrees. Although I think the marking of defibrillators on the plans is useful, I am not competent for the named regulations. The central file listing all the defibrillators registered in Belgium is available on the Public Health FPS website. Is he up to date? The SPF itself considers that it does not. Although defibrillator registration is mandatory, control and control have never been provided. It is therefore the good will of the defibrillator owners to keep the register up to date. But a defibrillator alone doesn't save a life. We need someone who can use it in an emergency. We're talking about the medical first response. An independent scientific study of this concept is planned in 2021. This scientific assessment will allow us to position ourselves in terms of needs (concept, feasibility, possible obstacles), which will allow us to consider the adequacy of such a concept with the system of emergency medical aid, as it is now in force in Belgium, in order to incorporate it into the law of 8 July 1964 governing urgent medical aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u68	Mr President, I should like to point out that I had first addressed the question to Mrs Verlinden, but it was the services that have shifted the issue to the Health Commission and therefore the Minister of Health. I thank the minister for his response. I understand that there are competences that are rather regional in nature, especially in terms of housing, etc. It remains that the cadastre, the register, the central file is, on the other hand, federal. Even the CPS finds that there are gaps. Of course, the defibrillator is not self-usable. It takes someone who knows how to handle it, but it seems essential to have a complete cadastre so that people who can handle these devices can locate them and dispose of them. An initiative at this level may be needed to encourage the various owners to come forward more quickly about the presence of these defibrillators.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u69	Mr President, you will allow me to ask this question, for particular reasons that many of my colleagues know. Minister, I asked your predecessor a year ago about the non-reimbursement of Aimovig, a medicine that treats particularly painful migraines, and whose effectiveness has been demonstrated in some patients, and even in many patients, but whose cost remains very high – from 500 to 1,000 euros per month – because no agreement could be reached with the pharmaceutical company that manufactures the medicine. Ms De Block replied that for the first case in 2018 for Aimovig 70 mg: "The CRM analysis showed that the ratio of costs to expected benefits was not favourable, with a clearly high per patient price for health insurance. There were also a number of uncertainties about this medicine, such as its added value in the target population proposed by Novartis". In 2019, the company had submitted a new dossier to the Commission de réimbursement des Medicinal Products pour l'Aimovig dosé à 140 mg. The minister had stated that "as long as the file is being processed, I cannot take notice of it. I fully understand the migraines who have founded all their hopes for healing on this medicine. However, the only thing I can do is wait for a new opinion." More broadly, research on migraine treatments has been very encouraging in recent years and offers hope for the many patients who suffer from this particularly disabling disease which can have a very heavy impact on family and work life. Patients' collectives and the Headache Research Unit at the University of Liège asked you, in a letter dated 14 November, about the same subject. Minister, could you tell us what is the status of the Aimovig 140 mg rebate? Have records been introduced for other similar monoclonal antibody-based medicines marketed by other firms? If so, what is the status of these files? Have repayment decisions been made? More generally, have you defined your intentions for measures to improve the lives of these patients (reimbursement of treatments, support for work, etc.)( )?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u70	Mr Minister, my colleague has brilliantly and perfectly summarized the state of affairs which is more than worrying for so many men and women, who are now suffering from atrocious migraines. The societal cost of migraine is estimated at €985 million per year. In addition, 90% of people with migraines report that they are unable to work or function when they experience a migraine episode. In Belgium alone, this represents 1 650 000 days of work lost each year. Along with the usual painkillers, unfortunately there are treatments that do not work, but also others that help to remedy these pains, such as Aimovig. As Mrs Matz said, there is the question of the treatment of this treatment, which has demonstrated its effectiveness at European level and which was already recognised in 2018. The Aimovig treatment has few side effects, but its cost varies between 500 and 1,000 euros per month, making it difficult for many people who actually need it. Has the firm sent a new refund application to the Commission de réimbursement des Medicinal Products (CRM) for Aimovig? What other preventive treatments are currently being reimbursed for migraine management? If the availability of these preventive treatments is not guaranteed for people with migraines, what specific measures are envisaged to help these people have a social life, a working life or, simply, a life?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u71	Mr President, Mrs Matz, I shall start by recapitulating a few facts. In September 2018, Novartis submitted a dossier to CRM for admission to the Aimovig 70 mg reimbursement. Following the MRC's assessment of the application, the possibility of concluding an agreement between INAMI and Novartis for the temporary inclusion of the medicinal product in the list of proprietary medicinal products was examined. At the end of the negotiations, the responsible working group issued a negative opinion on the admission to reimbursement of Aimovig 70 mg. Based on the CRM analysis, it was found that the cost for patient health insurance was very high and that there were several major uncertainties related to this medicine, in particular as regards the potential budgetary impact and the added value of the medicine to the target population proposed by the firm. The Working Group considered that the budget compensation proposed by the company was insufficient in view of the above-mentioned elements. In March 2019, Novartis submitted a dossier to CRM for the refund of Aimovig at the 140 mg dose. Negotiations were also initiated with the firm on this matter, but the working group reached the same conclusion and again gave a negative opinion. At the end of November 2019, Novartis submitted a new dossier to CRM for Aimovig for both 70 mg and 140 mg. As this case is still being processed, I am not in a position to provide more information about this procedure. This could jeopardize the smooth operation of the reimbursement procedure. This applies not only to Aimovig's application for reimbursement, but also to all cases for which the refund procedure is under way. At the end of October 2019, Teva Pharma Belgium filed an application with CRM for the drug specialty Ajovy. Like Aimovig, this specialty belongs to the class of CGRP inhibitors and can also be used to treat migraine. As this case is still under way, I am not in a position to provide more information on the procedure. In early March 2020, a third firm, Eli Lilly Benelux, applied to CRM for the pharmaceutical specialty Emgality. Like Aimovig and Ajovy, this specialty belongs to the class of CGRP inhibitors. Like the other two files, it's under way and I can't provide you with more details. Any changes to the list of reimbursable proprietary medicinal products will be published in the Belgian Monitor and on the INAMI website. Apart from conventional preventive treatments that have been reimbursed for at least 10 years, such as topiramate, valproic acid and propanolol, botox has now been reimbursed for patients with chronic migraines since March 1, 2019. I understand that you and many patients are waiting, but it is important that the procedures be followed properly. They examine both the therapeutic value and place in the therapeutic arsenal as well as the cost, effectiveness and impact on the health care budget. Pending a new opinion, I can inform you that two emergency medical programmes are under way with AFMPS for one of these new anti-migrants, which some Belgian patients already have access to.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u72	Minister, surely inform us, please us, much less. I do not often invoke this quality, but as a patient suffering, not migraines, but clusterheadache, I would like to insist that one can have a global view of these extremely disabling diseases. I have agreed to speak for the patient groups on this issue. I told them that this pain might be useful for something. I am fortunate to be in Parliament and to be able to convey concerns. I understand that you are not involved in any ongoing proceedings. I am always surprised: of course, these drugs cost money, but they would also bring a lot of money. My colleague has quantified the cost of migraines to society. It's colossal! The aim of this programme is to refine the conditions under which Aimovig can be used. It's not about having a headache. It is about being migraine, several days a month, when several treatments failed. I think that, of course, the cost must be assessed against a general budget, but we must also look at the costs to society. These are colossal, as they have been reminded. The breakdown of family and professional life is also to be considered. I insist that you also respond to the inquiry you received on November 14 from all these groups of patients who suffer from headaches in the general sense of the term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u73	Mr Minister, I believe that my colleague, through her speech, really sums up the important issue of this issue. You mentioned it earlier: yes, the cost per patient is certainly very high, but there is a significant damage, a substantial societal, economic and indirect cost that cannot be overlooked today. Furthermore, this is not a choice of access to a luxury product by patients. No, for many, this is the only hope at the moment of getting somewhat relieved of chronic disabling pain. It is the hope of having a normal, pleasant life and of not being always in fear of the next migraine and the fight against it. Since it is neither a choice nor a luxury and since it is our duty to ensure everyone's access to health care, in terms of cost, we must agree that this access is not possible for some. I urge you to move forward in the direction of a positive response and to make every effort to enable those who are waiting today to have a response to a truly pressing need tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u74	Mr Minister, at the moment the doctors-specialists in training who are working as a certified basic doctor in hospitals and who are undergoing further training lasting four to six years do not have statutory conditions of employment and do not work under a collective agreement. Hospitals or medical companies actually choose freely the conditions, how much they pay and how much leave they grant. Your predecessor, Mrs De Block, asked the National Joint Committee on Doctors Hospitals to draw up an opinion on a central training agreement setting out a number of conditions. There are signs that this committee cannot reach consensus, although the problem has been known for a long time. Will you reconfirm your predecessor's request for advice and impose a specific deadline on the National Joint Committee on Doctors Hospitals? In the absence of an opinion, will you take the initiative to establish minimum working conditions yourself?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u75	For doctors-specialists in training there is a budget to compensate them for the extra benefits they have provided during the covide epidemic. This budget is part of the advances already received by hospitals in order to avoid liquidity problems and, on the other hand, in the context of the final advances paid in the light of the additional compensation granted to hospitals for the crisis period. The Royal Decree laying down the detailed rules for granting exceptional federal financial support to hospitals in the context of the epidemic was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 12 November 2020. In addition to a fee for the additional services, the ASOs receive 250 euros per month. In addition, on 3 November, I asked the Federal Hospital Services Council for an urgent opinion on the use of an additional maximum budget of EUR 105 million to support healthcare professionals who have to stop their normal activities because of the new division of labour in the fight against COOVID-19. I also said that there should be explicit attention for the ASOs. In relation to the general practitioners in training, I refer to the meeting of 12 October 2020 of the National Committee on Doctors' Funds. Everyone agrees that for the HAIOs the same effort must be made as for the ASOs. The HAIOs have contributed more than their share, by doing extra shifts, waiting and overtime or replacing sick colleagues. The RIZIV is currently looking at solutions to accommodate the HAIOs. You're asking me what else I'm gonna do. It's not the first time you've asked. You know that a working group within the National Joint Committee on Medicine and Hospitals is working on this. It has the power to conclude collective agreements, a bit similar to national collective agreements. The committee has given itself until the end of the year to successfully conclude the negotiations. I will follow up the dossier very closely and try to facilitate the conclusion of a collective agreement. What if doctors-specialists in their training cannot meet the federal recognition criteria? Experience gained during the activities for Covid-19 patients is useful experience and can often be considered as a training activity. The continuity of training is therefore not interrupted by definition and the regulation allows for a certain degree of flexibility during the training course, for example in the form of specific traineeships or by considering the experience as part of the competences to be obtained. It is clear that the quality and safety of care in training for patients and candidates must always be guaranteed. The competence for the follow-up of the training process and the internship plans lies with the federated entities, in particular with the recognition committees. The final competences will eventually have to be achieved in order to be able to award a full professional qualification to the candidates. New technologies offer opportunities for easier theoretical training and practical experience can be overtaken by delayed non-covid pathologies after the crisis. A strict organization of the internships can compensate a lot after the crisis. The accreditation committees will therefore most likely be able to apply a certain degree of flexibility. This will, of course, also vary from one medical discipline to another. In the case of individual problems, a consultation between the candidate trainee, the coordinating trainee and the recognition committee can solve a lot. If the recognition committees in the candidate countries really identify structural problems, they will be examined by the administration. Finally, I note that Royal Decree No. 29 of 5 June 2020 under certain conditions, including achieving final competences, the clinical activity performed between 1 March and 31 December 2020 assimilates with part of the internship.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u76	Minister, it was a very complete answer, so complete that you answered two questions at the same time. I think my question No. This has also been discussed, Mr President. I understand that you are well aware of the problem, Minister, and that you will commit yourself, among other things, to achieving the collective agreement, so I will certainly follow that up in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u77	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Bertels's 55010216C lapses as he has left us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u78	Mr President, Minister, I submitted this question in response to the 2018-2019 evaluation report proposed by the Federal Audit and Evaluation Committee Euthanasia. In her report, that committee raises a question that has been asked several times, namely a question about the digitisation of the registration document. It is now becoming very urgent to have a digital registration document, as the evaluation committee will move to the Galilei building, where the paperless committee will work. Working with a digital registration document is therefore a necessity. Mr Minister, are you prepared to develop and implement a digital registration document together with the Minister of Justice? Will digitisation have an impact on the confidentiality of part 1, a confidential part, of the euthanasia registration document? How can this be solved in the event of digitalisation? I would also like to refer to the text of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u79	The committee's main question is the demand for an electronic and a secure registration document. In the committee's report we read that the current arrangements for evaluating dossiers are very cumbersome. Think of the handwritten answers, which are sometimes difficult to unravel, the mistakes associated with the current administrative approach and so on. This creates an additional workload for the secretariat and the committee. It is even the case that the first part, which is normally only opened after the evaluation, should be opened in advance because it is considered necessary to obtain more information. The current acceleration and digitisation of all kinds of other tools in society also contributes to the need to switch to an electronic operation, including, of course, a safe environment, given that this is very sensitive information and we also need to protect part 1 of the document, so that it is accessible only after the evaluation. We will continue to calculate the cost of this digitization. A first estimate says it's a 126,000 euro project. We will see if we can include this in the ICT credits of the Public Health Office as far as we are concerned, together with the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u80	Thank you, Minister. Apparently, it's a big investment. I am nevertheless pleased that you support the demand for digitalisation and that you stress that this must be done in a safe manner. We must be able to guarantee confidentiality at all times. What I also think is an important element is that digital registration documents will allow for the processing of additional statistical data from the documents. This can undoubtedly add value to the evaluation committee's biennial reports.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u81	Minister, I have asked this question several times in the context of the discussion of the policy paper. You referred me to your colleagues then, but I will try again. In the discussion with your colleagues, it has been repeatedly said that there are more concrete steps to regionalisation for one competence than for the other. Do you see any concrete steps towards regionalisation of health care from your jurisdiction in this legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u82	The coalition agreement contains the ambition to strive in the coming years, in cooperation with the Communities and the Regions, for homogeneous powers and greater efficiency, including in health care. Under the leadership of my colleagues Annelies Verlinden and David Clarinval, a broad democratic debate involving citizens, civil society and the academic world, and a dialogue among political representatives, will be launched. The government agreement also states that they will draw up proposals on health care. I will, of course, be part of that, but it is not for me to go ahead.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u83	Minister, that is the same answer as last time. So you don't put time on it in this legislature? Then I'll draw the same conclusion as last time. I will, of course, continue to follow up on the matter. I have noted that the broad democratic debate will also be held with politicians. I look forward to taking part in the debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u84	Mr President, Minister, this is a topic that has already come back a few times and which we have already asked questions about in the context of the lockdown and restrictions on non-medical contact professions. The foot caretakers continue to worry. Indeed, the Ministerial Decision of 1 November 2020 or the FAQ of 2 November 2020 did not mention the Joint Committees to which they may belong. My question is very specific. Can you specify whether foot care providers covered by the Joint Committee 314, which includes NACE codes 96.022 or 86.905, may also carry out the operations covered by medical pedicure or specialised foot care? Can you also clarify what is understood by the term'medical pedicure' or'specialised foot care'?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u85	Mrs Gijbels, there are three professions described in foot care at the moment. Firstly, there is the profession of podologist, a recognized paramedical healthcare profession. The podologist investigates and treats patients with conditions at the foot. The exercise of certain acts or benefits is legally recognised by Royal Decree of 7 March 2016. The podologist is responsible for providing advice and education and for various podological research and treatment methods. These concerns remain guaranteed, like other paramedical health care services, and are currently allowed during the pandemic. Secondly, the specialist foot care professional or medical pedicure is not or has not yet been recognised in Belgium and is not regulated as a protected paramedical profession. The specialist foot care provider provides a professional basic foot care, supplemented by skin and nail care. For this purpose, a professional profile was established in 2009. The purpose of the treatments is to eliminate pain and discomfort associated with skin and nail disorders. The specialist foot caretaker is currently categorized under the Joint Committee 314. This is therefore not a health care profession and is subject to the legislation of the FPS Economy. The specialised foot care does go beyond just the aesthetic hatch and may relate to essential foot care. People think of diabetics in particular. For the above reasons, these services are now permitted by the FPS Economy despite the circulation of the virus. Thirdly, there is the aesthetic, non-medical pedicure, performed by a beauty specialist who focuses on aesthetics and wellness. Such a pedicure, which merely poses the aesthetic aspect of foot care, is subject to the legislation and guidelines of the FPS Economy and is therefore currently excluded. I refer to the ministerial decision we have taken. As previously advised by our advisory bodies, the Federal Council for the Paramedics and the Technical Commission for Paramedics, in their advice TCPB of February 2018 and advice FRPB of February 2018, action should be taken on the paramedical recognition of specialised foot care. In this way, qualified and qualified foot caregivers can work side by side with podologists and thus they can also strengthen each other. This problem is currently the subject of discussions in the Footcare Working Party at the Federal Council for the Paramedical Occupations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u86	Minister, the foot caretakers will be pleased that their specific joint committee has been mentioned. Now they can be more comfortable. I am indeed looking forward to the future when work will be done on the recognition of the specialist foot caregivers. We will have to give a clear definition of what medical pedicure and specialised foot care are.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u87	Mr President, I had tabled a similar question under item 37. I do not know why it is not linked to this question, but now you can delete it from the list. After all, I got the answer. It is a question of Question No 1, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u88	Minister, I know that my question concerns many powers, not only at federal level but also at the level of the Länder. According to the World Health Organisation, one person in six over sixty years of age worldwide is abused, emotionally, physically, sexually, financially or even unintentionally by giving them the wrong care. The approach is, as has been said, a cross-disciplinary approach, and in Belgium there are no real figures on this issue either. The covid crisis and the associated lockdowns have put this problem back at the centre of interest. By the way, Unia has already made recommendations on this in the past. Recently, the KCE has conducted a wide-ranging survey on the theme of elder abuse The Knowledge Centre sets the issue very clearly on the agenda and advises the government to draw up a national and/or regional plan. The aim is to better detect and tackle the abuse. The Centre calls for training of the care staff, the police and the assistance and asks whether the roadmap with very specific recommendations it has drawn up can be disseminated to professionals. Our colleagues in the Flemish Parliament are advocating an elderly law commissioner, but I wanted to raise the issue at this level as well. Perhaps I should also ask Mrs Schlitz a question about it. Minister, will this report be discussed within the government? Will it be dealt with at inter-ministerial conferences if necessary? Will initiatives be taken to better detect and address the problem? What initiatives can we expect? Of course, the covid crisis is the main reason for this question, but the KCE study goes much further. The problem can arise in many different areas, in health care institutions, in hospitals and in the family. We have talked about this problem several times. Now there is a solid study with sound recommendations. We might be able to work with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u89	Mr President, Mrs Jiroflée, this is indeed an important issue and the report before us seems to me to be both interesting and important. However, I will reply fairly carefully, given the division of powers. The study by the KCE on the treatment and abuse of the elderly in Belgium indicates that this competence lies mainly with the Communities and the Regions. When it comes to care for the elderly, the competence lies even entirely with the Communities and the Regions. The national action plan to combat any form of gender-based violence, of course also a link, is also the result of close cooperation between the federal government, the Regions and the Communities on a coordinated approach to any form of gender-based violence, but that national action plan also includes measures for vulnerable groups, including older people. I think it might indeed be appropriate for you to address my colleague, the Secretary of State for Gender Equality, Equal Opportunities and Diversity, as I think you have a very precise point of reference from her regarding the federal action. As far as training is concerned, there have been regular training cycles for hospital care professionals on behalf of the Minister of Health since 2009 for the detection, treatment and follow-up of victims of intra-family and sexual violence. The structure of these training courses is broader than the target group of older people, but parental abuse is also addressed, albeit indirectly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u90	Minister, you confirm that perhaps we should hang the cart on the action plan on gender-based violence. I will therefore ask the Secretary of State about this. In recent years, I have raised this issue more often. It is so scattered across different powers and levels that it is sometimes very difficult to grasp. That is why, as a result of the study that has been carried out, I wanted to make another attempt. In any case, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u91	Mrs Farih, your question concerns data collection in the area of puncture, cutting, bite and spatter wounds. Indeed, an important under-reporting must be established for each data collection around this subject. A mandatory anonymous reporting via the medical director or the company doctor is necessary to register this efficiently. A matching legislative framework is not yet in place, but in the meantime, Sciensano and the FOD WASO can explore the option of designing such a registration system. No concrete timelines have been set so far. Until now, there was informal consultation between the FOD WASO and Sciensano. I will take the Care Infections and Antibiotic Resistance Department of Sciensano to see how this can be further developed. In anticipation, with Sciensano, we are looking at the option of reopening the EpiNet platform to process the data. The existing platforms at Sciensano, Epistat and healthdata.be are expanded and adapted daily to meet medical data needs. This will harmonise any new or renewed registration. It shall aim at real-time open data recording and reporting of all data that can ensure and speed up the maintenance and improvement of the care system.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u92	Mr Minister, I asked this question because the Belgian nurses and medical lab workers are very often affected by these cuts. There really is an under-registration of this. It's not even reported anymore because they know it's not registered. In order to ensure the safety of the healthcare sector, it is important to restart the registration that was in place before 2010. Hopefully this will be followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u93	Mr Minister, Test Purchasing recently conducted an investigation which shows that the truth is often being taken into account in the promotion of cannabidiol (CBD) in various commercial matters. Also on Facebook and other web pages, several messages have appeared in recent months in which CBD was promoted against COVID-19. It is claimed to be a resistance-enhancing agent, which would also work against pain, stress and inflammation and even improve lung capacity. Test Purchase concluded that approximately 90% of the sales outlets examined attribute many healing properties to CBD, for which there is insufficient or even no scientific evidence. In addition, side effects or the risks associated with their long-term use are often ignored and interactions with medicinal products are rarely warned. Test Purchasing calls on the government to take appropriate action against these practices, because they can, of course, pose a certain danger to our public health. What will you do to stop such misleading practices and regulate the market? Is there any European consultation on this with a view to establishing a European reference framework? Who is allowed to sell CBD products? What conditions apply here? Do we have a look at the sales points of CBD products? Is there a check on the sale of CBD products? If not, why not and how do we possibly plan to do so? Is there a check on advice that provides outlets for CBD products? If not, why not and how do we possibly plan to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u94	Mr Minister, I will not repeat everything Mrs Gijbels said, but I just want to add something else. Test Purchase did specific research at 20 webshops and 20 physical stores. Of the 40 outlets, 35 were guilty of health claims on CBD. I would also like to refer to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 19 November which confirms that European legislation as it stands is not appropriate to regulate the specific case of CBD. The consumer organisation Test Purchase therefore requires a new European reference framework. In addition to the questions that Mrs Gijbels has already asked, I would like to ask you in general what your intentions are in that regard. Are we also looking at the European level? Will Belgium raise the issue at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u95	Mr President, Mrs Jiroflée, you asked me if I have taken note of the study and recommendations of Test Purchase. The answer is yes. You also asked me about my intentions. CBD cannot currently be marketed as a food supplement because it is considered a novel food, for which no safety assessment has yet been carried out. However, it may be placed on the market as a herbal product intended for smoking, under the conditions of the Royal Decree of 5 February 2016 on the manufacture and marketing of tobacco products. In addition, CBD can be delivered to the pharmacy for medical purposes, based on a prescription for a majestic preparation. For this purpose, the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products has drawn up a letter clarifying the context. You will find them on the website of the FAGG. It's the letter No. 648. In addition, CBD cannot be offered for human consumption. Also, the indication of therapeutic indications cannot and makes the product a non-bound medicinal product. There are checks on websites, leaflets, etc. in this context. Oral claims and opinions and private messages on social media in closed groups are very difficult to identify, check or prove. Mystery shopping, as Test Purchase does, is not feasible as part of the inspection services. Several studies have already been carried out and followed up by the FAGG. In 2018, it covered seven files, in 2019 about 43 files and in 2020 up to and including August, five files. There is currently a debate at European or international level on the status of CBD at the level of the United Nations, particularly in the International Narcotics Control Board. That discussion has not led to a conclusion so far, but we naturally follow it up through the FAGG. I think I have answered all the questions, including those of Mrs Gijbels who asked if there was a registration of outlets. No, there is no registration, but the FAGG must take the necessary measures in case of irregularities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u96	Thank you, Minister. From your answer, there is still some work to be done. The practice seems widespread: you can get it very easily and it is very difficult to check what advice is given. It is important to add a certain level of registration or certain conditions to this, so that we can get a look at the situation and keep it under control. It's a bit of a slippery wreck. Such products must be clearly identified when this can or cannot be done and also when there are abuses or malpractices.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u97	In general, I would like to endorse this. I have the impression that there is still some work to be done in this area. I would also like to refer once again to the new European frame of reference which our government may have to address within Europe. I think this is a road, too. There is a great deal of uncertainty when it comes to this, and of course that is not healthy. Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u98	Mr President, Minister, this question is based on a study by De Tijd in the context of the annual screening of Belgian hospitals by Belfius. De Tijd notes that the financial situation of the Flemish and Walloon hospitals is very different. And these differences were already there before the pandemic. According to Belfius, the Belgian general hospitals together made a profit of 77 million euros. De Tijd's research now shows that the Flemish hospitals together made a profit of 96 million euros in 2019. This means that the Brussels and Walloon hospitals as a whole last year went red for 19 million euros. Belfius also reports that 30 hospitals closed 2019 with loss. Of these, only ten are in Flanders. This means that in Flanders one in five institutions ended up in red in 2019, while in Wallonia and Brussels that is no less than half of the hospitals. Moreover, the solvency of the Flemish hospitals is generally better than that of the Walloon and Brussels hospitals. Do you have an idea of the causes for these differences? How long have these trends been known and what has been done so far? How do you intend to tackle this issue in concrete terms? Do you already have a timeline in mind to tackle this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u99	Mr President, the EUR 76 million margin must of course be seen at a huge turnover of more than EUR 16 billion. So basically that sector is global in break-even. That doesn't mean it's a healthy situation, but numerically it's that break-even. A Community difference of +96 compared with Olympic 20 is not actually a very significant deviation. Both north and south of the language border, hospitals have financial difficulties. That was also the case for the current corona crisis. It's not new either. We see this in the successive MAHA studies. Could there be any reason why there are larger deficits in French-speaking Belgium? Perhaps it lies in the fact that the public sector is more represented there, where there is a heavier pension problem that is only partly covered by federal funding, by the budget of financial resources. There may be differences in the patient population that are not adequately covered by funding. The fact that hospitals are crying out for financial resources is not a new problem. Important additional investments have already been made in the past, but these additional investments naturally also had new obligations. Remember the collective agreement on the 45-plussers, on professional titles. I believe that there is a consensus that on the one hand there is a financial problem, which needs to be objectiveized, and on the other hand there is an absolute need for a very thorough reform of the financing system, which is both too complex and, as a result, gives opaque incentives as well as wrong ones. I will not tell you what my exact timetable is, because I am still working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u100	Minister, I hear you saying that it may be a pension problem or a problem due to the different patient population. You yourself say that the main point is probably that there is a lack of transparency, that there is a lack of a clear view of the problem. I think it will be very important to make clear in the coming period where the money flows are going, where it may go wrong so that concrete action can be taken. As you say, the whole hospital sector is having a hard time. However, there are also differences on both sides of the language border. I look forward with you to objectiving that data and then taking concrete steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u101	Minister, we have already discussed Marevan extensively. My specific question is how far you stand with the amendment of the Royal Decree on the inaccessible medicines?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u102	In the absence of Ms. Merckx, question 55011145C becomes moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u103	I will answer Mrs Depoorter's questions about Marevan. It's a difficult file. You know that the FAGG could not guarantee that the medicine met the conditions of quality, safety and effectiveness. A decision was therefore taken on the basis of the protection of public health. You regret the lack of explanation. The FAGG always communicates transparently about withdrawals due to quality defects, but this is a file under investigation. Therefore, it does not really fall within that framework and the elements justifying the concerned withdrawals cannot now be disclosed. You mentioned the problem of import costs. Your comment that it cannot be the intention that the patient should still be responsible for the costs of importing medicines from abroad by the pharmacist, in the case of the unavailability of an essential medicine without alternative in Belgium, is a fair observation. Discussions on this were ongoing between the previous policy cell, the FAGG and the RIZIV in order to reach a final implementing decision, whereby the company responsible for the unavailability is responsible for the additional costs involved in the unavailability of the patient. Unfortunately, because of the covid crisis, this dossier has come into the background, but that consultation will be resumed in December. It will also be given the necessary priority. You asked if there were any negotiations with Therapist. The investigation is ongoing. I can't really go into that, but the FAGG is in agreement with the company to find a solution as soon as possible. You know that the FAGG has also published a number of information and guidelines on what can happen in the absence of Marevan. I can tell you something else, but you probably know this too, about the limited availability of the pack of 25 tablets. There are very few of them, but the FAGG follows that, to try to find solutions for patients who might be able to be helped with this. The most important thing is that the FAGG is in consultation with the company to arrive at a very quick solution, but also a quick solution will take time, because there was no valid permit, which means that a valid permit is required first, then a price application and then a refund application. Even if one wants to do it very quickly, it takes time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u104	In any case, Minister, it is a good thing that there is consultation with the company in order to ensure the continuity of this medicine. After all, it is a rather cheap but good alternative to expensive anticoagulants. As mentioned above, this is used by many elderly patients who are able to control their problem well. So it is not obvious to switch. I think it is important that you mention that the working party will meet in December, because at the moment there are still a lot of medicines available besides Marevan. It is a permanent problem that we will have to tackle at its core. We are now waiting for the KB which has actually been approved but still has to be implemented. Our patients are also waiting for this, so that they can rely on the contract they actually have with the government to obtain affordable medication.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u105	Minister, in the plenary session of 12 November, I made three suggestions for reforming the Medical Accidents Fund. One of my proposals was to reopen all the files, and another to invoke faultless liability in certain files, which in the professional jargon are then regarded as MOZA, medical accidents without liability. It is often difficult for the patient, not to say impossible to prove that an error has occurred and even harder to prove who is responsible for that error. In order to reopen and revise the files, it is necessary to take into account a reasonable interpretation of the terms abnormal medical accident and temporary incapacity of at least six months, as developed in the case law to correct the excessively strict interpretation by the FMO. The fund also admitted this in Pano's reportage. Patients who wish to go to court may invoke the following arguments against the possible limitation period. First, the law on the fund does not provide for a special limitation period for the specific action on the basis of Article 23 (2) of the law contesting, rejecting MOZA. Secondly, in its decision to reject a MOZA, the FMO does not specify a specific time limit for bringing proceedings against the fund. Thirdly, a decision of the FMO rejecting a MOZA is an individual decision taken by a federal administrative authority, which is governed by the law on public access to administration, which also allows appeal to be made by that procedure. Mr. Secretary, will you reopen and re-evaluate the old rejected files? If you do so, do you do so on the basis of the given interpretation or do you have a different view? What timeline do you set for the revision of the files and the radical reform of the FMO?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u106	Mr President, Minister, I am asking this question in connection with the Panoreportage and the ensuing debate in plenary. I asked you at the time whether you would do something about the distressing situation in which the victims eventually find themselves. There is a small passage in the coalition agreement on this. In the reportage and from the various audits we have noticed that the fund needs to be fully redesigned. We have already tabled a resolution on this before the summer. You told me that you would have an analysis carried out and that it would be ready by the end of November. What did that analysis show? What are your conclusions? What steps will you take? What is the timeline of the steps you will take? My next question concerns that Panoreportage. I refer to the statement made by the director of the FMO, Mia Honinckx. It indicated that in the past the assessment was likely to be too strict. She said so herself. It has also indicated that a number of victims may have missed compensation from the FMO. Would the action against the FMO's decision in court be an appropriate means for those patients to correct past mistakes? That was a pretty significant statement from the leader of the FMO. Is it true that no limitation period has been imposed in bringing an action against the decision of the FMO? A colleague referred to this as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u107	I shall only go into one aspect, namely the limitation period. I said that before the end of the month I would ask for an analysis that would allow me to draw up a plan of action. That's what happened. I have received a delegation from the Management Committee, together with the person responsible for the Fund and the RIZIV lead official responsible. I have received an analysis and a plan of action has been presented to me. From that meeting I decided that a very thorough approach is needed. I have given rendezvous before mid-January, on the basis of a number of questions and concerns, and I would like to deepen the plan of action. That is why I do not want to go into alternative slopes today either. So I will not go into the question of whether or not the law should be thoroughly revised. I have not forgotten those questions, but I do not want to anticipate my planned consultation with the fund itself. What I announced in plenary has indeed started. A precise question was asked about the limitation period when the fund gives a negative opinion on the remuneration. First of all, I would like to say that the fund has not so far invoked the limitation period of the claim against the fund in any legal proceedings in defence. The relevant legal framework in this respect is Article 23, second paragraph, of the Medical Accidents Act, which I quote: "If the fund does not decide that compensation is to be made pursuant to Article 4, 1° or 2°, or if the opinion of the fund decides that the damage is not serious as provided for in Article 5, the applicant may, without prejudice to his actions under common law, bring an action against the fund in accordance with the Court of First Instance in order to obtain the compensation to which he considers entitled under this law." As a limitation period, the administration applies the five-year rule, which in principle also forms the basis for the assessment of non-contractual liability. Indeed, that became the standard for assessing the admissibility of the application. Since MOMA, medical accidents with liability, and MOZA, medical accidents without liability, are inextricably linked, the fund assesses, with a view to a meaningful reading of the law, the limitation period for actions against the fund for negative advice by the remaining general legal period on the basis of the five-year rule. The limitation period will, of course, be suspended as soon as there is an application to the fund for a medical accident. This indeed results in complex and diverse situations. The determining factor for limitation is the applicant's attitude, in particular how quickly he or she submitted the application. If we want to assess the limitation periods in a different way, we risk creating discrimination. Think, for example, of a dispute that is immediately brought before the Court of First Instance for the purposes of assessing the MOZA without first submitting an application to the fund. There too, the five-year rule will in principle be applied before giving a substantive ruling. The use of additional new limitation periods would not improve legal certainty. The fund stresses that the exercises of MOZA and MOMA are inextricably linked, which would lead to a different interpretation contrary to the spirit of the law. The question raised the question of the inclusion of limitation periods in the Fund's opinion. The Fund points out that the wording of the limitation periods has been amended several times over time in consultation with the Management Committee. In response to this parliamentary question, the Fund undertakes to re-introduce the issue with the Management Committee. The Fund considers that, in accordance with the case law of the Council of State, it has complied with its statutory reporting obligation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u108	Minister, I am glad that an analysis has already been requested and that a plan of action is on the table. You have come to the conclusion that a very thorough approach is necessary. I am therefore looking forward to the meeting in mid-January to examine the plan of action in greater depth and will therefore ask you a follow-up question in January.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u109	Mr Minister, our victims are, of course, very little with the analysis at present, with a proposal of a plan of action and with the new agenda in January. If one simply reads all the audits, which are already going on in June, that is enough. I wonder what the extra month or two you bought will do to help the victims. How much longer are we going to analyze and discuss? You refer to the five-year limitation period and say that the fund will consult again with the management committee, but there is one of the problems. That management committee, which has been put together jointly, is actually not the right way forward for the fund. There too, therefore, there will be no solution for our victims. The solution that our victims deserve will be achieved by a redrafting and reworking of the FMO, by ensuring that there is a better job description, that there is a better definition of the thresholds, that staff have the necessary expertise and that there is a proper financial policy. I keep repeating that the fund costs twice as much as it pays out to victims. That's unseen. We really need to move forward with that. We need to redesign the fund and rework it. With the ombudsmen service that we will be discussing in the resolution, we can clearly map out the medical accidents, see where there are problems and guide our victims. That's why it's all about. The management of the fund itself stated that at the time it judged and acted far too harshly. Our victims are still waiting for help. We do not need to buy time, but I would ask you once again to analyse our proposal for a resolution and to work with it so that we can at least help the victims forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u110	Minister, as you know, one in two people in Belgium does not know that she is diabetic. This is what Solidaris says in a statement issued on the occasion of World Diabetes Day. If not treated properly, it can cause serious health damage: in the heart, blood vessels, vision, kidneys or nerves. The number of patients could double by 2030 if nothing is done to intensify screening. Minister, if diabetes is widespread and not yet cured, it can nevertheless be stabilized. It is therefore possible to avoid the gravest consequences and, in any case, to postpone them. Are measures being considered to improve screening? Retinopathy, caused by diabetes, is a serious blindness that affects patients before the age of 60. Is an examination in an ophthalmologist automatically prescribed in diabetics? The Association des Femmes Prévoyantes Socialistes (FPS), of the Solidaris community network, also draws attention to the potential consequences of diabetes on the protective effect of natural estrogens. How can we improve the inclusion of women in clinical trials throughout the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of diabetes?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u111	I hope you do not blame me for replying in Dutch. My preparation is in Dutch. My answer is a bit technical and fairly concise. You are touching a familiar but unfortunately still very important problem all over the world. It has to do with ageing and increasing risk factors such as overweight, insufficient exercise or unhealthy nutrition. Figures from the Inter-Mutualist Agency show that about 6% of our population suffers from diabetes. It is more common as age increases, with a percentage of 17% in persons over 65 years of age. Organised screening programmes and awareness campaigns for prevention play an important role. I do have to refer to the states that are competent to do so. Increased awareness and screening in women is necessary because they are indeed at increased risk. GPs also play an important role in risk assessment in individual patients. Regular eye examination, prescribed by the GP, is a good practice in the follow-up to diabetes. The care organisation for patients with diabetes should focus on the needs of the patient, focusing on multidisciplinary cooperation between the care providers concerned. Today, there are care paths tailored to people with diabetes, depending on their situation. There are: the care pathway for persons with type 2 diabetes starting from a cooperation between the patient, the GP and the specialist, the diabetes convention for adapted and specialised treatment and follow-up, the self-regulation agreement for diabetes concluded with hospitals and the preliminaries for type 2 diabetes for persons not included in a specific care course or in the diabetes convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u112	Minister, thank you for your answer. It goes without saying that accompanying routes and measures are already on the agenda. It is of course essential to relieve diabetes, but the sooner we can detect it, the faster we can react and avoid the more serious consequences of the disease. Prevention is better than cure, especially since diabetes is still not cured in this case. We must therefore all raise awareness of screening, especially in the difficult period we are currently experiencing, during which everyone may tend to give up speaking to his general practitioner or to the competent services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u113	Minister, we believe that tuberculosis is a disease that is far from us today. It's true that she's temporary, anyway. We have less feeling that she can touch us. But it remains the most deadly infectious disease, while it is preventable and can be cured. We could cure it. A vaccine against tuberculosis has existed since 1920, but its level of protection is only 50%. Programmes to improve access to TB diagnosis and treatment, which kills more than 1.4 million people a year, lack structural funding, according to WHO. Are there any funding to combat tuberculosis? WHO also stresses the need for continued action against this terrible disease, which kills more than 4,000 people a day, and recommends new, shorter forms of preventive treatment. Are specific measures envisaged to intensify the preventive treatment of tuberculosis among the populations most at risk? Today, there are 48 vaccines against VOCID-19 in the clinical trial phase. We look forward to that, of course. They were all developed in record time, in less than a year, while for tuberculosis, for several years, we only have one vaccine in the human trial phase, which will not be marketed before 2027. How can we encourage research, also at European and international level, to find an effective vaccine against this disease?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u114	Mr President, to be quite honest, I myself am a little embarrassed by the lack of an answer that I have received in preparation. I haven't been able to improve it. Some of the questions you are asking, Mr Rigot, are, of course, related to competences which actually belong to the Communities: prevention, and everything that is related to them. You also ask questions about the dynamics of vaccine development. That is an interesting and important debate in itself, I believe: what can we do to get vaccines on the market? I don't have a prepared answer to that right now. Perhaps we should come back to this on another occasion when we have the opportunity to have a thorough debate on the future of the pharmaceutical industry and how the pharmaceutical industry can serve public health, because that is what this is really about. I would like to apologise for not being able to say much more now, except, on the one hand, to refer to the communities and, on the other hand, to a much wider debate about getting medicines and vaccines on the market in sectors where industry is perhaps less motivated or less performing than in other sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u115	Minister, thank you for your answer. You're absolutely right. Today, it is necessary to define what priorities should be in the future. If we are happy to see that the pharmaceutical industry has been able to respond quickly to the international health emergency that was there, in the face of this pandemic of VOCID, it must not cause us to lose sight of the other pandemics, the dangerous epidemics that are there, perhaps further from us, and which are neglected. They should not be forgotten out of international solidarity, nor should they be lost sight of by pharmaceutical companies because they would not represent an economic challenge in the future. Health must also be an issue of solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u116	We now come to Question No 5, by Mr Beazley, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 55011144C by Mrs Depoorter on "the state of play of the KB on the requirements framework for hospital pharmacy."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u117	Mr President, in order to buy time, I would like to say straight away that I do not have an answer to this. I am still in consultation with the FAGG on how best to respond to this. Mrs Depoorter, the question is absolutely interesting and I suggest that you submit it in writing, which can motivate us to conduct the consultation properly. You can also choose to come back to this later, because, as I have said, I do not have an answer at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u118	Minister, you may have heard that 1 December is World AIDS Day and that is just over. The AIDS interest groups note that diagnoses are being made very late today. When the patient's immune system fails, it often becomes apparent that its cause is HIV infection. This rapid diagnosis is of course very important for patients, but also for the transmission of HIV. Can you tell me, in response to the call made internationally on World AIDS Day, what progress has been made on this issue in our country? Are you sure our patients will be diagnosed on time and we will screen enough in our country? How does the curve of the number of diagnosed patients go today compared to ten years ago? Is there a big increase or not? Will you draw up an action plan on the diagnosis of HIV for our country, including a certain targeting to target groups where diagnostic tests may not yet be sufficient? Can you tell me how many people still die of AIDS in our country today a year?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u119	Do we have an idea of the problem? Yes. The annual epidemiological report on AIDS and HIV infections in Belgium has just been published by Sciensano. You will find that online. You will also see information on late HIV diagnoses. Then you ask whether this problem is as strong with us as elsewhere. The timing of diagnoses is recorded for all new diagnoses in Belgium. In 2019, 36% of the diagnosed infections in Belgium were diagnosed late. The proportion of late diagnosis varies according to the mode of transmission. In 2019, 46 percent of the diagnoses were late diagnosed in heterosexuals and 28 percent in men having sex with men. At European level, this information is presented in the annual HIV report of ECDC. You will also find this with ECDC HIV surveillance report 2020 and so on. Then I come to your question about the curve of the number of diagnosed patients over the last ten years. In 2019, 923 new HIV diagnoses were registered. This is a slight 4% increase compared to 2018. The decrease observed between 2012 and 2018 did not continue in 2019. A plateau was reached. The total number of persons diagnosed with HIV in Belgium between 2010 and 2019 is 10.408. You will also find this in Sciensano's report. You asked if there would be an action plan. The previous national HIV plan covered the period 2014-2019. In 2021, in consultation with the Länder, the policy measures to be taken further to address HIV will be examined, both in terms of prevention, diagnosis, treatment and quality of life. You also feel that the Länder have important powers in this area. You asked how many people in our country are dying of AIDS. On average, less than 100 people die from AIDS per year in Belgium on the basis of registered national data.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u120	Minister, I will certainly go over the report. In fact, it confirms the fears of the organisations, namely that this diagnosis is effectively made late. We all know that the antiviral cocktails are working very well at the moment and that they can give people a comfortable life in the long term. That is why we must continue to focus on this early diagnosis. We now see it in corona times also with regard, for example, to cancer diagnoses, which have also relapsed. We shall also have to pay particular attention to this once we are through this crisis. I would therefore like to ask for continued attention to be given to thorough testing, to give detailed guidelines to the general practitioners, to refer quickly, so that we can quickly reduce the risks, both for the infected patients and the patient who could be infected in the coming period.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u121	Mr Minister, a recent survey by the Independent Hospital Fund showed that 75% of Belgians questioned believe that products in the store shelves on our territory certainly never contain dangerous substances. We know that, unfortunately, this is not the reality. In March 2018, the Senate already adopted a report containing 72 recommendations for the prevention of endocrine disrupters and in 2019 a national action plan was launched by Health and Environment Ministers. This would be done in three stages. The first phase was the consultation of stakeholders, the second phase was the consultation of competent authorities and the third phase was the consultation of ministers responsible for health and the environment. Those Senate recommendations should serve as a basis for the action plan. Mr President, where are we on the implementation of this national action plan? What stage are we currently in? When will this national action plan be proposed? What are the key points of this action plan? I am aware that you, too, attach great importance to communication with vulnerable groups who are often aware of dangerous substances. The government must also be a performer in this area and inform our citizens about all the hormone disrupters that are unfortunately present in the various products.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u122	Mrs Farih, there is currently consultation between the competent authorities to select the actions that are being carried out. There are three priority areas, in particular preventive measures, regulatory measures and scientific research. The national plan for hormone disrupters will be submitted to the Federal and Regional Health and Environment Ministers for final approval by the end of the first quarter of 2021. It will then also be widely distributed, and I therefore intend to pass it on to the members of this committee. As regards awareness raising, awareness campaigns are planned for different target groups, in particular health professionals, the general population and the most risky population groups. These are part of the actions that will be undertaken once the national action plan has been adopted by the relevant ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u123	Thank you for your reply, Minister. We will wait patiently for the national action plan to be announced. At least I'm looking forward to following it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u124	Mrs Farih, question No. A written question and Question No 55011193C will be converted into a written question. You have already received an answer from 55011198C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u125	Mr President, that is correct. That's exactly right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u126	Mr President, Minister, this question is again about the doctors-specialists in training and the general practitioners in training. The Supreme Council of Doctors-Specialists and GPs is responsible for advice on problem reports about internships and internships services and recognitions of internships. In practice, however, the procedure appears to be very complex and lacks transparency and accessibility. The procedure can only be found in publications on the website of the FPS Public Health under notification 2019-9 and requires a lot of prior knowledge and research work. In addition, the anonymity of the assistant does not appear to be guaranteed in the procedure and the contact details of the competent person or service where the notifications are to be made are nowhere clearly stated. This, of course, raises a number of questions concerning the soundness, accessibility and transparency of the procedure of the Supreme Court. However, this is a very sensitive matter. How many complaints did the Supreme Court receive? What was the nature of these complaints? What kind of complaints were most common? Are there any trends? Is anything going to be done about that? What are the consequences of the complaints? Are you always informed as a minister of the nature and content of the complaints? Is there any consultation with the Länder? Is the relevant assistant or other employee always heard? Is the procedure sufficiently transparent and adequate in your opinion? Some colleagues have to judge an internship teacher who is by definition also a colleague. What do you think of the soundness, accessibility and transparency of the aforementioned procedure of the Supreme Court? Do you think these should be improved? If so, what should be changed in concrete terms? What do you intend to do about this? Can you tell us a timeline about this too? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u127	Mr President, Mrs Gijbels, first of all I have to refer to the competence of the federated entities to follow up on individual internship plans and problems during the course of the internship. For example, I refer to Article 12 of the Flemish Government's decision of 24 February 2017 on the procedure for differences of opinion between the internship master and the candidate. So this is a Flemish jurisdiction. The High Council of Doctors-Specialists and GPs is an advisory body at federal level with powers, inter alia, for the recognition of internships and internships services, including the procedure which may lead to the withdrawal of such recognition. The procedure of the Supreme Court of Doctors therefore concerns mainly structural and repeated problems with a particular internship master or service. Mutual communication with the recognition committees of the federated entities is of course very useful. The procedure is complementary to many previous initiatives, as mentioned in an opinion of October 2018 on quality and safety of internship services. The mandatory annual specific training of internships also has a preventive and quality enhancing effect. Since the procedure may lead to the withdrawal of recognition, the rights of the defence should be guaranteed. In this respect, it is in principle expected that the problem detector identifies itself and precisely situates the problem. Anonymous complaints are investigated, but due to the rights of the defence less easily have the same effect. Moreover, in countries where such procedures have been used for some time, the demand for anonymity appears to be exceptional. The procedure set out in October 2019 aims to provide more clarity for all stakeholders. Provision is made for the possibility of an urgent advisory procedure for immediate remedies in consultation if possible. An audit committee may be appointed. In addition to the problem detector, the internship manager, members of the internship team, the internship officer, nurses of the service and other candidates in professional training are also heard. The audit committee usually also sees representatives of collaborative disciplines, e.g. a pediatric and a materiality. A reasoned audit report shall contain corrective measures or a proposal for an opinion to withdraw the recognition. The plenary session of the Supreme Court of Doctors shall deliver a final opinion. The multidisciplinary nature of the Supreme Court ensures sufficient distance from one internship service of one discipline. Advice to withdraw recognition shall be delivered to the Minister for the final decision-making procedure. This sounds rather technical, for example with regard to monitoring the separation between the research and decision phases and the steps to be taken in the final motivation, but the publication of the internal procedure does improve transparency and does not have to complicate the submission of a notification. Problem reports on the quality of internship services are increasing, but are still limited to five cases per year. Problems are reported not only by candidates in professional training, but also, for example, by concerned recognized general practitioners or doctors-specialists. Six on-the-spot audits were carried out, some of which are still ongoing. One recognition of an internship service was withdrawn. Starting a procedure often also has an improvement effect, with the internship service operating after a year to much greater satisfaction. Where improvements are possible, the publication of this procedure is an easy way to submit notifications. In the federal procedure, there are structural problems which may be called into question by the recognition of an internship master, while the recognition committees of the federated entities deal with the individual internship problems. In concrete terms, the Communities and the federal level must clarify their powers and, where appropriate, refer them to each other. A consultation that was postponed, again because of COOVID-19, will be restarted shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u128	Minister, I am pleased to hear that you are also of the opinion that access to this procedure should be improved and that this should also be made more known to the persons concerned. Apart from that, it is a long-standing problem, where there is also a sensitivity between the student, the internship master and the employer, making it very difficult to bring certain complaints. In this sense, our group believes that it would be useful to consider whether it would be better to set up an independent ombud service or a hotline, where assistants can safely report certain malpractices.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u129	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Rohyoni's 55011224C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u130	Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to inform you of the state of play of some of my written questions that have been tabled some time ago and which have not yet been answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u131	Mrs Gijbels, you list a list in the written record of your question. Some of the answers have indeed come in and I hope to get them to you as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u132	Mr. Secretary, I am in happy expectation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u133	Mr President, Minister, I must confess that I had never heard of a perfusionist either, which is not surprising in itself. After all, there are only a hundred in the whole country. A perfusionist is a nurse's education, but fulfills a very special task. He or she operates the heart-lung machine and, as it were, also manages the patient. He prepares him or her for surgery and takes part of the anesthesia and blood pressure control. He makes sure that there is enough blood flow to all organs, that blood pressure is maintained and that the blood gets enough oxygen. They are mainly active in the operating room but also at the Intensive Care Service. It was also the perfusionists who, during the corona crisis, treated patients with the oxygen apparatus. Despite the fact that their knowledge is highly specialised, their profession is not recognized anywhere. There is no definition of who is allowed to perform these very specialised activities. Nor are they specifically reimbursed for it, not even within the framework of IFIC. They are therefore a party asking for a special professional title or a tilt in the title of nurse specialist. Firstly, Minister, do you recognise the great specialization of perfusionists? Do they indeed have to have special knowledge in order to be able to exercise their profession correctly? Secondly, are you prepared to recognise them with a special professional title or to place them under the heading of nurse specialist? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u134	Mr President, Mr De Caluwé, perfusionists are indeed carrying out technical operations in a high-risk environment, which naturally requires specialised knowledge and expertise. This is also reflected in the high standards set by The European Board of Cardiovascular Perfusion for the acquisition and maintenance of the European EBCP certificate for perfusionists. The Royal Decree of 27 September 2006 listing special professional qualifications and special professional qualifications for nursing practitioners laid down eleven special titles or specializations accessible to graduate nurses-bachelors, including the title of nurse specialised as perfusionist. However, not all the special professional titles listed in the Decision have been the subject of ministerial recognition decisions. This is the case, for example, for the title of perfusionist. Since 22 April 2019, the profession of nursing specialist has been laid down in the coordinated law of 10 May 2015 on the implementation of healthcare professions. The nursing specialist is of the master level with a strong specialisation within a specific care domain. The inclusion in the law on the exercise of health professions is a first step, but a number of implementing decisions still have to be taken for further elaboration. In this context, the federal advisory bodies concerned should first give advice on the professional activity and recognition criteria for the nursing specialist. To this end, an interprofessional working group was set up with members of the Federal Council for Nursing, the Technical Committee for Nursing and the Supreme Council of Medical Specialists and GPs. This working group also issued a consolidated opinion last summer, which should now be further validated by both the Federal Council for Nursing and the Supreme Council of Doctors-Specialists and GPs. As you know, under my predecessor, Mrs De Block, in the context of the reform of the Royal Decree No. 78 a number of important steps have been taken with regard to the nursing profession, including the registration of the nurse specialist in the law on the exercise of the health professions. The Federal Council for Nursing also issued several opinions in the previous legislature, the last of which dates back to December 2019 and deals with the training of specialised nurses. I would prefer to first take full note of all the opinions given and to be given before giving my opinion on individual recognition dossiers. I would like to see a shared vision of the nursing care of the future, in consultation with all the partners involved, including the professional organisations, the social partners, the educational field and the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u135	Of course, Minister, I understand that you want to do this in a coordinated way, with the right advice. I am particularly pleased to hear that you recognise a specialization. It's just a matter of waiting to see what's coming out of all these advices. At least I look forward to finding a solution for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u136	Mr President, in order to save time, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Fonck. This may, I hope, allow us to reach the end of the issues on the agenda of our committee meeting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u138	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, as regards the drafting of the list of instances, I can inform you that three royal decrees have been drafted. They still have to be adapted according to the opinion of the Data Protection Authority, after which they will have to obtain the approval of the Inspector of Finance. In addition, these texts must be submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. These are the following royal decrees: the royal decree establishing the list of bodies, the royal decree laying down the model of the general declaration of interest and the royal decree establishing the ethics committee. The Royal Decree establishing the list of bodies concerned should apply to the following bodies: the Federal Public Service Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment, Sciensano, the Superior Council of Health, the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products, the Federal Centre of Expertise for Health Care, the National Institute for Sickness and Disability Insurance, the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain and the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control. As the health crisis has seriously disrupted the timetable for the publication of these royal decrees, they are expected to be published in the third quarter of 2021. As far as the ethics committee is concerned, it will be set up as soon as the Royal Decree establishing it is published in the Belgian Moniteur.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u139	Minister, thank you for your answer, about which I have a few comments. It's still pretty crazy: in 2013 we vote a law that is supposed to apply in 2016. We are now in 2020 and the royal decrees have still not been taken. Thus, in practice, the law still does not apply, which raises several questions. The health crisis has a good back, but let's not say that a law passed in 2013 and supposed to come into force in 2016 is still not applicable because of the health crisis. You know that I am not aiming at you personally, but the fact that nothing has yet been finalized raises a very serious question... [[I have heard the list of bodies concerned.]] I am struck not only by the creation of many bodies outside the 'clous' of official bodies (working groups, etc.).), but also through the use of a large number of external consultants. In fact, should not all these informal parallel structures be subject to the 2013 Act? In my view, this raises a number of questions, particularly as regards the transparency and credibility of the various structures – in the general sense of the term – which issue opinions, as well as the confidence of all citizens. If what I explain here seems relevant and interesting to you, I would suggest that you pay attention to it, since all this is not finalized.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u140	Mr Anseuw is not present for his question No. 55011326C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u141	Minister, your proposal to give the general practitioners an extra 20 euros on the 2019 Global Medical Dossiers is in conflict with the doctors' syndicates. According to them, the doctors who started in 2020 remain in the cold. BVAS proposes to start from the number of GMDs in 2020, the Cartel/ASGB considers an extension of the original proposal with a flat-rate scheme for start-ups a better solution. As stated earlier in connection with the policy paper, it would be more tax-friendly to deposit this fee in the doctor's account before 20 December. You said about this in a previous committee during the discussion of the policy paper that once the money is present at the RIZIV, this will be passed on to the general practitioners. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Will this amount be able to be transferred before 20 December? Do you already have more information? Do you foresee a scheme for doctors who did not start until 2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u142	Mrs Sneppe, on the various issues you raise, there is consultation with the representatives of the doctors in the RIZIV. There are different issues. There's the tax issue and the issue of the novice general practitioners. That's all being discussed. I try to find practical solutions for this in consultation with the medical syndicates.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u143	Thank you, Minister, for your very concise reply. You say you're in agreement. I hope that this consultation will be concluded in favour of the general practitioners by 20 December, so that this fee can be transferred. Otherwise they will lose half because it will still be taken into account. As far as starting general practitioners are concerned, I hope that you will be able to reach a decision, because in the end they too have been very hard hit this year. I think they deserve a bonus too. That bonus cannot be recoupled to 2019, but needs to be recoupled to the year in which they start, so this year. I hope you will find a solution there very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u144	Mrs Van Hoof is not present for her question No. 55011337C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u145	Mr President, Mr De Caluwé, a protocol agreement was reached by the Ministers at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health on 2 December. This agreement mainly concerns the model in which the strengthening of the provision of care in the first line is organised through both the psychological function of the first line and the specialized mental mental health care. The next step is to review the modalities of the current RIZIV Convention, taking into account the protocol agreement. We do this together with the actors involved. A first meeting will take place on 11 December. It is difficult for me to define a specific timing now, but that intensive consultation should lead in the short term to an adapted RIZIV convention, which is being submitted to the RIZIV Insurance Committee for approval. You also had a question about the high intensive care services (HIC services) and intensive services (ID). These are pilot projects which aim to treat people in crisis situations, whether or not under forced admission status, with a higher staffing framework and in smaller units. Experience abroad shows that these services apply less restrictive measures of freedom than traditional recording services. They also prevent people from being forced into a crisis situation by means of a legal measure. Therefore, it is not intended to use the HIC services and IDs only for forced recordings. In cooperation with our country's umbrella organisations, my administration has developed a survey to calculate the impact of the crisis on forced withdrawals. I expect the results of this by the end of December. On this basis, and as determined by the government agreement, the aim is to further develop the mobile teams in consultation with the sector, as well as further work on the intensification of psychiatric services. We will all do so, including the previous one, within the available budget of EUR 200 million. The funds that will be invested in this will be on top of the budget already earmarked for more hands on the blanches bed, with an extra full-time unit financed by psychiatric services. For psychiatric hospitals, this is a total budget of EUR 36.5 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u146	Minister, I am pleased to hear that you are working effectively on what we have done in Parliament. I am thinking of the EUR 67 million, but also of the resolutions adopted. I am also confident that the budget that is added to that, namely the EUR 200 million, to which you referred, will be used in a good way. I hear that you are already talking about this and that you are currently having a number of questions examined. I look forward to it, because it is important that we make a very strong commitment to mental health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u147	Minister, I have already had the opportunity to raise this point with you a few weeks ago. Unfortunately, I come back to that because, when I read an article on 17 November 2020, it seemed useful to me to address it once again. In 2015, there were 174 complaints of voluntary assaults against ambulance attendants, pharmacists, medical or paramedical personnel. In 2019, there are no fewer than 247 complaints. The federal police claim to have intervened on 25 cases of physical violence in the province of Liège, 22 in Hainaut, 6 in the province of Namur, etc. In the same year, there were 83 property degradations and 873 thefts by doctors, dentists and pharmacists. In addition, 666 complaints of physical violence were filed and 316 complaints of degradation were filed in hospitals. The police also confirmed 10% more interventions among these professionals since the beginning of the pandemic. Minister, any insult or assault on the health care staff is obviously unacceptable. It appears that the statistics only reflect a small proportion of the aggressiveness that patients and families may have towards caregivers. How can victims be encouraged to file complaints? How can we stem this phenomenon and stop these aggressive behaviors that have no place in these institutions whose role is to protect us? Are new initiatives envisaged, particularly in terms of information and awareness-raising about citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u148	Mr. Rigot, please don't blame me. Today I have a succession of extremely synthetic answers to your questions. First of all, I would like to say that I share your concerns. I find such violence unacceptable, when the staff as a whole are under pressure and we can only commend their daily efforts. I will discuss with my administration possible actions. In the past, there have been projects supported by the Public Health FPS to prevent this violence at work in the hospital sector. First of all, I must take stock of what has been presented and proposed in the past and see what needs to be done in the light of the facts that I believe you rightly point out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u149	Minister, I do not blame you for having short answers, as long as they are clear. I hear a commitment from you to move forward. I will not fail to return to you because this must be translated into actions that attest to our support for those who are there in the interests of the community. When we touch one or more of them, we touch on the interests of all our fellow citizens, on the interest of being properly cared for in all the institutions at our service. It's obviously a job that needs to be done with your colleague from the interior. I therefore count on you to convey these concerns, to convey our voice to your colleague and to take action in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u150	Question No 55011360C by Mrs Muylle is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u151	Minister, my question concerns the Inter-Ministerial Conference between the European Health Ministers. I saw that the pharmaceutical strategy for Europe was on the agenda. I'm very interested in that. Minister, what position have you taken for our country? What specific action plans do you have in mind in the short term? Did you also advocate strengthening the BeNeLuxA initiative? How will this be put into practice? What is the conclusion of this inter-ministerial conference? What is the conclusion on the European HTA Network and the project BENEFIT? What concrete action will be taken in the short term in which our country will participate? Was there any mention of the covid vaccine strategy there? Has there been any mention of pharmacovigilance? We have talked about the lack of transparency of the covid vaccine contracts here before. Have we agreed on vigilance, once the vaccines have been administered to our European citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u152	It is not a reproach, but 2 December is now over. So I can only look back. That was an important meeting, but the European Commission's proposals which had been published but very recently. The pharmaceutical strategy was published on 25 November. "The European Health Union," the Health Union, was published shortly before. The German Presidency had a debate with some very general questions. We were asked to take a first position in a very general sense on the proposals relating to the European Health Union and the European Pharmaceutical Strategy. I have responded very positively to the two. I welcome the idea of a European Health Union, but also the concrete proposals that are before us. I have said on behalf of Belgium, among other things, that a real strengthening of the European response mechanism to sanitary emergencies is very important. We must indeed be able to take European action together in the event of public health crises, especially when they are cross-border of course, but they are often also cross-border. The strengthening of the Health Security Committee and ECDC is part of this, as is the exchange of data. It's things I've welcomed positively. The European pharmaceutical strategy is also part of it, and that is certainly important for a country like Belgium, because we are also a player in pharmaceutical innovation. I have put the emphasis on what is also clearly present in that strategy, namely that it is about innovation, but also about accessibility and affordability for patients and affordability for public authorities. I also stressed that we want transparency in European cooperation between the Member States and with the European Commission. We have heard a very positive attitude from Belgium. You point out a number of other things that have not actually been mentioned there. There was an oral report from ECDC on the epidemiological situation, which said, among other things, that the figures are evolving favourably in a number of countries, but there is still a long way to go. Beware of relaxing before Christmas, there was said among other things by the people of ECDC. The European Medicines Agency also announced that we would have an opinion from the agency on Pfizer on 29 December, which is of course no longer news today, and Moderna on 12 January, no news today either. Other things that you are suggesting have not actually been dealt with. I myself, of course, referred to the BeNeLuxA initiative, which we do want to strengthen further. The importance of European health technology assessment, benefit project. You are asking me if I can put this into practice further. I can't do that right now. I think that is very important, but as for other subjects that have been discussed today, covid has, of course, been a little in the way of filling that out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u153	Minister, it was, of course, a first acquaintance for you. There are, after all, concerns about the European strategy on medication policy. It's a good thing we're working together. It is also a good thing that we are going to deal with certain issues together. However, we must not lose sight of the fact that, for example, a BeNeLuxA initiative deals with a very limited number of dossiers at the moment. If we want to bring that accessibility to innovation to our patients, we will also have to develop, support, shape, for example pay for performance. We must continue to ensure that patients in our country continue to be an attractive country to distribute medication. That's a concern I sometimes have. The European plans are often long-term, but today we can note that access to innovation is not really good. We're in the middle of something. We must work on this earlier today than tomorrow. Our patients deserve that. Our patients are entitled to those innovative medicines that can certainly help them with a very serious health problem, which can make them survive and give them a higher quality of life. So I would argue that we really should develop these local opportunities. As you said, we must continue to defend the attractive role of the pharmaceutical sector, which we have in our country. We must continue to work with them. We cannot put all the eggs in that European basket, because then I fear that we will talk a lot but that access to innovation will not increase quickly for our patients. Thank you for paying attention to transparency. That is an absolute point of reference. We have now seen it in the covid contracts. It is absolutely a missed opportunity that our country is not at the table when negotiating the covid vaccines, while the Netherlands, for example, was at the table. That is a point of reference which we must all support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u154	Colleagues, I have excellent news. I announce that we have fulfilled our challenge and emptied the agenda of the day. There is still a question no. 55011468C by Mr. From Caluwe on organ donation, organonatia.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u155	Mr de Caluwe, I have a rather detailed answer to your question, but it is entirely in French. That's a little inappropriate. Besides, it's late. Could we turn that question into a written question? You'll have the answer soon, because I already have it. It just needs to be translated. Then we'll save time, too, and we can leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u156	For me, that's fine, no problem at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic314x.u157	Thank you to everyone and good evening.
