ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u1	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, best wishes! Beste wensen!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u2	Mr President, I would like to make it clear that my question concerns the renovation of prisons in general. You'll understand why. Minister, on October 11, 2019, you inaugurated Namur prison after renovation. Of course, I can only welcome this renovation, although I must remind you, at the same time, that a simple renovation is not enough to guarantee adequate conditions of detention. As the Brussels court of first instance pointed out in its conviction of the Belgian state on 9 January 2019, just a year ago, "many other things must be assured to guarantee good conditions of detention". These include access to health care, a decent visit time to get a visit, effective access to activities, and the availability of sufficient staff. We know the pack hurts at this level. It is true that I have no specific information regarding the current conditions of detention in Namur prison. I know, however, that in Brussels the conditions of detention are absolutely disastrous. We had the opportunity, together with some of my colleagues in the Committee on Justice, to visit the prisons of Saint-Gilles, Forest and Berkendael on 6 December. Unfortunately, the situation has not improved, but on the contrary! The prospect you offer publicly and regularly to remedy this situation in Brussels prisons is the famous mega-prison project in Haren. However, this mega-establishment is not expected to open until the spring of 2022, since the Council of State rejected in June 2019 the last remaining appeals against the project, in this case against the urban planning permit and the environmental permit, both of which had been issued by the Brussels Region. Minister, what is the planned rate of availability of all the units that will make up this new prison? When should detainees in the three Brussels prisons be transferred? If so, in a phased manner? What are your solutions while waiting for this transfer? I would also like to remind you that the citizens who opposed the project of mega-prison in Haren have, since 2013, asked to consider the renovation of the prisons of Saint-Gilles, Forest and Berkendael. As soon as you took office, you kept telling them that it was not possible, that Brussels prisons were too old and too small to meet the recommended standards, and that there would be no possibility of carrying out the work in occupied prisons, since the detainees would have to be moved. Now, it must be noted that you have just inaugurated the renovation of two wings of Namur Prison from the bottom to the bottom. I started my question with that. These wings are even older than Brussels prisons. You also launched the continuation of the work for two other wings. That requires clarification, Minister. Therefore, could you provide us with the definition of the gross square metres above ground used in a note from the Régie des Bâtiments and relating to the prisons of Brussels, as well as the exact surfaces of the prisons of Namur, Saint-Gilles, Forest, Berkendael, and the mega-prison of Haren? I would also like you to provide me and my colleagues with a copy of the plans of the architects of these prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u3	Mr President, I wish you and the staff and the secretary of this committee, all our parliamentary colleagues and their staff. Mrs Rohonyi, I would like first of all to point out that the Haren project does not consist of a mega-prison, but that this project is part of the philosophy of a complex or a village, consisting of several buildings. You cannot compare Haren with the existing old Brussels prisons or with Namur Prison. Indeed, Brussels has many more detainees, somewhat distorting a comparison with Namur. The renovation of the operational prison in Namur was possible because it was winged by wing, through a phased approach. The state and occupancy rate of Brussels prisons did not allow for this type of approach. Haren prison will open its doors in the course of 2022. Subsequently, a multi-phase transfer of detainees will be planned. Indeed, it is impossible to predict the move of more than 1,000 inmates at a time. Details of these phases are still being prepared. The gross surface area requested is as follows. Namur: 10 619 m2, Saint-Gilles: 40 986 m2, Forest: 25 245 m2, Berkendael: 8 069 m2. The future Haren prison alone has a total surface area of 106,138 m2. In the past, it has already been explained in detail why renovation of existing infrastructure is not a reasonable alternative, both technically and financially, as well as in terms of timing. The argument used is summarized as follows. With a view to humane detention, there is a need for a programme of needs for the replacement of Brussels prisons of approximately 106,000 square metres. The buildings of Forest, Saint-Gilles and Berkendael do not offer this area. Their land does not allow any extension, since these prisons are integrated into an urban fabric. Overcrowding in Belgian prisons prevents the closure of Brussels facilities during renovation work and, therefore, the temporary accommodation of detainees elsewhere. With regard to the ageing of Brussels prisons, pending a move, the necessary measures are constantly being taken to ensure the best possible detention in these old buildings. Where minor adjustments and repairs are necessary, they shall be rectified as soon as possible. For example, I can tell you that the cell phone was still installed in Saint-Gilles, although it was not originally planned. For obvious security reasons, it is impossible to respond to your request to make plans for prisons available. This obviously has nothing personal to do with you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u4	Minister, thank you. I asked you a lot of questions, and you answered me a lot. It is difficult for me to respond knowingly, given this wealth of information, particularly about surfaces. I would like to believe in the nature of the future Haren prison, that it would not be a mega-complex, but rather a prison village. However, it is difficult for us to verify this, since not all of the documents we have requested from you, including the invitation to tender, have been fully communicated to us. In other words, we will be faced with the fait accompli, once the prison has been built or, in any case, when the works have begun. I continue to believe that the decision to build the Haren prison was taken by the Council of Ministers in 2010 and that, therefore, the then prisoners were forced to stay almost ten years in the same conditions of detention, which were completely unworthy. While some adjustments have been made, it must be noted that this situation remains totally unacceptable. Moreover, it is for this reason that Belgium has been condemned on several occasions. I am also not reassured about the nature of Haren's project, in the sense that the Royal Informant's note favours the holding of video conferencing within the prisons themselves. We know that because there have been leaks about it. We have adopted several legislative measures in relation to this, but the desire to systematize and generalize them is a cause for concern. This seems to be a solution because Haren's prison would no longer have this proximity to the courthouse that the prisons of Saint-Gilles, Forest, Berkendael now have. I find, however, that this is an easy solution which is not acceptable in the sense that these detainees will be brought to trial in a place where they are not presented as having the presumption of innocence. In fact, when you inaugurated the new prison in Namur, you said that "this renovation clearly shows how a 19th-century prison can be modernized so that it can be adapted to the reality and requirements of today. His situation in the immediate vicinity of the correctional court also makes him an example to follow." Mr Minister, I would have liked to understand why this argument applies to Namur prison and not to Brussels prison, except for the technical explanations we provided. I would like to hear from you about this. If this cannot be done today, I will not fail to ask you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u5	Minister, located a few hundred meters from the Atomium, the American Theatre was part of the very futuristic pavilion of the United States during Expo 58. At the end of this universal exhibition, the United States offered it to the Belgian State. The city of Brussels wants to buy the building and renovate it and has submitted an offer of 2.5 million euros to the federal in 2011 and planned 7 million for its renovation. This offer has remained unanswered by your administration. The majority agreement of the city of Brussels maintains this ambition by wanting to give a future with a truly thoughtful and sustainable project to this important site of our heritage as a bilingual and bicommunal cultural pole. Minister, can you tell me the status of the purchase procedure within the Régie des Bâtiments? What are the applications submitted for this purpose? What's the status of their examination? Is there a clear agenda in this procedure for finally landing this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u6	Minister, best wishes for 2020. We will see each other a few more times in the context of what you yourself describe as the Belgian experiment to be maintained. Speaking of a Belgian experiment, Mr Zanchetta knows the Brussels coalition agreement well, but less well the Flemish coalition agreement. I know them both. The city of Brussels is indeed interested in purchasing the vacant building of the American Theatre, but there is also something like the Flemish government. It is also active in Brussels and has a government agreement, from which I quote: "We urge the federal government to transfer the American Theatre for the creation of a new Flemish cultural pool. This should lead to a theatre room with a capacity of 1,200 seats which should enable a number of larger dance, theatre and music productions to be brought to Brussels in a cost-effective manner. We also aim at a breeding ground for young artistic talent where they can create, learn and exchange among themselves. After transfer, the coordination of this project will be done by the Ancienne Belgique." Your predecessor, Jan Jambon, who is now curiously Flemish Minister of Culture and Prime Minister, said a few months ago that a federal government must first be constituted and that the Minister responsible for the Regie in that government must confirm that the federal government wants to sell the property. Let us not forget that a thorough renovation is needed. In 2018, there was a minimum of 34 million euro in renovation costs. Mr. Minister, as the supervisory minister of the Regie, you could decide to launch a public sale, which would require the necessary bidders. You know as well as I do that it is a somewhat Community matter. That was already noticeable in my colleague's question. What is your view, as Minister responsible for the Government of the Buildings, on a possible transfer to the Flemish government? Are there major investments needed for the vacant building? According to my information, it amounts to at least EUR 34 million. What's to stop the federal government from doing that part of the patrimony? Your predecessor said that it was not clear which formula to use: lease or purchase. He was in negotiations with then Flemish Minister for Culture, Sven Gatz, his predecessor. In other words, there are many questions. I hope you will not say that you cannot answer much, because the government is in current affairs, and that it is an issue for a permanent minister to be installed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u7	Mrs. Zanchetta, Mr. Ravyts, the federal government no longer has a destination for the American Theatre. The building will therefore be divested. That has been decided and will be done in the greatest federal loyalty. The procedure is being prepared. The necessary certifications have been obtained. I am planning a concrete step forward this year. The Belgian State is obliged to compete with its sales and to organise a transparent tendering procedure under which all applicants will be given the same opportunities. Candidate buyers will be asked to make themselves known after the start of the procedure. If a government other than the federal government takes an expropriation decision, competition will cease and be sold to the expropriator. The expropriation fee will then be determined by the Federal Procurement Committee. Given that the building has been closed for some time and that it no longer meets current energy management requirements, it can be expected that the new owner will have significant costs. The size of the investment will of course depend on the destination the buyer wishes to give to the site. The Government of the Buildings as a selling party will have no control over that. So I am not hiding behind the current cases, but behind the discretion, which is appropriate. I will make the decision, along with others, in the greatest federal loyalty.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answer. We will, of course, be attentive to the development of this procedure, which we will follow on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u9	Minister, thank you for reminding us of the context of federal loyalty and for highlighting the technical side of the procedure. We will continue to follow the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u10	Minister, the former Gendarmerie of Frasnes-lez-Buissenal located on the road to Hacquegnies belongs in part to the Régie des Bâtiments. Most of this building has been unoccupied for years. Part was used by the intervention police. However, for the past year, the intervention police of the Area of Hills have left this building because of unsanitary conditions. For more than a year now, apart from the use of a few garages, this building has been completely unoccupied. So, Minister, could you please indicate what your intentions are with regard to the future of this building? Is there a calendar? I heard there was some progress. I would like to hear from you about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u11	Ms.Dedonder, the complex is composed of several construction units. The federal state owns only the housing part. The brigade was transferred to the police area. The Régie and the police area are both willing to offer their respective parts for sale. The Federal Acquisition Committee was tasked with contacting the police area to launch a joint sale. The proceeds of the sale will be distributed between the police zone and the Régie. The sale organized by the Federal Acquisition Committee is planned for 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u12	That's good news for a Régie building! I am therefore satisfied that there is at least one unhealthy building in the Régie for which a solution is found. I follow with my next question on a second building. The Chair: With the best wishes of the Régie and the Minister for the year 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u13	Mr. Minister has a lot of courage with the Régie des Bâtiments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u14	Minister, the main building of the former gendarmerie in Tournai has been unoccupied for 15 years. Only an annex building, I should say accessory in view of its small size, is currently used for the storage of the Justice FPS archives. This room is in an advanced state of unsanitaryness. On 30 April last, in a reply addressed to the mayor of Tournai, you reassured the Tournaisians that a relocation of the archives was analysed as part of the master plan prepared for Tournai, and that in the event that a relocation was not possible, the site would be split in a cadastral and technical way, and that at the same time, the Régie des Bâtiments was taking measures to combat the unflattering appearance of the site, removing the weeds. I'm sorry to tell you that five months later, nothing moved. Minister, I would therefore like to know the status of this matter. What's your status in relocating the archives? Do you intend to sell this building? If so, how long will it take to put it on sale? If not, what assignment are you considering? In the meantime, do you really intend to maintain this site?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u15	Minister, do you have any good news for Mrs. Dedonder?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u16	Mr President, she is generalizing the bad news she seems to be learning. So I'm trying to surprise her. Mrs.Dedonder, on the site there are still archives of the judicial services, some of which are destined for the general archives of the Kingdom. It is planned to relocate the Justice archives after their sorting, at the beginning of 2021, when the entire former gendarmerie will be free of occupation. The phased sale of the site is more complex than initially thought, in terms of site security, access, network connections and cadastration. That is why he was finally chosen for a sale of the whole. The whole complex will be destined for public sale at this time. It is the duty of the owner, namely the State, represented by its real estate manager, the Régie des Bâtiments, to maintain the property until its future acquisition.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u17	Minister, it is therefore a question of 2021 for the whole. I hope that by that time, I will not be told that we will have to wait. So I cross my fingers. As far as maintenance is concerned, you had already said that the site should be maintained. I visited the site several times and found that he was in a lamentable state. I therefore ask you to urge the various departments to take action. In particular, it is not pleasant for the residents to live near a site in such a state of unsanitaryness. So I'm making an appointment with you at the beginning of 2021. But nothing prevents you from coming to Tournai before. It is with pleasure that I will make you visit the site in question. Furthermore, you know that there are other issues that we still have.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u18	Minister, in April 2018, a report from Deloitte was discussed in the Chamber, ordered by your predecessor, showing that the federal government paid half a billion euros for 590 rentals, of which 43% was empty for at least half. However, the Regie contested these figures and stated in April 2018 that the rented buildings represented 2.7 million square meters of 7.1 million square meters managed by it. It also stressed that less than 2% of the rented buildings were not used. A few months ago, it became known that the Regie in West Flanders rents 5 empty office buildings from a private owner for a high rent. For the office buildings in Diksmuide and Knokke the government still has to pay rent until 2027. The Regie negotiated a few months ago to terminate the leases early. In addition, 161 vacant government buildings under the management of the Regie are effectively managed by vacant management Interim Property Management. Almost 9 years ago, the Regie concluded an agreement with that real estate manager for the free management of empty buildings through a framework agreement involving residence. However, the Government of the Buildings does not intervene in the relationship between the real estate manager and the loaners. Since it is official temporary occupation, which by definition excludes permanent habitation, according to the Regie these are in any case not real rental contracts. However, due to the long duration of some occupation contracts and the effective habitation, questions can be asked about this. In the media, therefore, the possibility of residence fraud emerged. Mr Minister, can you still confirm the April 2018 figures used by the Government of the Buildings today? Do you confirm that the 43 % at least partially empty position of the rented heritage is incorrect? How many leases for vacant government buildings is the Regie currently negotiating with the owners in the context of early termination? Where are these vacant government buildings located? What total rent are we talking about right now? How will the framework agreement with Interim Real Estate Management be evaluated today? What is your view on the long-term occupation contracts of borrowers and the possibility of residence fraud in buildings owned by the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u19	Mr Minister, at the beginning of November 2019 it was announced that the government has taken over the private company Interim Real Estate Management to allow 161 vacant government buildings to be managed free of charge. In order to avoid rejuvenation, the company allows habitation in those buildings. It collects rent for that. However, not all the buildings concerned are owned by the federal government. The Government of the Buildings rents at least five empty office buildings with a large user area and with at least three floors each. For those five West Flemish buildings, the federal government should pay one and a half million euros rent in 2019. What is the basis of this cooperation, Minister? What does that contract with Interim Real Estate Management support? Why didn't the federal government try to claim part of the rental income? Where are the 161 vacant government buildings of the Government of the Buildings located? How much does maintenance cost every year? What's the estimated value of those vacant properties? What prevents the Government of the Buildings from doing something else, such as renting, re-using or selling if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u20	Mr Ravyts, Mr Roggeman, there will be some parts of my answer in French because Mr Vanden Burre had also asked a question. The Government of the Buildings currently manages 970 complexes which together have a floor area of 6.8 million square meters. Temporary vacancy is therefore inevitable. It is both a buffer area that is necessary to cope with moving movements, and an empty position resulting from strategic decisions to sell redundant buildings. Empty means risks of all kinds of damage such as vandalism, squatting or due to calamities due to lack of supervision of the property. This leads to depreciation, which the Regie as a good family father of the state spatrimonium must absolutely avoid. For this reason, in 2011 the Regie chose to put a public contract on the market in which a collaboration with an external service provider, a so-called stand-off manager, was established. At present 158 properties, spread over 93 sites, are under vacant protection at Interim Property Management, of which 151 are owned and 9 are rented. This company allows these properties to be used temporarily, leaving them maintained and heated. This also improves the quality of life of the environment. The temporary use can be residential, a use as an office or as a studio. The system allows young people who do not want to settle in a permanent place for a long time, artists, start-ups,... to stay in sometimes very special buildings for a low fee. Temporary users have a maintenance obligation and pay the energy consumption. That means the Regie itself has no maintenance costs. So this is not a classic rental that results in income, but a win-win model. Since there is almost always a waiting situation or a transition situation of uncertain duration, the contracts must be short and flexible in order to respond quickly to, for example, a date of sale or to clear the building for a new federal destination. Interim Real Estate Management therefore does not allow temporary users to establish their main residence there, as at the start of temporary use it is never certain that they will stay there for most of the year. As a consequence, the Interim Real Estate Management Agreements therefore contain a clause prohibiting the establishment of an address for service. There is fraud of residence where the actual place of residence does not correspond to the address on which that person is officially registered in the population register and where the deliberate benefit is derived from cheating with the address of residence, e.g. in order to obtain a social benefit. That is not the case here. I understand that confusion is sometimes possible, and that is why this will be further included in the next evaluation. After all, the instrument 'empty protection' is being evaluated very positively and needs to be evaluated. In addition, each party knows the terms of the agreement it signs. I would like to be careful to spread with the public the list of state property that was decided to dispose of in the long term, for the sake of equality. Announced buyers must receive the same information at the same time. Speculation could harm the Regie. In the context of Parliament's constitutional control powers, I am prepared to make available to Parliament the list of buildings the decision to sell has already been taken. For the same reason, the sales value of the premises will not be communicated until the start of the sales procedure. The amounts have yet to be approved by the Treasury Inspectorate. With regard to the issue of unoccupied buildings, as a result of a downsizing and restructuring, the FPS Finances has deserted a series of buildings. In West Flanders, these are five buildings rented from SA Fedimmo located in Nieuport, Torahout, Dixmude, Knokke and Bruges. The current annual rent of these contracts – which expire at different times between 2021 and 2027 – amounts to a total of 1.6 million euros. Since this phenomenon occurs throughout Flanders, an early termination of 10 leases has been negotiated with SA Fedimmo. The proposal is being prepared for approval by the Council of Ministers. Details can then be communicated. Finally, I would like to clarify that the Regie currently has 282 buildings in rent. The total area rented is 2,582,489 m2. Of these, 83.191 m2 are currently empty. An empty position of about 83.000 at nearly 2.6 million m2, which is not so bad. The empty position of the rented area thus fluctuates around 3,2 %. On such a patrimony, 3.2 % is not that great.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u21	Thank you for your detailed reply, Minister. With the percentage of 3.2 %, you confirm that some people like to exaggerate or put things in the wrong perspective. I note that, in any case, attention will also be paid to the issue of the right of residence clause in the case of a subsequent evaluation of the instrument. I would also like to thank you for your willingness to give Members a number of opportunities for inspection, provided that certain strict conditions are met.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u22	Thank you for your detailed reply, Minister. I agree that emptiness is inevitable if we manage a total heritage of 970 buildings. It is logical that one always uses a buffer and that it is reflected in the empty position figures. However, its volume is much less logical. One in six buildings is empty or not used. This cannot, of course, be due solely to the strategic buffer reserve. There's a lot more going on. Today we have to establish that the Government of the Buildings, our federal real estate manager, must go for the management of real estate with another, private real estate manager. So there is a structural problem. It does not seem illogical to me that a government or a public institution should go into business with private partners if it does not have certain expertise, but if it goes into business with partners who carry out the same activities as its own core task, that is a sign on the wall. Something's really going wrong. There are structural problems. I believe that, even if it is a minister in a government of current affairs, you should also pay the necessary attention to this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u23	Minister, the Lebbeke Post Office is for almost a fourth property of the Buildings Regie. The building is no longer in conformity with today's standards of accessibility. Under your predecessor, Mr Jambon, all the slopes of sale of the building were considered according to three scenarios: either bpost would take over the federal part of the post building, or the Regie would sell its share to the most offering, or both partners would sell their share and one would look for a new location. My question is very simple. What is the Government of the Buildings planning to do with the Lebbeek Post Office?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u24	Mr Roggeman, both co-owners, the Belgian State and bpost, want to reject the building. In addition to any safety or conservation work, no works are planned anymore. In 2018, Bpost and the Government of the Buildings discussed the possibility of selling the federal property to bpost, but no compromise was found on the terms of sale and therefore it was decided to market the property as a whole and distribute the proceeds on the basis of a distribution key. This method gives both owners the most chances of a correct distribution of sales revenue. The Regie awaits the timing of the sale, which will be determined by bpost, further. The Regie has no other buildings in Lebbeke and can therefore not assist bpost in its possible search for another location.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u26	Mr President, I would like to refer to your answer to my written question No. 83 on the property of the Government of the Buildings. In that reply, you refused to publish lists to Parliament. These lists list the buildings owned or rented by the Government of the Buildings. A report by the Court of Auditors from 2014 showed that the Government of the Buildings would not know its own buildings. The director's databases turned out to be incomplete. According to the Court of Auditors, the Regie would only gain a thorough patrimony knowledge with a few years' delay. Four years later, in 2018, an external review showed that the management of the portfolio of monitoring was still running squarely. At that time, the Buildings Regie managed 7.5 million square metres of buildings, but only 16 percent of these buildings could tell what happened to them. According to the screening, this was one of the causes of large-scale emptying. The accounting and administrative programme with which the Regie works is still outdated, as recent surveys show. It dates back to 1983 and is barely maintained. There is no system for allocating staff to yards or an IT platform to monitor maintenance work. According to recent surveys, malpractice leads to tens of millions of euros in additional costs. My questions to you are as follows, Minister. First of all, does the Government of the Buildings know its own property? Secondly, if so, does she have a list of them? Thirdly, if so, do you maintain your refusal to make this list available to Parliament? Fourthly, if so, how do you reconcile that position with the constitutional control function of this Parliament? Finally, can we invite the Regie here for a hearing to read out that list of its 970 buildings with the corresponding addresses? However, it seems to me more efficient for our work if we simply have that list. I believe that this would be a better use of both your time and my time and that of your cabinet staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u27	Mr Roggeman, I can assure you that the Government of the Buildings knows what real estate it manages. All state property and rental buildings are located in a database, the data of which are kept permanently up-to-date. The data shall include both technical, financial and legal information. Reports can be distilled from this database. This is a function that is often used to answer parliamentary questions and is also used in the context of real estate management. I wish to jump with caution to spread the list of state property to the public, to avoid that the Regie would be harmed by speculation on strategically interesting buildings or land. In addition, this list also includes buildings where security and other services are housed. In the context of Parliament's constitutional control powers, I am prepared to make this list available to Parliament. I can still tell you that there is a public contract in progress to have the property managed by the Regie valued at market value, so that this value can be included in the accounts later this year, according to the law of 22 May 2003 on the organisation of the budget and on the accounting of the federal state. Furthermore, a software program is being rolled out, which allows for more information about the buildings to be managed, allowing space management to be carried out and the rental and rental contracts to become more profitable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u28	For the sake of clarity, Minister, did you say that you would make the list available to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u29	I thought I said that again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u30	Minister, my question will be illustrated. I won't make it a habit, but, as they say, a good picture speaks better than a long speech. So I'll use PowerPoint. I have already made your colleague, Mr Clarinval, aware of the state of certain sculptures in the park of the Royal Museum of Central Africa in Tervuren, on the assumption that he is in charge of scientific establishments including the said museum, while being well aware that you are in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments. In 2012, the E-monumen.net site listed a dozen works of art from the park of the Royal Museum of Central Africa being in a state worthy of serious restoration. In February 2019, I asked, with photos in support, the administrator of the Régie des Bâtiments, Mr.Vrijdaghs, and the director of the Royal Museum of Central Africa in Tervuren about the state of degradation of the base of the work of Elisa Bloch, called Virginius and his daughter, located in the park of the said museum. It is a bronze sculpture dating back to 1886. I will not give too much details about the work in question. The photo you can see is about a year and a half ago. This work has deteriorated dramatically since then. As I said, at the time, I had drawn attention to the deterioration of the base and the risk that the work would collapse. At the time, Mr.Vrijdaghs replied by mail that the Vlaanderen Regio Oost service of the Régie had launched, at the beginning of 2019, an analysis of the file relating to the base of this sculpture. Due to the protection of this monument and the landscaping interest of this site, the Directorate General of Operational Services informed us that the file should also be submitted for approval to the Flemish service Onroerend Erfgoed. If you compare the picture you have before you with the one that was previously projected, you will find that in a little more than a year, the base of the work is actually much more degraded. Fortunately, we no longer know the winters, nor the freezing periods of old, but this does not prevent time from doing its work. Today, the state of the base of this sculpture is much more worrying. Other works are also concerned. If we turn to the following image, you can see that the base of the work called Marguerite at the church that dates from 1849 is also in very poor condition. This work is located in this beautiful park located around the magnificent Royal Museum of Central Africa. As you can see on this slideshow, it is most often the bases that are in poor condition. Some works also require a small refreshment. In the following picture, we notice that the work itself is really deteriorated, while for many of them it is the base that is in question. Minister, can you inform me about the restoration of the base of the work Virgilius as well as other works that would also deserve one? I admit that on November 27, 2019, I received a reply from Mr.Gryseels which leaves me a little puzzled because I think it will last a long time before something happens. Mr Gryseels replied to a letter by resuming the notification of what was probably a report in Dutch. I quote: "A solution has been discussed with Real Estate. There is only one oral agreement. The file has yet to be presented. The publication can be done after approval of Onroerend Erfgoed, probably October 2020. The file was filed with Onroerend Erfgoed. No response has yet been received. A publication is foreseen at the end of November. Implementation will take place in 2020 on the basis of weather conditions." If we have to wait for a notice of service until October 2020, it means that depending on the weather and climate, one more winter would pass without a repair of this work. I was amazed at the slowness of things. Minister Clarinval replied that there was the "Topstukken" decree in Flanders. Should we really wait for this authorization of services for a federal work in a federal domain, which is owned by the state? It is ultimately about the repair of the base, and not even the work itself. Is the Royal Institute of Artistic Heritage not competent to do so? Minister, I am concerned about the state of this work, and about others.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u31	Mr Delizée, as an existential attitude and arrangement, I obviously share your impatience. But since the question you asked me focused on Virginius, the answer I have only concerns this work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u32	No problem!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u33	This is a protected monument. It was necessary to obtain the agreement of the Flemish agency Onroerend Erfgoed. The latter agreed on 5 December 2019 to proceed with the restoration of the bronze statue and the reconstruction of an identical concrete base. This base is currently constructed of coated brick, which after examination is still strong enough to withstand this winter. However, pending the renovation of this floor, control has been put in place to ensure that, if unexpected problems arise, protective measures are taken immediately. The restoration budget is provided for in the 2020 investment programme. As far as weather conditions permit, work will be carried out in spring 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u34	Minister, you are telling me that the work will be done in the spring of 2020. It's very soon. Indeed, I am less worried about this work. In the answer given to me, we were talking about October 2020. This may mean one more winter and the intensification of degradation. If you tell me that the work will be done in 2020, I think we can be reassured. It is a common heritage of all Belgians, of all citizens. I am pleased to know that the repairs will take place on time. Of course, perhaps the Régie can also look at other bases. There's less urgency. But it is an exceptional museum, in a park that is as much so; it is therefore necessary that the works be renovated as best as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u35	Mr Ben Accour is not present. His question No. 55002181C expires. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanden Burre's question was converted into a written question at his request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u36	Minister, the FPC Ghent is perhaps one of the flagship points of your policy. There is also a forensic psychiatric center in Antwerp. So both buildings are, to put it mildly, quite recent. But the staff of the forensic psychiatric center in Ghent, where more than 260 insanity-relievable patients are staying, is currently operating with a modified working schedule, because the room doors cannot be reliably closed. I will break down an open door when I say that it creates additional workload and a feeling of insecurity. The management now offers a temporary solution by recruiting two agents from a private security firm, but the media say that a repair is not possible in the very short term. There was consultation with the unions. They are a bit impatient and demand a final answer to the problem by next week, 21 January, if I am in favour. If not, they are threatening strike actions, which would be a bit strange in such an FPC. It's not the first time there's been trouble. You yourself indicated in the press that you were able to resolve the problems of the connecting doors between the various parts of the building very quickly last year. Apparently, it is now a bit more technically problematic to find a very quick solution. I'd like to get an update. After all, it is appalling that such problems appear fairly quickly in this new building. The Government of the Buildings has tried to minimize them, by saying that it is only a very limited number of doors. Anyway, the facts reached the press and people, not least the staff, have questions about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u37	Minister, although the FPC Ghent, which cost about 80 million, has only been in use since 2014, we can see that there are a lot of problems. That's not the first time. In August there were also problems with the doors. Recently, patients have been shown to be able to manipulate the automatic locks of their doors and walk out of their rooms, when they should actually be in jail. This, of course, brings dangerous situations for both patients and staff. In addition, staff have to adjust the employment rate in order to ensure safety despite the unreliable locks, thus increasing the workload. The common trade union front therefore immediately demands a definitive solution from the Government of the Buildings, which manages the building, and threatens to take action if that solution does not come soon. Minister, what scale is the problem with the locks in the FPC in Ghent? Do all the cell doors need to be modified? What was the cost of those automatic locks? Can the costs be recovered from the contractor concerned? Is the FPC in Antwerp equipped with the same locks from the same supplier? What's the situation there? Will trade union demands be met for a quick and definitive solution for the poorly working doors?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u38	Mr Ravyts, Mrs Vindevoghel, I would first like to stress that I am very concerned about the centres for interned people. I regret that there are problems in that new building, which is closely followed by my staff and by the Directors of the Buildings. In the autumn of 2019 I even received the psychiatric staff from the FPC to listen to their concerns about the doors. Following the incident at the end of 2019 additional tests were carried out on a number of room doors. On this basis, it is assumed that a combination of very specific circumstances and factors, such as vandalism, slight wear and tear of the rubber seal and small performance tolerances, caused a problem at some point between the magnetic contacts of the door blade and the lock, which allowed it to be opened. That problem has so far arisen at only one door and the security situation is under control, which does not prevent the cause of the problem from being addressed. On the basis of the tests, a technical proposal was drawn up for the doors of the room, with a view to resolving the problem definitively. Their roll-out will take place as soon as possible, depending on delivery times. With regard to the problem with the circulation doors, most critical faulty doors - 27 pieces - were replaced. Now that the result of the technical expertise is known, a plan of approach is being prepared to replace 84 door frames, where the same problem may arise. Three of them will be replaced by the end of this month. The exact cost of the repairs is not yet known. On the basis of the report of the laboratory investigation, the liability of the various parties concerned can be determined. This will form the basis for the allocation of costs. For the sake of clarity, there will be no waiting to implement the solution. As it is important that all the partners concerned are properly informed, an initiative was taken for a consultation on 21 January. All measures taken and to be taken by the Government of the Buildings, as well as their timing, will be explained to management and trade unions. A different type of door and lock was used in the FPC Antwerpen. As far as I know, no problems were reported with the doors in the FPC Antwerp until today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that there will be a new consultation on 21 January, where staff will be informed in detail of the initiatives already taken and to be taken. I also understand that technical expertise has already led to an analysis of the situation and that there are now delivery deadlines. We'll follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We hope that there will be a solution to all these problems as soon as possible, so that both the staff and the people who stay there can work and stay in a safe environment. After all, it is not the first problem. The same problem occurred in August.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u41	Minister, on 12 December the Brussels Government decided to protect the Chinese Pavilion and the Japanese Tower and the garden as its heritage. The Royal Commission for Monuments and Landscapes has delivered a positive opinion. The Government of the Buildings also responded positively to the ranking. Minister, I have a number of questions about this. First of all, how do you look at that positive advice? Secondly, what is your view on the classification of these buildings and the urgency of the restoration? Thirdly, we know that the Government of the Buildings has already done study work on this in the past. That was Origin, if I'm properly informed. I wonder whether this has already led to a concrete plan of action for the possible renovation of both buildings? Are you prepared to make the necessary budget available? Fourthly, has this been discussed with your Brussels colleague, Mr Smet? If so, what has been the outcome of this consultation? Fifth, do you have a positive attitude towards the slopes to attract private sponsorship for this project? Sixthly, has this project been discussed during the trade mission in China? Is there any interest in working together on this renovation from China? If so, are you interested in that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u42	The Japanese Tower and the Chinese Pavilion are the property of the Royal Gift and are managed by the Government of the Buildings. The Royal Gift has been making both sites available to the State for years, in particular through the Government of the Buildings and the Royal Museums. These are historic buildings with an important place in Belgian history and a great patrimonial value. With this classification both the facades, the interior and the surrounding garden of both buildings are now protected. It is an additional assurance that these buildings can be visited by future generations. For the Chinese Pavilion, the study firm Origin has already been designated. The study consists of two parts. In a first phase the urgent works were described. The complete renovation will then be completed. This first phase will start in the course of next week with the publication of the urgent structural security works. These works will therefore be launched this year. The necessary budget was reserved for this purpose. In parallel with this implementation, the general renovation study will also be continued this year. For the Japanese Tower, the study is ongoing for the renovation of the pedestal on the ground floor. Security works will also be launched this year, with a monitoring system with camera surveillance and perimeter detection. For further renovation, the study assignment has yet to be launched. So far I have not been contacted by my colleague in the Brussels Government, Pascal Smet, to talk about the dossier. No concrete proposals have been made in the area of private financing. However, I am, of course, open to any proposal that can offer a solution that is suitable for all parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u43	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. It's a project that interests us. We'll keep following it. Only the question about the Chinese trade mission has not been answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u44	Mr Minister, since the beginning of this year, the Buildings Regie has denied motorists access to the Esplanade of the Cinquantenaire Park. It will be closed for at least three years. The spokesperson of the Regie mentioned the roof works on the buildings as a reason for this decision. There is a fear of obstruction and danger of car traffic in the square. I wonder whether it was examined whether a partial closure or marking of the site could have minimized the safety risks rather than completely abolishing the parking lot. Does this also mean that the site will be fully opened up after the completion of the works when the safety risks no longer exist? This also means that hundreds of cars will have to park somewhere else. Has this been discussed with local and regional mobility services? What did that lead to? Is the complete closure of the site an own initiative of the Government of the Buildings? Or did this come at the request of the municipality or the Region? Finally, how were the Cinquantenaire Museums involved in this decision? What impact is expected on the accessibility and visitor figures of these museums? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u45	Mr Roggeman, since October 2018, the roofs of the buildings in the Cinquantenaire Park have been under construction. In addition to the renovation of all these roofs, the lighting of the buildings is renewed and the fence around the park is restored. All these works require security measures. In order to ensure the safety and continuity of the works, it is necessary to safeguard both the entire esplanade and the passage under the arcades. This can no longer be guaranteed in the current situation. The safety of visitors, hikers and cyclists was always set out. As the yard area changes several times, depending on the stage of the works, and many other yards will start in 2020, it is impossible to run all these yards simultaneously with a possibility of parking. This was discussed with all interested parties: the institutions that are housed there, the Brussels Region, the Brussels Environment, the police zones and the mayors of Brussels and Etterbeek. The decision of this consultation was that the entire site during the duration of the works is not accessible to transit traffic and to unauthorised persons only subject to permission. This decision was not taken solely by the Government of the Buildings. All stakeholders of the site were involved. They were asked about their concerns and needs. Moreover, the esplanade is not a public road, but a private domain with a public character. After the work, the situation will be reviewed and evaluated. For the bus, metro, cyclists and pedestrians nothing changes. The site remains accessible to the staff of the museums concerned, visiting buses, disabled persons, deliveries, events and emergency services. The Government of the Buildings has, in cooperation with the authorities concerned, drawn up a accessibility plan which is on the website of the three museums. There are also public parking facilities nearby.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is positive that the opening-up of this area will be re-examined when the work is completed. Furthermore, the mantra safety first applies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would suggest that we take up Mrs Vindevoghel's question on point 16. Then I shall return to Mrs Verhaert's question on point 10 and then point 17.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u48	Mr President, at the beginning of this year a water quality test revealed the presence of legionella bacteria in the IBM of Paifve in Wallonia. These legionella bacteria can cause legionellosis, a deadly lung disease. To prevent an epidemic, access to the showers is prohibited. It is therefore a serious threat to public health, to the internals and staff of the institution. The Government of the Buildings confirms that the problem arises from the preventive water treatment system against the bacteria. The chemicals used so far no longer meet the standards in force in Belgium, so that the use of another product is necessary, but the pumps used in the plants are very sensitive to the new product used and therefore need to be adapted. As a result, the water treatment system can no longer combat legionella effectively. The construction director has therefore decided to implement a temporary emergency solution, consisting of shower heads with an antibacterial filter pattern. The incubation period of legionella is 2 to 19 days. So there may still be cases of infection. How will the interned and staff involved be monitored, given the flu-like symptoms of legionella and the predicted normal flu epidemic? How long will the showers on the site for the interned be put out of service? In the meantime, can they wash themselves? How's that going? What structural measures will be taken on the ground to prevent future infection with Legionella bacteria and within what time limit? What is the situation in the other detention centres? Are similar infections possible there by using the same water treatment systems? How often is water quality measured in detention centres? Are those data accessible to the public?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u49	Mrs. Vindevoghel, no cases of legionellosis have been reported. Both the medical service and the staff concerned are aware of the problem and alert to symptoms. In this context, a service note was prepared by the Executive Board. A short-term solution was worked out on the spot last Friday. It is about carrying out a chemical treatment, putting the pumps back into operation and placing filter elements on the shower heads. The first two steps are already in progress. The filter elements were ordered, but can only be delivered tomorrow. After installation of those elements, the showers can be used again. After that, new tests will be carried out. To avoid any risk, the filter elements remain installed pending the results of the analysis. At present hot water is distributed on cell by the device, so that the internees can wash in the cell. In order to replace the existing system, an ionisation system will be placed. Five companies were asked for a bid by January 27, 2020. After the administrative handling of the file, the system can be installed. The Government of the Buildings will soon report the exact timing to the prison. The installed systems vary from prison to prison. Some have a dosing pump or a system with ionisation. No automatic water testing shall be carried out, but in case of doubt, water quality tests shall always be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u50	Minister, Geel built a peace dish on the Ecodroom site in 2009. The peace dish would be moved to a more modern building. The city invested 1.4 million euros for this. On 4 May 2015, after a long period of vacancy, the College agreed in principle to a lease agreement between the city and the Government of the Buildings. However, after consultation with the FPS Justice and the Government of the Buildings, it was decided not to launch the file, as a result of the master plan for the peace appetizers that would move the peace court of Geel to Mol. When it became clear that there would never be a peace court, the city decided to give the building a different destination after years of emptiness. Recently the news came that the Buildings Regie would give a compensation of 173,000 euros to the city of Geel because the building that was meant to be a peace court would never be used as such. The reform of the peace courts will require a total of 34 peace courts to be closed. The aim is to improve the use of staff and resources, as well as to save rent, maintenance and cost of utility connections. Mr Minister, I have a few questions about this. Was there a question before 2009 from the Government of the Buildings or the FPS Justice to the city of Geel for the construction of a new peace court? What agreements were made before the decision was taken on the construction of this peace court? Was there a contract signed? When a sale to the Regie der Bouwpen was not considered, a lease was envisaged. Was this lease signed with the city of Geel? If so, during what period did it run? What rents were paid in that case? On what basis was the compensation of 173,000 euro determined? Have other compensations already been paid by the Government of the Buildings to municipal authorities in the context of the peace courts? What was the amount of those compensations? How was that amount determined? Are there any other talks going on between the Government of the Buildings and other municipal authorities? If so, where? On what basis will the amount of compensation be determined there? When will all these conversations be completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u51	Mrs Verhaert, I would first like to clarify that this dossier dates back to the new legislation that the municipalities made responsible for housing the peace courts. The city of Geel expressed its desire in 2009 to house the peace court that was housed in a rented building in a new building to be established by the city itself. Regular consultations were held on all aspects of the project by the Regie, the city and the FPS Justice Department. However, a cooperation or rental agreement was never signed by the parties. At the beginning of 2016 the file was first put on hold by the FPS Justice and then completely cancelled, after the decision had been made that the city of Geel would no longer house a peace court. The building had already been established by now. Both the FPS Justice and the Government of the Buildings received a letter of formal notice from the city of Geel asking for compensation for the negative impact of the specific layout of the building on the sales value. In view of the far-reaching contractual negotiations, which had not led to a formal agreement, the Buildings Regie acknowledged partial liability and a compromise was reached by the Regie to pay a sum of 173,116,50 euro to the city of Geel and to leave the remaining part of the damage to the city. The amount of EUR 173,116,50 was calculated on the basis of 50% of the installation costs for a peace court, calculated on the basis of recent reference projects for the establishment of peace courts. This amount also includes half of the costs borne by the city for the staff involved in the construction of the peace court. Finally, I can confirm that no other compensation has been granted in connection with the construction of other peace courts. There are no such talks with any other municipal or city authorities at this time either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u52	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I am pleased to hear that this is the only dossier that is currently under discussion. It is, of course, a pity that such sums are being released in order to build a court of peace, in which no judge of peace finally sat. Although the compensation is small, I am satisfied that compensation has been given for the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u53	Mr Minister, a few years ago, a cooperation was set up between the Kempense intercommunal IOK, the municipality of Merksplas and its energy company to mistake the GFT waste from the inhabitants of the Kempen and to convert it to methane or green gas. Meanwhile, the installation on the IOK site at Merksplas is operational and green gas is generated. That's a first in Belgium. For years there have also been talks with the Government of the Buildings to use the green gas for the energy supply of the criminal facility and the centre for illegal immigrants, the Merksplas-Koloneie. After many and long discussions, a proposal has emerged that is interesting for all parties. For example, the ecological footprint for the criminal establishment and the illegal centre would fall enormously, without any additional cost. However, the success of the entire project depends both on European grants that have been promised for this and on the green gas certificates that are received for the use of green gas. Since these are limited in time and the period of 10 years has since started, the agreement between the Buildings Management and the other partners is quite urgent. Every day that can't be delivered, certificates are dropped. That is why I have a number of questions for you, Minister. Can you clarify whether or not to participate in this energy project by the Government of the Buildings? If so, is there any idea when the agreement can be signed with the other partners? If the energy project is cancelled, are there any alternatives to bring down the ecological footprint of the two sites on the Merksplas-Kolonie?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u54	Mrs Verhaert, the Regie informed me about the initiatives of the municipality of Merksplas and the biogas production plant for green gas based on GFT waste. Projects in the context of sustainable energy consumption are very important and receive my particular attention. For all its managed projects, the Buildings Control has already switched to 100 % of green electricity. For hot water production, the feasibility of sustainable alternatives is always examined. The regulation of the Buildings and the energy company Ebem came up with a proposal for a cooperation agreement last year. In the meantime, that agreement has been read by the Legal Service of the Government of the Buildings. The file now needs to be handled administratively. It has yet to be submitted to the inspection of Finance, both at the Government of the Buildings and at the occupying services of the DVZ and the FPS Justice Department. I'll press the Buildings Regie for a quick treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am also pleased to hear that you are going to put a rush on it, because it is important that we work on sustainable energy use.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u56	Mr. Secretary, Friday night 10 January three prisoners escaped from their cells in Carrot's prison. One of them even managed to shut down a long list of security equipment, from a reinforced cell wall, surveillance cameras, detection wire to a fence under power, and escape from prison. A few years ago, the prison walls at Root were reinforced along the inside with durable plates that are normally used as façade coverings. Yet the three prisoners were given such a record. They would have used a TV camera brace to make a hole in a few days. The prisoners were able to escape their cells through a hole of 30 to 40 centimeters in the wall of their cells. The trade unions have been complaining for years about the lack of prison infrastructure in Belgium, apparently without result, in view of the repeated successful escape attempts made in recent months. Indeed, given the way in which the prisoners managed to escape, by making a hole in a reinforced prison wall, the current investment in our prison infrastructure seems to be far too low to guarantee the safety of society and its staff. Is it true, Minister, that a few years ago there was investment in strengthening the prison walls in Root? If so, what investment was involved? What was the cost of that? Exactly how thick was the wall in question and from what material was that wall built? Did that wall find itself in good condition or was it already affected by moisture, for example? As previous measures to strengthen the prison walls could not prevent prisoners from cutting a hole in the wall, new measures need to be taken. What measures are you taking? Are there any other security risks with the prison infrastructure at Root?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u57	Mrs. Vindevoghel, for security reasons, I can't communicate details of that incident. Its cause is a combination of factors and a combination of circumstances. On the other hand, it is absolutely too early to establish causal links with the aforementioned escape. The research focuses not only on prison equipment, but also on other aspects, which relate to procedures and work processes. Investment is constantly being made to improve the safety of prisons, both at Root and in the other institutions. Between 2016 and 2019, 122.5 million euros were invested in prisons in Belgium by the Government of the Buildings.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-14-55-commissie-ic086x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but I think we should do some serious work on it. This isn't the first escape. There were still others. I hope that the research will provide more clarity so that we can work on a prevention plan and solve this problem.
