ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u1	Good morning, everyone. Thank you for being present at this committee meeting during parliamentary holidays. It is important to be able to stick to the current situation. Some groups have asked for us to meet. We had the opportunity to meet again at the end of July. We're here after mid-August. It is essential that the ministers can explain the situation to us and, above all, answer our questions. Since this is a topical debate today, there will be no introductory statement by the Ministers, whom I welcome and thank for their presence. I was informed that a consensus committee was to be held at 4:00 p.m. That is why we have advanced our meeting at 1:30 p.m., so that ministers can be released by 4:00 p.m. at the latest. In view of this agenda, the format of the current debate normally requires that everyone be able to ask the questions introduced. However, it comes to my mind that one or the other group has experienced some problems. Yesterday, Monday, August 17, the administration of the House was granted recuperation leave on the holiday of August 15. As a result, some members who had not paid sufficient attention to the timetable could not table their questions. If you agree, I propose that you operate according to the practice imposed by our President, by granting parliamentary speaking time: eight minutes for groups of three members, six minutes for groups of two members and three minutes for single members. Can we work like this? Thus, we will be able to respect the timing and allow a slight reply time at the end of the meeting. In addition, we must agree on the speaking time to be reserved for members of the government. I propose that they speak together for three quarters of an hour, knowing that the number of questions addressed to Mrs De Block amounts to twenty-five – that is complete success! – and that only eight questions are addressed to Mr. Backer. I assume that you could equitably allocate your speaking time to answer the questions that have been tabled. May I ask for the committee's approval of this proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u2	Madam President, our group has a problem with your proposal because, since Mr Gilissen's questions, which apparently were to be dealt with in another committee until yesterday, are being added to the debate here today, the six minutes speaking time for Mrs Sneppe, Mr Gilissen and myself is very limited. We have always used less minutes in the past than we were entitled to. So, for once, I would like to appeal to your Leniency to give us a few more moments so that Mr Gilissen can also be mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u3	How many questions does your group have in total?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u4	All three of us have two questions each time. So if we get a minute and a half longer, we appreciate that very much and I am eternally grateful plus two days.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u5	Mr Creyelman, if I give you a few more minutes, I fear that the representatives of the various groups will do the same. N-VA members also tabled a significant number of questions. I therefore propose that you respect the timing that has been given and take advantage of the replicas to draw attention to the elements that you may not have had time to raise during your questions. Colleagues, do you agree with my proposal? [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u6	Madam President, since Mrs Gijbels is not yet here, I will start with N-VA. Thank you for organising the extra committee meeting. I refer to the text of my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u7	Minister, Minister, I found the absence of both of you very special and even more so the absence of the Prime Minister since the intertwined measures. However, a great deal has happened and our citizens are really very concerned. We have heard from the experts in the special committee investigating the COOVID-19 crisis that one of the problems is that there are too many experts, but too few politicians, and that there is too little clear communication. We now have an invisible Prime Minister, even though there is already a forthcoming meeting of the National Security Council. Do you have a communication plan for the Security Council next Thursday? Do you forget to communicate unequivocally and linearly, or will it become chaos again? Will you propose substantive measures for Brussels? They seem to be forcing themselves. I have often mentioned the serious consequences for the mental health care of our citizens. Was the possible extension of measures or additional measures tested with a behavioural psychologist? Have you made an assessment of the acceptance or feasibility of possible new measures? The summer was much heavier not only for our citizens but also for our care providers. Therefore, the question arises whether the RIZIV nomenclature for general practitioners, which was not in order before the recess, is already in order. Are the doctors getting paid yet? What is the progress on the mental health plan of our healthcare providers? How far is the plan for the mental health care of our young people, who will go back to school? I would also like to receive an update of the number of tests, wipers and reagents for PCR testing. Dr. Pardon expressed concern at his fear of shortages. Is that fear justified? In connection with the PCR tests, I would also like to know why the CT value is not immediately communicated to the general practitioners, since this value is an important factor in determining the patient's infectiousness. With regard to personal protective equipment, 22 million surgical mouth masks have been destroyed in addition to the FFP2 masks, which we are already aware of. Is that right? Were they tested? Has that been discussed in the government? What progress has been made with the agreement on the COVID-19 vaccine? Do you know how many vaccines our country will receive? What's the key? What is the price of the vaccine? Has a commission been set up as other countries have done? Is there a preliminary agreement? Then I also have a question about the 400 million shots. I already asked you that question. Do you think we should fear shortages? As far as influenza vaccination is concerned, I am grateful to you for taking action and making arrangements. It is only a pity that this will be purely symbolic as there are no support measures and no registration is requested. Can you confirm that you will have the extra 500,000 flu vaccines? Why didn't you ask for registration? The occupational health services do not register and this makes it very difficult for hospitals and doctors to know who has been vaccinated or not. You also say that you will act if the agreements are not followed. How will you do this? Who will punish you? The pharmacists will have received all the vaccines by then. Will you hold the pharmacist responsible, the prescriber or the occupational health service? How do you deal with that in concrete terms? As far as Remdesivir is concerned, I would have liked to have heard your pharmacodynamic analysis. I would also like to know if you will still negotiate with the company and if you will apply a pay for performance. Madam Secretary, I read in the press about a plan for a second COOVID-19 wave. I requested this from your services, but I didn't receive this. I do not understand why your services have not had time to make this known to Members of Parliament, especially after Dr Belkhir's statements on la débrouille during the first wave. The doctors had to work out their plan. Can you get me your plan? Does this plan include the follow-up of patients from the first wave suffering from cardiovascular and pulmonary problems and major fatigue? Does the plan include continuity of care?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u8	I can confine myself to three questions which I asked last time and which I was a little disappointed because I did not receive an answer. Firstly, with regard to better identification of infection sites, my question was whether we know that there is a higher level of contagion among holidaymakers after returning from a red or orange zone. It was said at the time that those data would still be provided. However, this never happened unless I made a mistake. Therefore, can you tell us today what the percentage of positive tests for holidaymakers returning from a risk area is? Secondly, at the last committee meeting, I commended you for the announced plans to mentally support the care staff. After all, this is very important. We have looked at this from the field of work and no concrete commitment has yet been made in this respect. However, the field of work has a huge need in this area. Can this be more specific? Psychological support for the care staff in the care institution has been announced, but how many resources are involved and when are they allocated to hospitals, among others? When will this be done? Finally, I would like to say that I regret that our input is not taken into account very much. I understand that security measures need to be speeded up. Nevertheless, I hear colleagues from various groups raising very legitimate issues. I note that many of the predictions we make also come true. We also referred last time to the reduction in the level of support for measures because they were not sufficiently explained. Even today, our prediction has been fulfilled. Those measures have now been adjusted. We would have problems at local level with people from Antwerp, for example, who are going to work out in the Kempen. It is a pity that, if we predict this and ask for solutions to it, it will not be dealt with immediately. It would save us a lot of trouble. I've already made a whole list of things that don't make any sense. That way, people sitting in a bubble together at home are not allowed to go shopping together. I have certainly encouraged that the choice has now been made to keep economic life running and to reduce social life further. Nevertheless, there must be a logic around limiting social life. The measures must be justified, especially for the sectors concerned, such as our traders and the catering industry. As you know, the solders are very important to our merchants. So not being allowed to shop together is a pity. Maybe you could give us some explanation on that today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u9	Madam President, my colleague Barbara Creemers, who has problems with connection, I will speak alone today. We met about 15 days ago. As far as testing policy is concerned, we have discussed at length the issue of the introduction of salivary tests, which are easier to carry out on a large scale, particularly in schools. Indeed, the arrival of autumn marks the appearance of other viruses such as seasonal flu. We do not yet know what the virulence of these viruses will be or the extent to which they will affect young and old. According to Sciensano's estimates, up to 70,000 tests per day will be required. Fifteen days ago, we were not yet aware of the exact procedures for implementing the tests in question, and today I still do not see what measures have already been taken in this regard. On the other hand, I see a lot of delay on the part of Sciensano with regard to these tests. Minister, could you give us some insight into the testing strategy to be developed for the school year in the next two weeks? I think there's an emergency. As winter approaches, I want to come back to the issue of viruses. Last July 31st, WHO identified no fewer than 165 research projects involving vaccine applicants. Today, two American companies are clearly ahead, but Chinese and European companies are also candidates. According to some experts, the results of the first tests are encouraging, but given the quantities to be produced, it will take some time before distribution can begin. Minister, have you ever made contact with one of these companies to reserve vaccines for our fellow citizens? Have you also entered into agreements with Europe in this respect? What is the status of these agreements today? Finally, I would like to address the question of the form that should be produced when returning from abroad. Since 1 August, all persons returning from abroad are required to complete a tracking form within 48 hours of their entry into the country. Many holidaymakers say they did not receive any follow-up on their arrival on Belgian territory, while others complain that they have been confronted with maintenance problems on the website and have thus had difficulties in carrying out the necessary steps online. In view of the resurgence of cases and the near end of the holidays, have you put in place any new measures to improve communication and access to this form, which is essential for tracing? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u10	Madam Chair, Minister, Minister, this commission is important two weeks after the difficult measures taken by the NSC, which have generated tensions, misunderstandings and inconsistencies. These measures are currently leading to genuine cacophony in terms of communication, undoubtedly causing the fatigue of citizens and the loss of confidence and membership. This is becoming a serious problem. Despite this, for 15 days neither the government nor the Prime Minister nor the ministers responsible have been heard to give a positive message or to provide support. Experts with differing opinions were heard. We have seen figures that are neither reliable nor complete and yet serve as the basis for your decisions. Today, clarity must be brought back. We need to bring back clarity first on the wearing of the mask that generates cacophony. On the one hand, there are those who believe, like Celeval, that the generalization of the wearing of the mask may undermine the support of the public, those and those, like Jean-Luc Gala, while he is fervent defender of the wearing of the mask, who say that we must revisit the frame and perhaps begin by obliging everyone to always have a mask on himself and by setting a clear framework on the conditions of his wearing. On the other hand, there are others who say that the mask is only an answer or that it is the answer. Minister, I look forward to your reflection on the matter. Should the mask be worn or not? We need the support of the citizens. Are you considering clarifying the measures, standards, conditions and locations of wearing the mask and ensuring that there is alignment at the level of each province and region so that citizens are not held hostage to decisions that you are forcing our mayors to take in your place? The second problem concerns the five-person bubble, a measure that is difficult to apply and therefore difficult to apply. Today, faced with results that some interpret as positive, we again have cacophony. On the one hand, there is Mrs Jacobs, the spokesman, who believes that the measure should be softened because we lose the support or Mr Coppieters who says the same thing: the scientific effectiveness of the five-bubble is not proven today, we need to expand and the choice of enlargement is a political choice. On the other hand, Marc Van Ranst, speaking on behalf of the GEES, says it is too early to enlarge this bubble. Minister, on what basis did you establish a five-person bubble? Have you received expert advice? Is this a political choice? If so, what political choice will you make in the coming days? Will you continue along this path at the risk of losing the citizens' support? Minister, there is also the question of testing and tracing - the key to fighting, the key to achieving our goal. Today, what can be said about this? In April, Mr. De Backer said we were going to run 10,000 tests a day. A little later, Mr.Clarinval, for his part, put the bar higher by speaking of 50 or 60,000 tests. At that time, it was said to be the champions of testing, to be very good at European level. At the beginning of May, the Prime Minister declared that Belgium had a positive impact on testing since it was at the top of European countries. Today, 70,000 tests are announced for, perhaps, September. At the same time, we see the difficulty our fellow citizens face in being tested. It is complex to obtain the prescription. It's complicated to get an appointment for the test. It often takes three days to receive the test result. We can see that elsewhere, especially in France, in small villages, one can easily get tested. This is also the case in Greece, as in many other countries. And yet, at home, when we say we have to test, we can't do it. I hear we're now sending the ball back to the Regions. So when it comes to welcoming the testing, it's the federal, but when it doesn't work, it's the Regions! There is no captain on board the vessel at this time. There is also no problem when it comes to communication or tracing, for which the difficulty seems to be eloquent. While decisions have been taken without the advice of the Council of State on the implementation of tracing, it is still not working properly. But once again, it is not the fault of the federal government, but of others! That's how I get to another element. Indeed, when prevention is no longer enough, it is unfortunately necessary to treat. For this, you need medicine. And I come to the Remdesivir scandal – an unsounding name – whose cost is unacceptable. Today, a dose of this medicine amounts to 390 euros while its cost is in the order of one euro. Minister, since we know that this drug has demonstrated its ability to reduce suffering, what are you going to do to ensure that we can have a stock of the drug? What are you going to do so we can get it at a reasonable price? The stock must be guaranteed without "taping" into social security, without "taping" into the citizens' portfolio. And, please, refuse merchandising with pharmaceutical companies that - I am sorry to say so - are putting their pockets at the expense of citizens at the expense of an international call for solidarity. We can also talk about the coronavirus vaccine. Where are we today in Belgium? We are talking more and more about the development of vaccines, whether in Belgium or Russia. What are the results of these vaccines? Tests are carried out in Russia. Where are we in Belgium with the CHU of Liège, which has just called for volunteers? What are the returns? What are your contacts with your European counterparts to ensure vaccination in the EU? Indeed, there is a race to the auction of each country to be the first to benefit from a vaccine. This raises the question of whether we will have the opportunity to obtain the vaccine when there is one. Will we be able to afford it and offer it to our fellow citizens? It's essential. It cannot be said that tomorrow, our citizens must choose between being vaccinated and offering their families a meal. That wouldn't be playable. In conclusion, I will tell you that you are facing a challenge for tomorrow. Citizens have shown that they are able to make sacrifices, but they need coherence and a clear signal. The challenge at the next NSC will be to regain public support. To that end, responsible, balanced and justified measures would have to be taken to restore him more freedom. For our fellow citizens are not irresponsible: they know their role and wait for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u11	In the meantime, I would like to return to the serological tests, Mr De Backer, as well as to the policy of testing and rapid testing in our country. Where are we? How many serological tests have been performed to date? Will Sciensano identify them in the same way as the PCR tests? Where are we with respect to their repayment? No changes have been made by the AFMPS since April 3. However, many tests - especially the fastest ones - have been validated. Your government has repeatedly ordered serological tests from Diasorin and ZenTech. This last undertaking has recently generated a lot of echoes. Indeed, she was waiting to be able to deliver the approximately 2 million tests she had manufactured, but never received the list of beneficiaries from you. In short, currently, no lab can claim to receive these tests. How do you explain it? What are you going to decide? These tests are known for their quality, efficiency, usefulness and speed. Dozens of countries have ordered them, but our country does not use them. Will they finally be used? If so, who will be the beneficiaries? Will they be paid to the firm? Or are you going to give it up? If so, please give us the reason. I believe that these tests would be very useful as we approach the school year and as many workers return from vacations spent here or abroad. Irrespective of the five-bubble, they will inevitably have met many people. We need to ensure that we do not get the virus back, through staff, in institutions for the elderly or the disabled. It would still be a big deal! Do you have a solution to offer? What steps do you take with respect to serological testing? Are you considering honouring the order at ZenTech?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u12	Madam President, I refer to my written questions. 55008075C, 55008115C, 55008116C and 55008114C. I hope I get a decent answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u13	I would like to add one more question on which I would like to clarify. It is about the immunity that pharmaceutical companies would have already obtained for the possible harmful side effects of the corona vaccine. My question is very simple, Madam Secretary. Is this the normal course of action? If so, for which products has this been used in the past? Have pharmaceutical companies, and in particular AstraZeneca, already obtained this immunity in Belgium? I'll leave the rest for my colleague. I specifically did not put my questions orally again in the hope of getting an answer to my questions. I wanted to limit the time and take account of the interpreters.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u14	I refer to my questions. 55008089C and 55008090C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u15	Finally, I have a question about reporting. Maybe that...... is literally the theory of relativity, in the sense that it is relativizing things. I'm not a COVID-19-negationist, but I don't want to cause panic either. If we compare the almost non-existent test capacity of this country at the start of the corona crisis with the considerable test capacity now, we have to admit that the absolute figures remain about the same order of magnitude. I sincerely wonder whether we can speak of a second wave. Should we not conclude that the figures at the beginning of the crisis were in fact a gross understatement, whereas they are now tending to overestimate? Wouldn't it be statistically fairer in reporting to set the number of positive cases against the total number of tests? Now the media often mention the number of tests, whereas according to Professor Barbé there are about 36% false positive results. I think that would be a bit more fair from a statistical point of view. It would, in my opinion, make my former professor of mathematical statistics less likely to have a heart attack if he saw that in the news.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u16	Madam President, I have tabled a number of questions concerning the contact tracing application. In the media some negative messages appeared about the company that would develop that app. I refer to my written questions. 55008020C and 55008047C and look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u17	- On what basis was this company selected and why was this company just selected? - What's the cost of the app? - How will it be ensured that the app does not contain an unsafe code that makes the user's device susceptible to hacking, and that the app does not contain a code that could harm the user's privacy? - How will the data collected by the app be processed? Who will have access to this data? - Will the comments of the GBA be taken into account in the app? - How long will the app last? - Will the app be entirely voluntary?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u18	Madam President, thanks to the various measures taken by the National Security Council, as well as by the various communes and regions, the contaminations associated with the second wave announced tend to stabilize or even decrease even though, unfortunately, the number of deaths is rising again. We are aware that limiting our social contacts to five people requires considerable effort but in view of the latest results communicated by Sciensano, we can clearly see that this decision is bearing fruit. Of course, we must continue to rigorously apply the six barrier actions that enable us to effectively combat the spread of the virus. We are convinced that a prudent exit from the crisis will also require the implementation of other mechanisms such as testing capacity and thus the massive screening of as many people as possible. This will also include the prediction of a sufficient stock of reagents to perform these tests and the optimal management of the stocks of drugs and antivirals that can best relieve patients. The current testing capacity would now be 90,000 PCR tests per day, some 45-55,000 of which could be performed by clinical biology laboratories. Minister, could you give us an overview of our testing capabilities at this time and the expected evolution of testing in the coming weeks? In order to be able to carry out these tests, we know that the issue of reagent stocks remains an essential element and is at the heart of the testing strategy. In this context, you mentioned that clear agreements had been reached with suppliers for the delivery of reagents in sufficient quantities to enable laboratories to assess their testing capabilities. Is that the case? Will the promised financial support be provided to hospitals so that they can fully assume their role? Still as far as testing is concerned, we are still in the summer period which rhymes with departures and holiday returns. Is it envisaged that travellers returning from countries classified in the orange zone will be subjected to systematic tests in order to combat the spread of the virus at best? With regard to the procedure to be followed by hospitals, it appears that the QR Code generated by SMS for people returning from risk areas, a code that invites them to be tested, must be manually copied by the health care staff. Can you assure us that the use of this QR Code works optimally and does not lead to a risk of error? Can you assure us that hospitals will be adequately equipped in the future in order to be able to read these QR Codes correctly? Could you give us an overview of the medication treatments that work best to fight the virus? Last March, the drugs listed by AFMPS were: Plaquenil, chloroquine phosphate, Remdesivir and Kaletra. In the meantime, have any other medicines proved their worth? If so, which ones? Will the stocks of antiviral drugs prescribed and used in this context be high enough to cope with a potential rebound in the epidemic? Finally, we were able to see last Saturday, when we read the Sciensano report, that almost 1,000 new cases had been announced. This figure can be anxiogenic if we do not put things in context, namely that the information that was transmitted to Sciensano by the various laboratories, was late. Are clinical laboratories required to bring the information back to Sciensano within a specified time frame? Is it true that if laboratories transmit their information late, they risk sanctions? So I come to my question about the request for assistance to insurers by part of the hospital network? For the latter, I will address Mrs De Block. The period of containment and the peak of the pandemic has created an exceptional situation in our hospitals, in two ways: in terms of the care that had to be given to patients VOCID-19, but also in terms of the postponement of a large number of care that was considered non-emergency. This delay has, according to some hospitals, resulted in significant savings for insurers. On the basis of these savings, a request was made. It aims to help insurers finance our hospitals. Could you tell me if you think it is correct that the postponement of hospitalizations and outpatient expenses actually resulted in savings for insurers? Considering that deferred care will anyway be provided in the coming weeks and months, do you think that an economy will still be achieved by insurers in 2020? In this case, do you consider aid from this sector to be feasible in order to financially support our hospital institutions? Have any contacts been made in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u19	Madam President, Madam Minister, I shall begin with questions to you. In the first wave, we have all seen the problems of aligning the hospital regulations at the federal level. Many hospitals used different regulations regarding patients. I wonder if we are prepared for the second wave to pass federal guidelines on to hospitals so that every patient in each region can receive the same care. Also in relation to mental health we saw that many patients were disappointed because they could not obtain their much-needed psychological care. For example, a teenage girl with an anorexia disorder who couldn't go anywhere for therapy passed VTM. For many patients with psychological distress, therapy is a thin thread between life and an act of desperation. That is why I believe that we need to make a strong commitment to mental health and be prepared to catch the second wave. Minister, the holiday period is coming to an end. A lot of travelers are coming back. Currently, laboratories are required to report their test results within 24 hours. Based on stories of acquaintances, however, I notice that it takes a lot longer. If patients apply for a test at a lab, they must wait two days before they can take a test. After that, it will take them another two days to obtain the results. So these patients are actually waiting four days for the test result. In my view, the target was 24 hours, as stated in previous meetings. Are the labs who have delayed the detection of hotbeds in our country being sanctioned? Previously, I asked why no test capacity is being deployed at our airports. In fact, I still believe that taking the test at airports can reduce the time between the test and the result. Since May, the test capacity has been high enough, so passengers can also be tested, even if it is only one tested person per bubble. However, the government has not yet taken any steps to this end. Can you explain to us why our test capacity is not deployed at airports? Madam and Minister, I have one final question for you both. Many working groups are currently working on the corona crisis. Every day the press publishes new names of working groups. That is why I would like to receive a schedule with an overview of the various working groups and their precise assignments. Every day a new name appears in the newspaper of a working group dealing with a certain challenge and I do not see the forest through the trees anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u20	I refer to my questions nos 55008100C, 55008101C and 55008099C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u21	The new medicine Remdesivir is promising in the treatment of certain forms of coronavirus and has recently received a European marketing authorisation. This medicine is produced by the famous firm Gilead. The company has just announced the price of this medicine, which amounts to no less than 2 000 euros, while the cost of production is only 6 euros. Gilead therefore clearly plays the game of shareholders and not of public health. Have you had any contact with Gilead regarding the price and availability of this medicine in Belgium? Will you, as usual, roll out the red carpet for the pharmaceutical industry and pay the high price as you did for Sofosbuvir, which is produced by the same company? Are you going to focus on public health and take an example of other countries such as Chile, Canada or Ecuador? Are you considering, as some associations such as Médecins du Monde ask, looking at the compulsory licensing tool, which we know can be extremely effective in lowering the price of the medicine? My second set of questions is for the two ministers to address the current state of the epidemic and our government's inability to put in place an effective testing, contact tracking and isolation strategy for potentially infected people, a strategy that must break the transmission chain. In my view, it is the population that is currently paying the high price for this government's inability, not only in terms of victims of coronavirus, but also in terms of hospitalization and restriction of our freedoms. Today, we continue to run behind events and the facts. Take for example the establishment of a testing village in Antwerp: this is of course an excellent initiative, but the decision to establish this village was taken at the end of July, when the epidemic was already increasing in Antwerp around 20 July. Such an initiative would be necessary today in Brussels, which is heavily affected by the epidemic. Why not take this kind of initiative in every major city in the country? Mr De Backer, you replied yesterday (on Twitter) that some of the answers were not within your competence but within the competence of the Regions. I found this answer rather scandalous because we know very well that in terms of testing, tracing, quarantine, many aspects are managed at the federal level. I am thinking, for example, of the Sciensano database - which is still not up-to-date and which is never updated in real time -, of the functioning of the laboratories or the sorting. We saw yesterday pictures of people who had to wait hours to get a test in Brussels hospitals. I am also thinking of the loss of income, which is a real obstacle to quarantine in some cases. It is therefore time to stop hiding behind each other's responsibilities. The public is tired of having to pay for the split of health care. You participate in meetings that require your expertise, but also in interdepartmental conferences and consultation committees. Finally, cooperation agreements also exist. I ask you to answer my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u22	Madam President, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are all very much in the second outbreak of COOVID-19. In all provinces there are local outbreaks, which we need to control very quickly. The National Security Council of 23 July decided to give local authorities more room for manoeuvre in managing the crisis. A roadmap provides for a set of measures that cities and municipalities can take in the event of an outbreak, taking into account the severity of the situation in their city or municipality. I can confirm that many cities and municipalities have already taken on their responsibilities. The National Security Council also provided for a series of measures to limit people's contacts and thus make them easier to trace, in order to limit the spread of the virus. Provincial Governor Berx used this to control the major outbreak in Antwerp. The number of infections is still high, but seems to stabilise and even decrease. Virologists are now very concerned about the situation in Brussels. Brussels introduced a general duty to mask the mouth, but virologists consider that this is insufficient to level the exponential increase. Is there any consultation with the Brussels-Capital Region on what additional measures are still needed to bring the crisis under control? Is the Region open to this? Apparently there is restraint in Brussels, because residents are tired of the corona measures. Is there any thought at federal, community or regional level about how we can continue to motivate our citizens to respect the preventive measures? This is absolutely necessary in view of the situation today, especially in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u23	Madam President, I would like to confine myself to a few main points. Firstly, I would like to thank those colleagues who have already taken up some of my questions on mental health. I would like to stress two things in this connection. The psychosocial support of our care staff, the psychosocial care path of which everyone recognises the importance, becomes all the more important, because many of the staff in our institutions are confronted with psychosocial problems, even very serious ones. The care barometer also shows that the level of chronic stress, not acute stress, of our care staff remains alarmingly high. This manifests itself in poor sleep, impaired concentration and headaches. I have two questions about this problem. How do you concretely roll out the promised programme in the field? Very diplomatically, this programme is not always visible on the ground, not even visible. A second question is about the psychosocial managers of the FOD, a function that many of us have discovered in recent months. How do they specifically support the psychosocial well-being of care workers in hospitals, residential care centres or in the outpatient care sector? A phone call is a start, but it's not enough. Madam Minister, thanks to my initiative, Parliament has provided additional resources for mental health care. Why aren't these resources being rolled out on the ground? Where does the implementation of the existing plans stop? The acceptance of the measures is extremely important, more every day. It is a long-term struggle and the public's support must be preserved. I hope that the next National Security Council will listen to behavioral psychologists if additional measures need to be taken. If not, it threatens to go the wrong way. Minister De Backer, I have a question for you regarding the test capacity. Our population deserves a clear, clear communication regarding the use of the test village in Antwerp or Ghent. On the social media you have already responded to the saga about the codes of the FPS that are coming or not coming and people are being sent around. Now saliva testing is being pushed forward as a potential alternative. You must make it clear to the public what this kind of test can or cannot yield. This also applies to the dogs of the Defense Department. Is this a useful alternative or not? Again, we need clear and clear communication. A captain on the ship, I'd say.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u24	Before giving the floor to Mrs Fonck, I propose to allow Mrs Gijbels – who has just joined us – to continue the speaking time allocated to her group. There were about two minutes left.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u25	I have put a whole series of questions to the ministers De Block and De Backer during the recess, because the COOVID-19 crisis has not yet let us go. I should like to refer to the written version of my questions. 55008051C, 55008054C, 55008057C, 55008059C, 55008067C, 55008086C and 55008095C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u26	On 8/8/2020 an article was published in The New York Times entitled "When Covid-19 hit, many older were left to die." The approach to the Covid-19 crisis in Belgium is not a good one here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u27	I have an additional question for Minister De Block about increasing polarisation in society about compliance with the corana measures and guidelines. It's like there are believers versus nonbelievers now. Some of them call into question the proportionality of the measures, others call into question the duty of masking and others defend real conspiracy theories in which, among other things, 5G technology and the Big Pharma play a role and even argue that viruses are not transferable because they would not live, which, of course, is not true at all. These nonsense stories can be laughed away, but we must not underestimate the influence they have on people who are in their bubble of social media and receive very little other information. According to the media, even contact seekers suffer from this, because people sometimes no longer trust public policy and no longer want to give information about their contacts. Minister De Block, as representatives of the people, we have the task of informing our constituents correctly, but as minister of health and general practitioner you also have the task of formulating a clear position and explaining it. Where have you been in that regard over the past few weeks? After all, there is great confusion among the population. There is also a need for more information about the orange zones from which people return. It is recommended to take certain measures, but nothing is mandatory. Shouldn't you clarify that? The support for the oral mask is starting to calve. Do our experts have a beaten-off vision on that? On the one hand, the WHO does not need mouth-makers, except in the event of an outbreak and then only in public transport and crowded places. This makes it more flexible. On the other hand, it is stricter, because it recommends that 60-plussers and persons with underlying health problems wear medical masks. Which direction do we go and what do our experts think about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u28	Ministers, we still have to control the infection clusters, but we also need to protect the most fragile ones, since the R factor remains above 1. Let me first plead for a series of proposals to improve the effectiveness of the overall strategic framework. Of course, the government and the NSC are communicating. However, there is a lack of understanding in some densely populated clusters and neighbourhoods. I therefore suggest another type of communication, more focused on proximity, where there are loopholes in the application of physical distancing and the wearing of the mask. Secondly, testing needs to be improved, which must be clearly more accessible and rapid, using a simplified procedure. You have decided, and it is good, that tourists returning from a red zone should no longer go through the treating doctor. I plead for the same provision for those returning from an orange zone. In addition, tested individuals should have access to the results themselves, using a code assigned to them. In this way, they could become aware of the results online and thus react more quickly. It would therefore save time in the testing procedure. I reiterate the importance of having the results available within 24 hours. The terms and conditions for clinical laboratories have just been changed – and that is a good thing. However, operationally, the results remain far too late. Finally, I would like to plead in favour of salivary levies by means of pipettes. I'm coming to my questions. A truck equipped for testing is stationed at the Crisnea Civil Protection barracks. It came back from a very effective operation, which was carried out in Italy. What is expected to mobilize it to activate sampling where necessary? Then, why aren't symptomatic small children being tested? As much as I understand it with regard to transmission between them – as it is unlikely – so much the risk within the family bubble is real, especially towards parents and older siblings. What about the testing of the parents of a small child who is symptomatic, but who is not known to carry VOCID-19? What about the decision on isolation and work? Questions also remain about the most vulnerable, particularly in nursing homes and other non-hospital institutions. Yes or no, are we going to re-screen the elderly and staff? Is there no longer any hindrance to the hospitalization of elderly people in nursing homes, especially since hospitals are not overcrowded? What about the return of general practitioners physically to nursing homes? It's crucial. Are he back in attendance to take care of patients? As far as digital tracing is concerned, what about the part of the cooperation agreement? Will it soon be concluded and available? Operationally, when will digital tracing really begin? Finally, as far as vaccination is concerned, has Belgium, through you, already reserved VOCID-19 vaccines? Have you done so in a Belgian or European context? As a reminder, a number of countries such as France, the Netherlands, Germany and Italy have already made strong commitments. It is not a question for Belgium to stay in a corner, isolated and devoid tomorrow by not having these vaccines available to patients and the general population. What about the availability of influenza vaccines?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u29	Madam President, first of all, I wanted to thank the Ministers for having responded positively to my and other colleagues' requests for a new topical debate on this health crisis. I think it was essential to take stock of the situation, particularly in the light of the decisions taken by the last National Security Council, which led to the misunderstanding, such as the lack of membership, of many of our fellow citizens, but also in the light of the return of holidays, the re-entry of classes and the forthcoming arrival of viruses with symptoms comparable to those of VOCID-19. The first issue that I would like to return to and which was one of the measures of the National Security Council is this famous social bubble that has been reduced from fifteen to five people. Two weeks later, it is clear that many of our fellow citizens do not seem to respect this rule, not only because it is difficult to bear in the long term, but also because the effectiveness of this social bubble is not based on scientific evidence. It is the experts themselves who say so. In fact, no other country has adopted such an approach. Madam Minister, I would like to know whether the effects of this social bubble have been properly assessed. To what extent is this social bubble being respected today? How could this be verified and monitored? Could the next National Security Council, announced this Thursday, decide to expand the social bubble? I would also like to return to the issue of the vaccine against coronavirus. It is well known that the WHO, but also some states such as Germany, have very cautiously welcomed Russia's announcement of a new vaccine as a major pump. What is the position of the Health FPS in Belgium in relation to this possible vaccine? Do we have clear information about the quality of this vaccine and the results of clinical trials? In case of positive results, does Belgium intend to pre-order doses and, if so, at what price and under what conditions? Some countries would have pre-ordered doses: do we know more? What are the conditions of these pre-orders? More generally, where are we today in relation to the research carried out in Europe, and in particular in Belgium, on the vaccine? How does our government support them? Finally, I wanted to go back to the essential question of increasing our testing capacity, addressed to Mr De Backer. Minister, we know your ambition to increase our testing capacity by 90,000 tests a day, which is obviously a good thing. However, we need to know more. In concrete terms, can you tell us whether the testing criteria will be expanded and under what conditions? Can you assure us that presymptomatic, asymptomatic, but also paucisymptomatic people (who have very few symptoms) will have access to these tests? Do you consider that the mayors play a proactive role in relation to a possible massive screening campaign? What would be their specific role in this case? How are laboratories coordinated and supported in the implementation of this increase in testing? Do you guarantee today that the test results will be obtained within 24 hours? This is essential and recommended by Sciensano, despite the fatigue of the teams specialized in laboratories. Some hospitals complain about the impossibility of stocking reagents and swabs due to delivery to the dropper. How do you explain this and what steps will be taken to address it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u30	Madam President, I will begin with a few figures, facts and figures. I will, of course, also pass it on to the committee. [[The presentation is projected on the screen]] Let me start at the beginning, at the testing. You can see here the evolution of the number of PCR tests we perform per day. You will also see a little less testing during the weekend and some clinical labs postpone new tests for a day. About 25,000 tests are still being carried out every day, because the epidemic is now moving from Antwerp to Brussels. In the daily reporting that Sciensano has been carrying out since the end of February, you can follow day by day how many tests are being carried out and what the positivity ratio is. You will see that there is a division between the tests carried out by the clinical laboratories and carried out by the national platform. Not counting, it's too many samples sent to the clinical labs and processed by the national platform. Those tests are counted in the results of the clinical labs. You can also see that there has been an increase in positivity since the end of July. This is partly due to the fact that extra tests have been carried out since then and that more people have started to present themselves with symptoms. The test strategy is to pick out the symptomatic individuals, identify as soon as possible who they came into contact with and then the most important, even more important, than the testing itself: the quarantine or self-insulation to take place at that time. It is essential to prevent the further spread of the virus. To Mrs Rohonyi, who asked me when the testing criteria will be extended, I will reply that the testing criteria for symptomatic people are already very broad, in any case much wider than in most other countries. This is how many people are allowed to be tested at their treating physician. Many asymptomatic and presymptomatic individuals are also tested. In this case, all high-risk contacts are tested. There are travellers from the orange and red zones. There are communities. It was also decided to test in a preventive manner the staff of nursing homes in communes in the red zone. In addition, most hospitals test each patient entering or leaving these hospitals, although there is no evidence that they can carry the virus. Very quickly a small comparison with other countries. In the Netherlands one can only get a test if one shows symptoms. Anyone returning from a risk area, an orange or red zone, can only be tested for symptoms. One should pass through the contact study and develop symptoms before testing. We are testing much wider than the Netherlands and this on the same criteria as in Germany, very focused. If we count that per head, we still test more. Last time I showed you those numbers. In the UK, the main focus is again on those who show symptoms. For asymptomatic cases, this is only done when there is an explicit demand from the government. In France, there is a wider scope for action. There are symptomatic patients but asymptomatic people can also be tested. Compared with France, the proportion of tests carried out in Belgium per thousand inhabitants is higher. We asked the Scientific Committee for an opinion. Testing is indeed a very important element of controlling the epidemic. The most essential part is that people should go into self-insulation and respect it. That is also a very clear scientific advice. If people test positive and go to work tomorrow, see friends or shop, this way the transmission will not stop. So people need to be quarantined. Of course, people also have to take responsibility for themselves. We're never gonna control the pandemic if we don't make sure people respect the rules effectively. Keeping distance where it can, wearing a mouth mask where it has to, washing hands thoroughly, if these rules are followed properly, each individual has the task of ensuring that the virus does not spread further. In its last opinion, the RAG has made it clear that carrying out tests among the general public at the moment, in an arbitrary way without a strategy, is not a good way to work. I would also like to raise one more point. There is often talk of division of powers. The preventive part of health care is definitely in that place. From the federal level, we have asked the question several times at the Inter-Ministerial Conference and called for additional capacity to be opened for steel extraction. It will also be necessary to anchor this with a view to autumn. Today we do 25,000 tests a day. By then, there'll be 50 to 70,000 a day. Then additional capacity is also needed. It cannot be expected that only the general practitioners will continue to do so. In May 2020, however, the GPs asked to test patients in the first line. However, it is soon established that there are a large number of them when testing capacity is increased, as we have seen in Antwerp. So there are other solutions to be sought. We also looked at how we can support this as a federal government. That was also my answer to Mrs Merckx's question on Twitter yesterday. A protocol agreement has been reached where we take part of our responsibility, with funding and support. But the lead must be taken at that level when it comes to setting up new steel collection centres. As far as the test villages are concerned, I am convinced that we should also start such test villages in other major cities, as happened in Antwerp. This way we can easily give access to the influx of patients. The inter-ministerial committee had taken the decision to begin preventive monitoring of staff in nursing homes. We have therefore asked the various agencies to prepare and communicate to us the places and names of the staff members to be tested. As was the case in April in nursing homes, we must give doctors who fall under the jurisdiction and control of agencies the opportunity to have the tests carried out in nursing homes. Several agencies have told us that they have not been informed of this decision and will resume contact with us after the holiday returns. That is the current situation on the ground. For our part, we strive to intensify and improve testing, but I believe that each entity must take responsibility. The test capacity is currently around 30,000 tests per day. As I have said several times in committee, we need 50,000 to 70,000 tests a day. We sat together with the labs and also with the suppliers of reagents and appliances, and I personally called the big players individually to come up with a solution that consists of different facets. The testing capacity of the clinical labs is being increased. From the federal level we have given an incentive between 5 and 10 million euros for the purchase of additional machines, a stock of reagents and other supplies. At the same time, we have asked the laboratories to build stocks of three months to be prepared for autumn. We have also made clear agreements with the suppliers about the reagents to be supplied based on the number of machines available to the clinical labs. That leads to the following situation. For reagents, we still have a global penuria, because overall there is still more demand than what companies currently produce in reagents. There are different types of machines, but I will give it concrete form to the closed systems for Belgium, where only one type of reagents, one type of test kit, can be used. Let me sketch it hypothetically. The labs are asking for 100 tests. Suppliers initially indicate that they can provide about 65 tests. That is the last number we have been able to push up. Over the past few weeks, I was able to increase this by my personal contacts with the suppliers, which allowed some suppliers to increase their supplies by 50 % to 250 %. Thus, the high rhythm of tests in the new outbreak can be maintained. Those are important interventions from the federal government. Some hospitals say they still face a shortage. They are, in a way, right, because they received only 65% of the equipment ordered. However, we negotiated a much higher number of reagents than a few weeks ago. That is why we have introduced a second component into our laboratory capacity. We have created a platform bis that will consist of the installation of equipment and reagents in university laboratories in seven locations across the country, with a view to carrying out a total of 40,000 daily tests. University laboratories will thus be in contact with an accredited clinical laboratory. We ourselves will invest EUR 50 million in machinery, reagents and personnel support measures. Machinery and reagents have already been ordered and are expected to arrive in Belgium within the next four or six weeks. By the end of September, we will be able to perform between 80,000 and 90,000 daily tests. The number of triage centres remains very important. To take the samples, we need effective manpower. There are several options for this. Before I elaborate on this, I would like to make the following observation. Over the last few weeks, we have been negotiating with the suppliers to see if we can meet them. We have built up a stock for the national platform. We have placed orders for wipers and tubes. We have ordered about three million wipers and we already have a million in stock at the moment. For the tubes, production will take place on Belgian territory for the federal platform, but also for emergency deliveries to hospitals with a possible stock breach. The university of Liège will start its own production from mid-September onwards. With all these measures I may not have made the paper, Mrs Depoorter, but it has been worked on. The results at the end of the ride are more important than how many times one has been on TV with one's head. As far as triage points are concerned, when the first wave was over, I am taking Brussels out now, but it is playing all over the country, and it has begun to close triage points. That's a logical reaction, because they got a lot less patients. However, the protocol agreement clearly states that any triage point that temporarily closes must be able to be restarted within 48 hours. As you can see from mid-June, for example, there were only three of the 12 triage centres in Brussels. The activity of the sorting centres in Brussels has decreased sharply, which has created a problem because people sometimes have to wait two to four days before accessing the testing because of the lack of people on the ground to carry out the sampling. At the interdepartmental committee a few weeks ago, we asked to reopen the sorting centres as soon as possible. It is essential that people be able to get tested. The capacity of laboratories is already very high. It is therefore necessary to have the ability to make the samples. You can see that the situation is improving. In the meantime, most sorting centres have reopened. These new sorting centres are often linked to national platforms because the capacity of laboratories in Brussels is under heavy pressure. Here too, the federal level has helped the sorting centres to reopen and establish a link with the national platforms to accept part of these tests from the laboratories and directly from the sorting centres to carry out more tests in Brussels. These steel extraction centres are becoming an essential element. We strongly advocated that everyone should do their part of the work within the framework of the agreed protocol, clearly defining the powers between the Regions and the federal government. The triage centres must be open as quickly and as widely as possible, even wider than they already are today. Different elements must come together. Once there are enough triage centers, there are more possibilities. If there are large test villages in the big cities, where people can also be tested without symptoms, there can be wider testing. During the consultation with the agencies, we also explicitly asked whether there was an interest in preventive screening. The answer was in the affirmative, but then when the question was asked how many staff were available, the answer was: "Very little." Here too, regional capacity needs to be developed before preventive screening can begin. My vision of this is very clear: we are building up laboratory capacity and steel extraction capacity. Codes need to be able to be written more and more automatically. This evolution is already underway, allowing people to be tested without the intervention of a general practitioner. In this way, the laboratory and steel extraction capacity can also be better managed. For example, a certain percentage of laboratory capacity can be used for preventive testing in schools or universities. There is the classic steel extraction via the throat or nose wiper. In addition, there are also new forms of steel extraction. We have been working on this since April and I have explained it several times in this committee. For example, there is the sample collection via saliva, and I would like to make it clear once again that this is not a quick test. Once the saliva has decreased, the test will carry out exactly the same procedure in a laboratory as any other sample sample. The steel extraction itself can therefore be somewhat accelerated, but this does not fundamentally affect the follow-up to the procedure. For example, by means of a saliva test, preventive testing can be carried out. Another possibility is 'pooled testing'. In addition, there is a reduction of saliva for example in a group of people. Those samples are tested together, so you only need one test. If 1 out of 5 or 6 samples is positive, people can be tested individually. There have been studies since April. In May and June many patients participated in such a saliva test. The results are satisfactory, although the tests are fundamentally less sensitive. People with a very low virus charge won't test positive. I was asked why the supercontaminant figures were not sent. With salivary tests, we're gonna lose people who aren't very infected. It may be less important for screening, but it is in case of individual diagnosis. We have asked the RAG to give an opinion on how to use the different types of sampling, so that we can move forward in this area. In any case, you now know how I see things. We need to increase the number of triage centers. There must be large test villages in larger cities. There must be good management by passing the GPs and automatically giving codes to be tested, and thus also being able to carry out preventive screening if sufficient people can be put on the ground by the regional authorities. I come to the information about hospitals having problems with certain codes. In July we made several communications to hospitals and triage centres. There is now also a website on which everything is specifically listed for general practitioners, triage centers and hospitals with information about what is expected of them when someone arrives for sampling. All these elements have been in place for a long time. I have a strong feeling that a limited group of organisations have a great deal of difficulty in adapting to it and that many discussions result from it. On the other hand, in recent weeks, we have refined the process further, for example when giving activation codes or to better organise IT flows. The results to be received within 24 to 48 hours remain of course very important. I'll give you the road that a steel has to take. They're taking a sample. That has to be picked up by a lab, which usually happens once to twice a day. Then the steel must be registered. For this, everything was fully automated, allowing this to be handled entirely within the IT solutions of general practitioners, hospitals, triage centers and labs. The analysis of a steel usually takes between six and ten hours. We asked to send the results to Sciensano within the hour after validation. Part of the labs do this, too. The national platform does this from the start. So it's possible. We have put pressure on the labs to make that step as short as possible. Then there is the possibility for a general practitioner and patient to look at these results. Ms. Fonck asked for quick access to the results. The patient can consult them on gozo.be. If he waits for his generalist to inform him, then it is important that he also access it on his computer, including during the weekend. It is normal that everyone may not work every day, but this sometimes involves a period of one or two days before the patient is informed. In any case, the tracing contact is already started when the results are communicated by the lab to the Sciensano database, which then transmits them to the contact centres. We have also been transparent in this. On the website corona-tracking.info you will find all information about which labs comply with the agreed results. You can see that a large part of us are absolutely doing this. There's still a part that doesn't match this. First we asked politely, then we put a little more pressure. Next week we will see whether sanctions should not be imposed for those who fail to pass their results on to the Sciensano database at least once a day within 24 hours. This database transmits data four to five times a day to the contact center and thus briefly the time between the detection of the infection and the contact trails. I also briefly referred to the saliva tests. The study has been completed. There's gonna be an opinion from the RAG. The sensitivity is lower. Unfortunately, we don't live in a perfect world. Here we have to balance sensitivity in screening and diagnostics per person. As far as serology is concerned, as I mentioned earlier, the tests we have secured (i.e. the tests validated by the AFMPS, which are CE marked and which are available for the market) can be purchased by the laboratories and are available for the Belgian market. However, we do not require any laboratory to use this type of test. Each laboratory is free to use a test with or without CE marking for serological testing. These serological tests are available for every citizen, all you have to do is ask his general practitioner. The test is largely reimbursed by mutual care for the health care staff. I think I have answered most of your questions, Mrs Tillieux. As far as ZenTech is concerned, this is a quick test. I hope I misunderstood your question, because it would imply that you have confused serological test and PCR test: the PCR test detects the presence of the virus. A person tested positive with a PCR test must be quarantined as he/she remains contagious. A person with antibodies (...) The role of serological testing is completely different. The tests offered by ZenTech are fast tests, which exist on the market. Initially, we were confronted with a problem of quality of the different batches, so we asked to re-evaluate these tests. We are negotiating with each company a reduction in volumes and prices, as serology has changed significantly since the beginning of April and the market is much more open than before. I therefore believe that we must reflect and no longer rely on the Royal Decree of 17 March. On the contrary, we must open the market and propose more tests with CE marking. Safety has been achieved, and laboratories and patients alike have access to this type of testing. The market is now open and I think there are no further problems in this regard. I insist on the difference between the serological test and the PCR test. Using ZenTech tests to test students in schools will not determine whether some people are still carrying the virus or contagious. It is essential to distinguish between the two types of tests. After six months, everyone in this committee has become a sort of expert on the subject and should therefore talk about correct things. On this slide you will see the state of play with regard to the PPE's. At present, a decentralised strategic stock of more than 100 million units has been distributed to primary care. Orders are still coming in, both from surgical masks and FFP2 masks. We will continue to build up these stocks. That is the situation at the moment, but these figures will increase even further in the next two or three weeks. A survey of the various domes is also being carried out to determine which specific protective materials they still need. We expect an answer to this by 20 September and then we can look at whether the federal stock is sufficiently large, but it is the intention that we also see on the market that for most, if not all, protective materials the market is functioning relatively well again. There was a small question, also last meeting, if there is another problem with the gloves. We have found a lot of suppliers in 24 hours who were able to deliver the right type of gloves and we have also passed that information on to the people on the premises. There are sometimes anecdotal cases that turn up, but they also get solved quickly. I always compare this with the following: if you want to buy tomatoes and you walk into a certain supermarket, but the tomatoes are sold out there, doesn't mean there are no more tomatoes. Often another supermarket has 100 meters further perhaps enough tomatoes and so it is also worth a look there. That is exactly what happened here, so that the information about where certain types of materials can be purchased is also freely available. That way the first line can get back to work. As you know, the tracing is a regional competence, so I shall go into that briefly. All procedures on what to do with people returning from vacation are on the website of Sciensano and on the website corona-tracking.info that I have just mentioned. People returning from red areas receive a text message with an activation code that allows them to be tested directly. Each sorting centre or hospital has been able to do this since mid-July. They asked how many people were tested and what the positivity ratio was. You will see that just over half of the people returning from a red zone are tested, more in the Flemish region than in Brussels or in the Walloon region. So we really need to ensure that more people are tested in Brussels and Wallonia. There must also be follow-up via regional contact tracing. I still hear that there is a call asking why some people have still not been tested after one or two days. You can see significant differences between regional authorities. For Flanders, the figure is about 72%, for Brussels, 50% and for Wallonia 53% of the people who have been tested. The positivity ratio is, as you can see, not particularly high, which is about as high as in June and early July, when the virus had partly left us, i.e. about 1.5 % or at least below 2%. The app is being worked on, but I also have to refer to the regional authorities, which set up the app through the inter-federal committee. That makes sense. Following a public tender, a contract was awarded, which contains all the elements, as I have outlined here, to make that app work. I think most of the questions have been answered and I hope I have not exceeded the speaking time allocated to me too far. I'll see if I can get into some specific issues. As far as testing is concerned, I think I have answered most of the questions. On drugs, Remdesivir et al., permanent monitoring is conducted by AFMPS on drugs in a clinical trial. When the results are published, the AFMPS, in a European context also as is the case for the Remdesivir, acts and tries to secure part of this production for Belgium. I've been talking about the contagion levels of the red and orange zones. I also talked about the salivary testing. I believe that I have answered most of the questions. If there are any questions or additional information left, I am always available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the committee, I have heard a lot of talk about communication. It is true that in our country many people also use the right they have to communicate. This is not easy for citizens. However, I believe that we should continue to be able to use freedom, which is already very restricted at the moment, to talk. These aren't easy times. We are evolving from a communication directed against the consequences of the COVID-19 virus to a communication about the policy with the presence of this virus in our daily lives. That virus isn't gone. It won't just disappear in the next few months. Our policy must now be to do everything in our power to deal with COVID outbreaks. That's what we've been doing the last few weeks. We have worked hard on this together with the Länder, so that less radical measures must be taken for the whole country or for a whole province. Unfortunately, it has proved necessary in Antwerp. I remember the last time people from the Kempen, like Mrs Van Camp, told us that they didn't get it explained to their locals because they had barely any positive cases. That is why the governor has quickly relaxed a number of measures. She is also following the situation very closely. There has always been a lot of consultation. Both my colleague De Backer and I have always offered help, just like the FPS Public Health, our people who have always jumped in, the FAG and everyone who has been involved for months in the measures being investigated and developed by the RIZIV. So we are indeed talking about a second wave, which came earlier than expected. It is also a very different wave, as also confirmed by the people of Sciensano. The situation in the last month is not the same as in March of this year. They're other people who are now infected, mostly younger people. It is often asymptomatic infections that are passed on to other generations. There were also infections in specific populations now. Each cluster shall be examined by the regional authorities. There is also regular consultation between Sciensano and the regional authorities to exchange information on clusters. Direct communication has therefore been made to target groups, including by the Länder. Other opinions were also given, such as the opinions of Sciensano. Mrs. Gijbels, I'll give you the link. There were so-called hygiene advice for patients with COVID-19 who were isolated at home. RAG opinions have also been given. In children, there appears to be another transmission of the virus. A theme report on COVID-19 and children was published on the website of Sciensano on 14 August 2020. An ECDC report on children was published at the beginning of August. It is, of course, important that if we get a re-opening of the schools within 14 days, we know what the role of the children is in the contagion and in the transfer they can give. I will provide the answer in writing. There's another security council on Thursday. There, as always, we are beginning to discuss the epidemiological situation with Mrs Quoilin, chairman of the RAG, but she also has a great deal of responsibility at Sciensano. Then it is discussed what with for example the bubble of five, what with the schools, what with shopping. There'll be a whole agenda. A meeting will be held with the prime ministers. Then a number of measures will be taken again, either reduced or increased. There's been a lot to do about the mouth masks. Mr Rigot, you asked me for my opinion on the obligation to wear the mask. The Celeval Expert Group gave an opinion on the matter. The Committee recommends that the area concerned and the period during which the wearing of the mask is mandatory be clearly displayed. That opinion must be respected. This rule does not prevail everywhere, since the health situation differs from one municipality to another. Communication campaigns have been developed by the federal and federated entities. The federal campaign aimed to "share the right reflexes, not the virus", with the aim of motivating citizens to observe all the measures - including wearing the mask, physical distance and hand hygiene. An online and offline campaign entitled "11million times.be" was launched on 12 August. It is structured around the portrait of nine citizens, each presenting their own motivations in photographs. The idea is that every Belgian has at least one good reason to continue to follow the six golden rules against the coronavirus. The campaign invites everyone to share their personal reason, in answer to the question: "And you, why do you respect the rules?" It will also be broadcast in the form of posters, newspaper inserts and television and radio spots. It will be relayed by influencers. I will not tell you that the website info-coronavirus.be contains all the information about wearing the mask and includes a list of the most frequently asked questions. In addition, this information is available in 34 languages, including sign language. Mr Rigot and Mrs Rohonyi, you asked me questions about the five-person bubble. This decision was taken on 26 July by Celeval in Opinion No 64. This limitation of the number of persons with whom a household can maintain contacts, decided by the National Security Council, was inspired by simulations and models developed by the departments of the University of Antwerp and the University of Hasselt, indicating that the restriction of the number of contacts outside the household can have a major impact on the number of hospitalizations. I understand that it is a difficult measure for every family. However, it was important to maintain the measure for a time to stop the number of new infections and the spread of the virus. The National Security Council will certainly continue to consider whether we should continue with the measure. After all, the number of new infections is only slowing down just last week, and the number of hospitalizations may not increase exponentially, but caution remains necessary. Mrs Tillieux, Mr Creyelman and Mrs Depoorter asked questions about vaccines. On possible vaccines against COVID-19, a very comprehensive reply to a question from Mr Bombled has already been received by the Committee on 2 July. That answer remains topical. I hear here that people think that other countries have a different strategy. This is the same situation for the Netherlands, Italy, Germany and France: there is a team of negotiators who are in charge of negotiations with companies. A steering committee, in which we are represented, follows that. So far, the European Commission has concluded one agreement, namely with AstraZeneca. All Member States, including Belgium, will have five days to decide whether to join or opt out. That procedure was agreed in the European Commission and agreed by all Member States. A scientific committee of vaccineologists and others has now been set up. We will look at that in the next few days and determine the position of Belgium. A price has not yet been mentioned, Mrs Depoorter. It goes without saying that when the vaccine arrives, Belgium will invest in it. There is also consultation with the Länder to what extent this can be introduced into their vaccination planning. Furthermore, negotiations are ongoing, including with Johnson and Johnson, and I assume many others. Negotiations with Johnson and Johnson could soon be knocked off. We are kept informed of this on a daily basis. Mrs. Depoorter, the inter-federal plan is what it is, an inter-federal plan. That is not a final document, it is a living document, because the sanitary situation is evolving every day. Until yesterday there was still consultation with the Länder on this matter. They have been able to complement this and to give substance to the way in which it is operated. That was scheduled at the IMC tomorrow, after which it will find its way with implementation and operationalization. In view of the fragmentation of powers and the lack of clarity at the beginning of the crisis, we thought it appropriate to include this in an inter-federal plan: who does what at the next wave? It's not just about the second wave, there might be a third, a fourth, a fifth... so the plan has to be dynamic and adaptable. Mrs Van Camp, Mrs Depoorter and Mr Bertels, you asked questions about psychological support for the care staff. There is €16.7 million for the extension of mental health care. An additional amount of some 11 million is intended to support the care professions. That is now being implemented. The plan Mental Health Care does not remain awaiting a government formation; that is also what we are implementing now. The psychosocial managers of the FPS play a coordinating role in this regard. The preparation of the psychosocial support of affected people is a crucial element in this process. The managers themselves are not an aid provider, but rather the managers of the aid. This was launched at the end of March, shortly after the first outbreak, so that cooperation could be promoted and the communication and initiatives of existing services and bodies working on psychosocial themes in the broad sense of the word could be streamlined. From the beginning of the work, care personnel were identified as a specific target group. There was cooperation with the Red Cross and the Flemish government. There was also the questioning of HealthcareTogether Barometer. First aid training in mental health problems has been developed. The Red Cross, the FPS Public Health and the Flemish government have also developed an online rapid course for psychosocial aid workers or for people who are responsible in their organisation for the care of their staff. The Centre for Crisis Psychology of Defence, together with the psychosocial managers, has produced a webinar that deals more deeply with the psychosocial burden on the care staff, also aimed at HR employees, service heads, management, administrative staff and all those who feel involved. All information on the mentioned initiatives and actions will be made available on the websites of the FPS Public Health, the Red Cross and other partners and actors in the health and welfare sector. The psychological function in the first line is also strengthened. An injection is given specifically for hospital staff in such a way that hospitals can recruit additional staff for one year to keep psychosocial support on the arrow or, where necessary, strengthen it. This is being worked out by the services, of course in consultation. Mrs H annoyance, you say that it is difficult to complete the PLF. I filled it myself because I took three days of vacation in the Netherlands. It took me two minutes on my iPhone and two minutes to complete my husband's PLF. I really think it's not difficult. If you are told that, you have to ask exactly what the difficulties are. We get Paloma's dashboard every day. Paloma, it is this dashboard that tells us how many people are returning from red, green and orange areas, whether by car, bus, train, boat – there are not many – and by plane. Sunday, for example, 18,000 people were returning from an orange zone. The dashoboard is well completed and includes even green area returns. It is a very useful instrument and has been developed in less than two weeks. Mr. Rigot, you say the key is testing. The key is mostly quarantine to interrupt the spread chain of the virus. There is still work to be done because we see that not all those returning from a red zone have performed a test. One might wonder if they will also be quarantined. We can see that there are differences between the regions. We can still improve the system everywhere, especially in some regions. The Remdesivir raised a number of issues, including Mr. Rigot and Ms. Merckx, who were already appearing in the newspapers with his question. For the moment, there are temporary results. There is a beneficial effect in patients who have severe symptoms and are on respirator. This is why the European Agency, EMA, has granted a temporary licence for the market. At the beginning of July, therefore, a temporary conditional market licence was issued under the name Veklury. For the same reason, through its Emergency Support Instrument, the European Commission has signed a contract with Gilead to provide initially sufficient medicines for 30,000 patients. Belgian patients will also be able to be treated through this programme. In the meantime, the European Commission is preparing a joint purchase to meet the further needs from October onwards. Indeed, there are contacts with Europe and the company to ensure that Belgian patients also have access to the therapy, but it is and remains a conditional market licence granted by the EEA. Further monitoring remains necessary. Additional data on the safety and efficacy of the medicinal product are required. So I remain careful with predictions and do not want to draw premature conclusions. The actual value of this medicinal product in the approach to COVID-19 remains to be seen. Mrs Merckx, if we are talking about a reasonable price, it must indeed be proportionate to the therapeutic added value of the medicinal product. In order to ensure that the treatment will be widely and financially accessible, we will therefore base ourselves on the proposals of the experts in the Committee on Medicinal Products. They will take all aspects into account, but once again, they cannot continue with the information available so far. The possibility of a compulsory licence is not currently being examined. In the current context, with the information that is now available and the uncertainties that still exist, this is not the case for the time being. Mr Rigot, the drug Veklury has not yet been included in the list of essential drugs under the VOCID-19, which are subject to certain measures to ensure their availability, because it was not authorised at the time of the last amendment of this list and to date it has not been placed on the market. The measures currently applicable to the medicinal products on this list provide for controlled distribution with quotas imposed and, where appropriate, instructions for optimal distribution of the medicinal product. This medicine is only made available through a strategic stock and not through the normal circuit, which makes these measures superfluous. Hospital pharmacists can obtain it when a patient meets the requirements for treatment in the hospital in accordance with Sciensano's recommendations. The practical arrangements on this subject will be sent by the AFMPS to all hospital pharmacies. There are therefore many unknowns about the use and availability of remdesivir. Mr Creyelman, you are inspired by the information from Russia about the Sputnik vaccine. The European Medicines Agency and by extension the FAGG have not received any applications concerning the Russian vaccine. No one has access to the data on the effectiveness, safety and quality of the vaccine and we cannot make any statements about it. The scientific data are strictly confidential and are evaluated by the Russian competent authorities in the context of an application for market access. There are indeed several vaccines all over the world at the same stage or even further, particularly in phase three, but you know that we must respect the European legislation in force. As a Member State, we work together with the European Commission and the European Medicines Agency to have an effective and safe vaccine for COVID-19 available in good time, like all other countries. Last time, I gave a comprehensive answer to what is possible and what is allowed and what is happening in the European Commission. I have already answered your questions about the first and second wave, Mr Creyelman. Mrs Farih, you are talking about visiting arrangements in hospitals that may differ. Each hospital must, of course, guarantee the safety of the patients and can therefore take the necessary measures. These may vary from hospital to hospital and from residential care centre to residential care centre depending on their capacity, space and possibilities. Of course, we insist that there should be an optimal provision of care and the same quality of care everywhere. With regard to airports, there are calls between Brussels Airport Company (BAC), Public Health and other actors, as the regions are of course responsible for regional airports. It is not obvious to set that up. We are also looking at how this happens in other countries. Nothing happens in the Netherlands. Some things are happening in Germany and Luxembourg. There are also contacts to see how this can be set up. How are the travelers going to deal with this? If one will have to submit a test result on departure or on arrival, then a few hours will make a difference in the planning. So we certainly need to think carefully about this possible measure. Mrs De Jonge, you raised the question of whether any further measures will be announced for Brussels. As with Antwerp a while ago, more attention will now be paid to the epidemiological situation in Brussels. The Consultative Committee will meet at 4 p.m. today. The National Security Council will then take decisions which could be interesting and which measures should be taken. Then it is up to the Prime Minister of Brussels to discuss with the 19 mayors what measures will have to be taken. I think it is clear that what is now decided will not produce spectacular results. We must wait two weeks, which should not prevent us from taking stricter measures. Mrs Depoorter, you also had a question, No. 55008064C. We'll get you the answer to that, too. I talked about the phasing out of the flu vaccines last time. Mrs. Sneppe, you had questions about immunity. In the negotiations with the European Commission, immunity is requested. It is, of course, a difficult subject. This kind of immunity is not given just like that. The responsibility of any side-effects, malfunctioning, or other matters that may arise before, is an important part of these negotiations. The discussions on this matter are still ongoing in the steering committee's lap. You have also put a question about the exhaustion of care providers. I have already said that there are actions in progress regarding psychological care. There is also a lot of consultation with the sharing entities responsible for the organisation of the care. The FOD and the RIZIV jump in for support of the first line. Triage centers are being started, anything that can be supported at the level of that first line. There is an ongoing research of health professionals, not only on seroprevalence, but also on the well-being of healthcare professionals. The relevant form must be completed. For each test it is adjusted so that we will know if the test was taken for a health worker. Then there's the barometer tool that gives us data on the absence of general practitioners. This data can also be collected via a form in the Electronic Medical File based on the demand for the number of general practitioners absent. We have daily data for the period 19 March to the end of May and weekly data from June to the present. In general we see that between 2 and 6 % of the general practitioners are not reported. Before mid-April, the percentage of absent general practitioners was between 3% and 6%. Afterwards it remained below 3 %. Of course, it is possible that this is due to other conditions. The data collection is voluntary. In solo practice, there was no report if the only doctor was absent, which could lead to an understatement. Under the current legislation, laboratory nurses and technicians also have the right to take samples. They can join the general practitioners, particularly in the context of the triage and purchasing centres. Agreements with home care consortia, both in home care structures and self-employed nurses, are also being concluded in the RIZIV. The intention is to have 1 consortium per province that can intervene, inter alia, at the request of the triage and purchasing centres. This should help these centres to find nurses who are willing to support these centres. Mrs Gijbels' questions about compensation for the ASOs are important because they are very topical. The doctors-specialists in training have indeed helped massively to ensure the continuity of care. They therefore deserve the greatest respect. Measures have also been taken several times. It was decided at the beginning of the crisis that internships in disciplines that saw their activities reduced, the basic fees to their ASOs still had to pay further. Their wages had to be paid. Most of them were involved in COVID-19 care over time. KB's draft on the regularisation of hospital advances provides for an exceptional financial intervention in the form of an additional budget per hospital for the reimbursement of the many additional hospital costs and for the additional activities of the healthcare providers whose activities are normally reimbursed by fees. This design of KB builds on the advice received from the Federal Board of Hospital Services and the Medicomut mixed group for the part fees. A dozen meetings were held in this area. So they didn't go over a night of ice cream. The extra budget is made up of various components. For the ASO section, the design of KB stipulates that this budget should be used for a fair remuneration of the ASO. We also provide a basic remuneration for all ASOs active in hospitals. All ASOs taking care of permanences or waiting during weekends should be compensated for this. Consultations were also planned when, following a press release, I found that the VASO had been misinformed about that design of KB. Consultations were held with the ASO associations to clarify this principle and to resolve the misunderstandings. The KB's draft does not deliberately express any opinion on the level of the waiting fee, as this issue is dealt with in the National Joint Committee on Medicine and Hospitals. For this reason, the wording 'fair waiting fee' was chosen. There were also sufficient guarantees to ensure compliance with the objectives when spending the additional budget. In each hospital, the Medical Council, in which the ASOs are also represented, advises on the use of the additional budget. In addition, each hospital will have to report to the federal government on how the additional budget was used for each of the activities and target groups included in the design of KB. The design of KB is currently being prepared. Advice was sought from the various bodies concerned and the Council of State. In the National Joint Committee on Medicine and Hospitals, negotiations are continuing on a proper remuneration for the ASOs in general, outside the context of the current crisis. It has also already been ensured that the ASOs who were temporarily recruited in other departments due to COOVID-19, which are included in the internship plans as part of the training. We have taken this measure immediately. Furthermore, there is the Ministerial Decree of 30 April 1999, which does indeed regulate the basic remuneration of the ASOs. Article 5 provides that the fair remuneration shall be at least equal to the gross wager of a deputy adviser in the federal civil service framework, on equal seniority. A great deal is therefore rightly being done for the doctors-specialists in training. Efforts have also been made for the HAIOs. I have dealt with Mr Bertels' questions. Mrs Gijbels, about the measures you say there are believers and non-believers. Everything's like that. That's true for vaccination, that's true for measures. Everything is new, including the measures, but most people seem to follow the measures. For those who are hard learners, enforcement policy remains important. Mrs Fonck, some sick and symptomatic children are too young to be tested because, as you know, pediatricians have asked not to test children under the age of three. Other pediatricians say that the tests performed on children between the ages of three and six do not have much added value. A child who is ill, who is probably carrying the virus and whose parents have been tested represents a high-risk contact, so it must be possible to test it. Your question, however, contains a mistake in that you say that the four countries bordering Belgium take a different position from ours. The four countries that initially formed an alliance and joined together in the consortium are in the same situation as Belgium: they also undertook not to negotiate, not to reserve vaccines and to comply with the rules laid down by the European Commission. We look forward to the same situation as those countries. Ms. Taquin, you have asked me a pertinent question about hospitals, but I cannot yet provide you with much of the answer because we do not yet have an idea of the extent to which deferred care will be recovered, the period up to which the care that has to be carried over will be taken over, and the cost and accounting of insurers. You know that there is a delay of two months before we set out the figures for mutuality. However, I shall return to your question in due course. It is still too early to have a clear view of the situation, but Mr. De Cock's on it. In the meantime, however, we are seeing a slow increase in the number of hospitalizations. This allows us to continue to provide care that is not part of the coronavirus, as well as care that has been postponed. I am pleased that, for the time being, no care services have been closed to increase capacity for VOCID patients. And I hope that we will no longer have to take the measures that we had to take in the emergency plan during the first wave. Mrs Gijbels had put a question on waste water. I will give the answer in writing, as it is rather long and technical. It is true that this is going on about the waste water. The reply also explains, among other things, which water stations are involved. Mrs Tillieux, you asked me about trackers dogs and you had already asked questions about them. A number of studies highlight the potential of the use of sniffing dogs in the detection of the virus. A working group has been set up, the "COVID et animaux du Risk Assessment Group", RAGCA, on this issue. There is a study currently being conducted by the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine of the University of Liège. Once it has been finalized and the preconditions for the effective use of sniffing dogs have been established, the services will take the necessary steps to implement this possibility in collaboration with the authorities concerned. There are also owners of snooping dogs from the police who are interested in that. It is now a crucial moment in the second wave. We must avoid further contaminations and further re-flames, hence the increase in the number of tests, for which Mr De Backer is making a great deal of effort. The quarantine measures must of course also be respected; there must be sufficient protective material. In addition, the funding measures continue for the triage centres, for home care and for all those involved. Of course, we are also making an extra effort with regard to people who have been travelling and with regard to people from abroad who come to work with us, for example seasonal workers. Special attention is paid to this and also to meat processing. New groups of workers are being added to the list. I think I've dealt with most of the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u32	Mrs De Block, Mr De Backer, you have far exceeded the time allotted to you, but I think – seeing the silence in the room – that everyone was interested in the latest developments in the VOCID-19 file. I heard your alarm. It's 4:00. If so, if you had another ten minutes, we could have the Members react. That would still be interesting. Do you have ten more minutes?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u33	No, because we both have to participate in the consultation committee, which is starting now. Having said that, we can still answer some questions and requests for clarification in writing this week. That is no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u34	We therefore consider that you are prepared to answer the written questions that we would file within the week. If my colleagues agree, then we could close the meeting. I have no doubt that there will be many questions in response to your presentation. Therefore, should we not schedule a future meeting? I think we are all somewhat frustrated by the impossibility of replying. Could we schedule a meeting next Tuesday? Are ministers available?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u35	It's hard for me, but I'll try.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u36	We can even meet in the morning or another day of the week. We will deal with this issue with the committee secretariat, so that we can quickly hold a forthcoming meeting and not remain hungry, as is the case today. I thank you, all of you, for your presence, for your interest in this issue and the follow-up to the pandemic, which remains, despite everything, well present — even if the second wave was not the one that could have been predicted. Be careful, continue to respect physical distancing measures and, above all, take care of yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u37	Madam President, I wish to protest formally that we have not been given any opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u38	Madam President, I've been waving my hands around here for five minutes! I'd like to do the same. I don't think this is a way to work. The Ministers have both taken ample time to reply, which means that we no longer have the opportunity to reply. Just in the reply some points are made and some questions that were not answered are re-examined. I do not agree that the ministers have managed their time well. We ourselves have tried very hard to manage our time and to ensure that we stay within the few allocated minutes. In future, I would like to give a reply to the ministers so that we can go to the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u39	Colleagues, I would like to nuance this. When I asked for an extra minute at the beginning of the session, a number of groups and you, Madam President, did not allocate it. You have that right, just to be clear. I have noticed that we have gone well over 2.5 seconds. For a number of groups that was minutes, I have noted that. I won't put names on it. The guilty know themselves. A certain fraction has passed 2.40 minutes, another fraction 1.08 minutes, another fraction 1.07 minutes. Three groups have remained within their time. With a little good will I can count on the Flemish interest with three seconds. It is difficult to blame the ministers, who have gone a long way over time, if we do not manage to stay within our time. I would like to call on colleagues to stay within their time, so that we can ask the ministers to do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u40	Madam President, I had tabled nine questions, five of which remain open without an answer. It can't be for me. We need to be able to go a little over time to ask them. The questions that were put were very pertinent. Just in a second round, we can raise with additional questions which have not yet been answered. I wonder where the meeting has served, just a statement by the ministers, nothing else.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u41	Thank you for your feedback. I'm just as disappointed as you are that I can't do this second round. It is the very foundation of the parliamentary function to be able to reply to ministers in the exercise of parliamentary control. Nevertheless, we are in a somewhat special situation where the timing imposed on ministers prevents us from continuing our work. I had already proposed, in agreement with the secretariat, to start the meeting earlier, but since we only knew this morning, it was difficult to start much earlier. We were forced by a difficult timing today, especially since yesterday Parliament was on leave on 15 August. All this has made our timing extremely complex. That is why I proposed that a meeting of our committee be reconvened quickly next week, since a National Security Council will be held on Thursday. It would be interesting, from the beginning of next week, to be able to agree and have time to rest the questions at our ease.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u42	Of course, I have no problem with being here weekly, even during the so-called recess. But I do not think there is any point in convening a meeting and only going out two hours. That is why I propose that we start at least in the morning. Hopefully the agenda of both ministers can be adjusted accordingly. In this way we can take ample time, both ministers and members of the committee. That way we can ask our questions. In the meantime, I have noticed that if you do not ask the questions, you will not get an answer either. There must also be time for the reply, otherwise I do not think there is much point in working in seven haste. Perhaps this is just happening in front of the press to show that the committee is working hard. Then why is the committee meeting? So one may as well have a cup of coffee and eat a piece of cake.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u43	I would like to reply to Mr Creyelmans. There are effective members who have gone over their time, but also several members who have spoken less than the time indicated. It is indeed the ministers who have replied for a very long time. In this way, they have prevented us from replying. That is why I agree with Mrs Tillieux's proposal to meet next week and then provide at least three hours. That's how we can replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u44	I think we have limited ourselves, in terms of parliamentary office, to 1:10 a.m. to ask all our questions. Ministers have almost doubled their speaking time, we will not want them to, since we were waiting for their answers. It's very good that they spoke. We are short of time today, which is why I propose that you reconvene a meeting as soon as possible. This is the situation we are facing today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u45	Madam President, I would like to be clear, as I have many remaining questions, and questions have also emerged during the answers of the ministers. Can we now put these questions in writing and expect an answer to them within the week? Is it possible to ask new questions next week, or is it just going to be the continuation of today's sitting next week?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-18-55-commissie-ic251x.u46	I suggest that you re-submit the questions for which you feel you have not received an answer. Reposition the questions you wish to discuss at the next sitting and the debate will only be more intense. Thank you and I shall adjourn the meeting.
