ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u1	Colleagues, please be welcome, whether it's here in the room or on video conferencing. Three questions by Ms Dedonder, Nos. 55001800C, 55001907C and 55001992C, are transformed into written questions. I have no news of Mr.Kir, who is not present to ask his questions Nos. 55002541C and 55002542C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u2	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, this problem has already been explained in detail in the previous committee. It's two problems in Ghent's FPC. In the case of circulation doors, the solution is to replace the hinges with a different type, replace the door frames and place new doors. About thirty doors were adapted in this way. 85 more doors are being pre-emptively adapted. It is planned that this should have been done by 11 June 2020. Research carried out by a lab at Ghent University shows that the cause is due to a combination of factors. The costs are divided according to everyone's responsibility between the Directorate of Buildings, the installer and the maintenance company. With regard to the chamber doors, an incident occurred in December 2019, after which 18 doors were temporarily operated with a mechanical lock and the containment procedure was adjusted as a precaution and as a safety measure. The solution consists of replacing the door magnets with a larger one. That's what happened at all 28 doors in the most critical wards. The other room doors in less critical departments will also be adapted in this way by mid-June 2020. All detection cabinets in all room doors are also replaced. These works started on 21 April 2020 and will be completed by mid-June 2020. The proposed solutions and timing were communicated during a constructive consultation on 21 January 2020 and confirmed at a meeting on 5 March 2020 between the management of the FPC, the trade unions, the maintenance company, the Government of the Buildings and the city's security services. Previously, I also had a consultation with staff representatives myself in the summer of 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I hear that the problem has been solved in part and that the rest will follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u4	Mr President, my question dates back a few months ago. However, in a dossier that has been going on for almost 20 years, current events are not lost. My question concerns the Finance Tower, which was recently sold to a South Korean real estate group, at a quadruple price at which it was traded in a sale-and-lease-back operation by the then Verhofstadt Government. In the meantime, there has also been a plenary debate on this issue. At that time, you indicated that you would ask the Government of the Buildings to examine the possibilities of relocating the services or to better occupy the available floor space in the Financial Services that is rented for now EUR 58 million per year. In the meantime, what is the state of the investigation carried out by the Government of the Buildings? Are alternative housing or more efficient use of space indeed possible? Can you explain what space in the Financial Institutions is used by the respective federal government departments and Cabinets? Do these services have to pay rent or other costs to the Government of the Buildings? How much is asked for that? Does the contract include an early termination clause?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u5	Mr Roggeman, the complex we are talking about includes both the Finance Tower and the Door Building on the corner of the Koningsstraat and the Kruidtuinlaan. Both buildings are connected by the basement floor. The sale of the site took place after approval by the Council of Ministers on 12 October 2001 for an amount of 276 million euros. The owner has invested €325 million for asbestos removal and renovation. The rented area is 158.927 m2 offices, 26.823 m2 archives and 698 parking spaces. The current annual rent is 58.5 million euros. This corresponds to an amount of EUR 330 per m2 per year for the office area. Notwithstanding the relatively favourable location of the building and the fact that the basic rental price was acceptable at the start of the contract, the current rental price increased more than the market price as a result of the contractual annual indexation. The contract was concluded for a fixed term which runs until the end of 2034. The agreement does not provide for the possibility of early termination of the lease. Nor is there any provision for an interim renegotiation of the rental price or other modalities. The agreement stipulates that the landlord must grant permission for a sub-rent. In the Financial Institutions, the FPS Finance is currently the largest customer using floors 10-29. Other federal clients include the FPS Home Affairs, the PPS Social Integration, the FPS Social Security, the NICC and the policy cells of Ministers Clarinval, De Block, De Croo and De Backer. With the exception of a zone of 461 m2 on the seventh floor, all the plateaus of the Finance Tower are in use. In the Door Building, the BFSA is the largest user. A detail of the surface area per user can always be delivered to you. Federal services and ministerial cabinets do not pay rent to the Government of the Buildings. The Regie takes on the role of syndicus in the management of the building. Users pay rent charges in accordance with the administrative regulations, such as the energy consumption and tenant maintenance of the technical installations to the Regie. For this purpose, a system of quarterly commissions and accounts is used. In 2019, the total rental costs amounted to 8.3 million euros. The use of the available area will be further optimised. The Regie is working on a master plan to increase the capacity utilisation of the rented area by bringing together more services in the building. This study is currently under way. The recent sale of the building has no influence whatsoever on the rental contract as the new owner takes over the rights and obligations of the previous landlord. I can't say anything about the pending lawsuit between the previous owner and the tax administration because the Regie isn't involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Perhaps you could provide the secretariat of the committee with an overview. This deal was closed a lot of years ago. My party had just been founded and I assume that you were still in front of an academic auditorium at that time. So we do not have any responsibility for this political legacy, but we do have to find a possible solution. I sincerely hope that we will soon see the result of the reflection exercise at the Buildings Regie. If it can achieve efficiency gains in the use of the tower, it would increase its credibility as a policy body.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u7	Minister, following the decision of the reform of the justices of peace, justice will be done in Saint-Vith "under the tree", as you called it of your wishes. However, the institutions of justice of peace are still in this building, still in principle until 2022. I'm talking about the building of the Klosterstraße in Saint-Vith. I would like to know what will happen to this institution and its future accommodation. It seems to me that this is a state building. What will his future assignment be?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u8	Mrs Jadin, the building is owned by SA Fedimmo. The lease agreement with the Régie des Bâtiments is terminateable at the earliest on December 27, 2024 and also includes the adjacent building where the FPS Finances is housed. As a result, there will still be sufficient time to discuss future space requests with federal clients. It is up to the owner to decide on the future of the building, after a possible termination of the lease with the Régie des Bâtiments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u9	Minister, once it is not customary, I have been misinformed. I thought the lease ended in 2022, actually in 2024. As you say, three federal public services are housed there. I hope to have the opportunity, with you, since we are working well together – or with your successor – to resume discussions about their future assignment. Many federal public services would like to stay in Saint-Vith and I will echo it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u10	Minister, the construction of the new prison in Dendermonde has been planned for over ten years and has been the subject of dispute for just as long. On 24 July 2019, the Council for Authorisation Disputes rejected the claims for destruction of urban planning permits. As a result, the Government of the Buildings and the construction consortium that takes over the construction have the executable permits to start the works. The preliminary opening works were already carried out some time ago on behalf of the Flemish Waterweg. I would like to hear from you what steps are still needed before the Regie can start the yard? What budget is foreseen for the construction? How are the phases classified? What is the intended end date? When can the new prison finally open its doors according to the current schedule? Have costs been incurred as a result of the delays in the file? I'm just thinking about waiting fees and interest. How much are the delay costs in total?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u11	Mr Roggeman, work is currently being carried out on the access road and on the bridge. Work continued during the current crisis. After these works the construction of a neighborhood road will be started and the groundwork will be started. On 18 February this year, the financial close took place and the Regie der Buildings handed over the initial order to the consortium. In it, work on the prison itself is scheduled to start in August 2020. The consortium has also started the necessary preparations for this. Payments start from the end of the works. An annual fee of around 15 million euros including VAT will be paid for 25 years. The costs are divided among the Directors of the Buildings and the FPS Justice Department. The fee covers construction costs, financing costs, maintenance for 25 years and facilities services, such as catering, laundry and waste disposal. The project consists of four components: the entrance building, the service building, the cellular building and the logistics building. The four buildings are built simultaneously. The end of the works is planned for the last quarter of 2022. This implies that the staff and prisoners of the old prison of Dendermonde will move to the new prison in Dendermonde in early 2023. The contractual compensation paid to the consortium to date amounts to 2.9 million, as previously communicated on several occasions. As a result of the delay, the project was launched in 2010 and is also subject to a price review and interim legislative changes. However, due to the more interesting financial conditions compared to 2011, the final impact on the annual availability fee is very limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u12	Minister, it is an old dossier, on which many have worked, including your predecessor Minister Jambon. These additional costs of 2.9 million are considerable. That is to be found in the accounts of those who have been in the file for many years. A lot of time and money has been lost here, but I look forward to the moment that the spades go into the ground in the spring of next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u13	My question dates back a long time ago, from January to be concrete. A number of parts of your answer may help me to learn something. That is why I would like to ask the question. On 1 August 2008, the city of Bilzen entered into an agreement with the Government of the Buildings for the partial use of a car park at a former establishment of the FPS Finance Services on the Brugstraat. The Government of the Buildings has decided to terminate that contract with effect from 1 January 2020. When did the Government of the Buildings decide to stop the agreement? Are excessive burdens, damages or other causes behind them? If not, what was the reason for making that decision? Has there been any consultation with the city of Bilzen prior to the decision? Has the city indicated at any time before the decision to regret or urge this decision not to take it? The services of the FPS Finance have since left the buildings. Is there a possibility of a new agreement whereby only the outdoor space, the parking space, could be rented? If so, have any steps been taken by the city of Bilzen?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u14	Mr President, Mr Raskin, the Director of Buildings is renting that site of the NV Fedimmo with an agreement that runs until 27 December 2024. On the site are a building used by the FPS Finance and a building where the peace court is housed. Since the FPS Finance has since left the building, the Regie negotiated with the landlord to early remove the lease agreement for the Finance Building and the associated parking spaces from the lease. The proposal was adopted at the Council of Ministers on 27 March 2020. The rent for the peace appetizer just goes on. As a result, the agreement whereby part of the car park of the Finance Building was leased to the city of Bilzen had to be terminated. Together with the Finance Building, the car park had to be returned to the landlord in good time. This decision therefore has nothing to do with excessive burdens or damage. The Regie first communicated its intention to the city of Bilzen by e-mail, after which a formal letter of termination was sent on 7 January 2020. The Regie has provided the owner's details to the city so that she can contact herself to discuss a possible new right of use.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for the specific dates and explanations. That's enough for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u16	Mr President, Minister, as you know, the Verviers courthouse is in a deplorable state. At the request of the technical services of the city of Verviers, the services of the palace and the Régie des Bâtiments, a visit, in the presence of the mayor, had moreover been organized on 3 December last. Since the situation had become very critical, the Régie had announced that it would put in place the sealing of the facade of the left wing of Paul Janson Square. This measure, of which we do not know the duration, had led the mayor to take a police order. In this context of the courthouse's advanced age, one of the solutions identified was the Prince of Wales Building development project, which is located next to the courthouse and is new. The Court is expected to host two large courtrooms in the near future, the Labour Court and the Justice of the Peace. The end of this project was estimated at March of this year – my questions date from January 30th – but the revelations of the local press on Wednesday, January 29th are concerned about the observance of this agenda. It would appear that a telephone problem arises or has arisen. In order to avoid the obsolete telephone station in the old palace, it is necessary to have the Voice Over Internet Protocol – the VOIP – which provides access to multimedia and voice communications via the Internet. However, the ad hoc public contract would still not have been awarded, which explains the fears of workers and their representatives about a further postponement of the move or a timely installation in a building that would not be fully operational. Minister, would I have wanted to know if you were confirming the information that appeared in the press in January? I also ask you to make a statement on the deadlines for the procurement, when was it awarded? And I'd like to know if this known setback during the winter will or has had an impact on the final settlement in the nearby Prince of Galle building?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u17	Minister, I come back to the saga of the Verviers courthouse whose infrastructure is out of date and where working conditions are poor, if not very bad. The investment of the T Palm buildings, which I will now also name Prince of Wales, is a prospect that the judicial staff of the former Verviers district have been waiting for for a very long time. Justice is always done there. It was also a guarantee of the reform of the judicial landscape to continue to have intact services at Verviers. To do this, your predecessors also committed to providing efficient facilities. It must be noted that this is slow. I'm not even talking about the old historic building of the courthouse. It hurts the heart to penetrate it so beautiful it is. Unfortunately, he's in total decrepitude. You've already come to visit him. Mr Minister, like my colleague Ben Achour, I would like to take the opportunity of your agents to know the precise timing of the investment of the premises T Palm (Prince of Wales) in order to finally be able to give a perspective and a new impetus to all those officials of the Justice FPS who wish only one thing: to be able to work in decent conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the annexed building at the Verviers courthouse (Prince of Wales), the provisional reception of the works is scheduled for 4 June 2020. Immediately thereafter, the FPS Justice will take possession of the premises. All telephone and data connection points have been equipped and wired to meet the needs of the services, and wiring to the former palace's concentration areas has been placed. It remains to connect and place the active elements that will be installed upon taking possession of the building. As far as the former courthouse was concerned, it required urgent and important adjustments to ensure the safety of the occupants and citizens. An opinion had been requested from a specialist study office. Among the general recommendations, mention was made of the closure of areas that are still accessible. Stables have been installed to ensure the safety of staff. The installation of the said studs was received by another independent study office. While it is clear that the placement of studs causes great inconvenience to the services and especially to the police court staff, this is only considered from a provisional perspective. The various services make every effort to ensure that the relocation of the affected services takes place as quickly as possible. Further work is planned shortly to stabilize the façade of the Paul Janson wing. It will follow the dismantling of chapels and chimney heads. A third dossier is being finalized for the deconstruction of the reinforced concrete roof and reinforced concrete floors on the second floor of the Paul Janson wing, as well as the construction of a temporary seal. Finally, work to improve comfort and safety for all has been undertaken or planned and is being closely monitored through follow-up meetings in the presence of all relevant actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u19	Mr President, Minister, thank you for these answers. I am pleased to hear, if I understand correctly, that the move to the Prince of Wales building – said T Palm, the name of the contractor who built it – will take place in the wake of June 4. I would have liked more details on the future of the work, of which I have understood the content, in the historic building, which is indeed a very important heritage element in Verviers, which is a city very rich in its historical heritage, given its industrial history. It is a very important heritage element that needs to be renovated and rehabilitated as soon as possible. I would have liked to know more about the deadlines, but I will come back to this committee to ask you questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u20	Mr President, Minister, you have indeed spoken of the stallions, which I mentioned in my question. It is very curious to see that public servants have to work in the middle of these stallions. Admittedly, the question deserved to be asked. It was necessary to be reassured about the deadlines, the move, the move. I think it will also be very good to be able to do so from 4 June for the officials of the justice system, in somewhat complicated moments linked to the health crisis. I also come back to the historic building of the courthouse. I hear that stabilization work is going to be done – and that is a very good thing. I also know that the Régie des Bâtiments has over the years renovated many buildings whose competence to restore heritage belonged to the Regions. Perhaps I dream, minister, – we are all a little idealistic – but if we could put in place interesting agreements and collaborations in this absolute – in my head – the need to fight more for this heritage gem by finding original ideas. I don't think the Régie des Bâtiments has to handle it alone, but if we could find original ideas for restoration, it would be really important for the city of Verviers, of which I am never far away.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u21	Question No 55003258C by Mrs Dedonder is postponed, as is Question No 55003307C by Mr Rigot. I have no news of Mrs Rohonyi, who is not present to ask her question No 55003492C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u22	Mr Minister, since 1992 there has been an agreement between the Brussels-Capital Region and the Region of the Buildings on the maintenance of various parks in Brussels, including some owned by the Royal Gift. According to this agreement, Brussels will receive an annual amount of approximately €10 million from the Directorate of Buildings to cover the maintenance costs of these areas. However, the costs for the Brussels-Capital Region appear to be higher. The Brussels Government therefore announced a few months ago that they would forward an additional invoice of EUR 7 million to the Buildings Regie. In this way, the Regie is financially endorsed for the management of property owned by the Royal Gift located in Brussels. Where else did we hear that? I would have liked to have heard from you what amounts have been paid to the Brussels Region by the Government of the Buildings in the past few years under this agreement. Do you think it is a good idea that the Government of the Buildings pays millions annually to the Brussels Region for the maintenance of the property of the Royal Gift? When are these contracts due to expire? Is there any possibility of an early review of this? Does the agreement contain a provision justifying the transfer of higher maintenance costs? Is the Brussels Government actually outside the legal framework of this agreement? Will the Government of the Buildings under your control pay that 7 million euros? Have you discussed this with the Brussels Region or with other partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u23	Mr Roggeman, an agreement that dates back to 1992, concluded between the Government of the Buildings and the Brussels Region, stipulates that the Government of the Buildings entrusts the maintenance of a series of green spaces, some owned by the State and others by the Royal Gift, to the Region. This Agreement was concluded for a period of 30 years from 1 January 1992. The Government of the Buildings is investigating the options for after this expiry date. The management of a number of sites of the property owned by the Royal Gift was entrusted to the Belgian State through agreements concluded between the Royal Gift and the Belgian State. These agreements provide that this property is made available to the public, such as the parks of the Chinese Pavilion and the Japanese Tower. In return, the Belgian State takes care of its maintenance. They are therefore indeed spaces the management and maintenance of which are legally borne by the Federal State, represented here by the Government of the Buildings. For the maintenance of these green spaces, the Government of the Buildings, in application of the agreement with the Brussels Region, owes an annual lump sum of 75 million Belgian francs, or today an amount of 3,261.117 euros. That last amount is the indexed amount in 2019. The amount has been under discussion for some time. The Buildings Executive has been requesting a review of the agreement since 2008. Consequently, since 2008, the Regie has unilaterally withheld certain amounts on the basis of its own calculations and estimates. For example, for the year 2019, the Buildings Regié paid an amount of EUR 2,496,068, which corresponds to a deduction of approximately 25%. Discussions with the Region are still ongoing. A new meeting is scheduled for the end of May. This consultation will also address the very recent question of the Brussels-Capital Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u24	Minister, it strikes me in your reply that the different versions of this story appear to be far apart. According to the estimates of the Government of the Buildings, the costs were lower than the agreed EUR 3 million, according to the Brussels-Capital Region they seem to be higher. In any case, it is yet another story in which the Royal Gift attempts to pass costs on to the taxpayer. The Royal Gift does not fall within your jurisdiction, but the Government of the Buildings does. I therefore invite you to maintain the agreements that have been reached in the past with the Brussels-Capital Region, not to provide for this additional amount, and to stand on your lines in anticipation of the upcoming contract, which will have to be concluded from 2022, and to ensure that excessive millions of invoices do not end up where they should not. In any case, you will find a partner in us to give you the necessary support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u25	Mrs Vindevoghel is not here for her question No. Five hundred and
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u26	Minister, last year a new construction project was launched at the Asphalcosite in Asse. The aim of this new building is to provide facilities for the FPS Finance and centralise the judicial services in Asse. Everyone who, like me, has been on the spot this year in Gasthuisstraat or the Nervianstraat near the Halle-Vilvoorde parquet is immediately convinced of the need for this. The current buildings are worn out to the wire, small and tight and absolutely not suitable for housing a parquet. The current site is also unsuitable in terms of security. A new building for the parquet of Halle-Vilvoorde is therefore certainly to be applauded, but apparently it is not all rose scent and moonshine. There are signs that the current new building would be too small for the Halle-Vilvoorde parquet. Also, the location of Asse is not optimal in itself, if the courts are still in Brussels and the examination courts are sitting in Brussels. This leads to a lot of back and forth with files and people. Three cars are permanently available to commute between the parquet in Asse and the courts in Brussels. So that's not really optimal. Mr Minister, are you aware that the announced new construction in Asse would be too small for the Halle-Vilvoorde parquet? Can you guarantee that the new construction in Asse will provide sufficient space for the Halle-Vilvoorde parquet? How will the new construction create efficiency gains in relation to the movements between Asse and Brussels? Is it not better to remove the anomaly from the sixth state reform and to give Halle-Vilvoor the full courts or, on the other hand, to merge Halle-Vilvoorde with Leuven into Flemish Brabant?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u27	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, at the start of the project, a specific need programme was drawn up for the Halle-Vilvoorde parquet, supplemented by the needs of the work audit centre, currently housed in Brussels, and the Asse peace court. The project was prepared in consultation with the judicial services. The remark that the building would be too small is therefore unfounded. If there are any questions or comments, the judicial services can, of course, contact the competent department of the FPS Justice, which has not yet received any questions. However, there are still ongoing discussions with the services about micro-implantation, but this concerns the search for optimal insertion of the service in the building, not a shortage of square metres. Thanks to the creation of a private prosecutor's office, today the prosecution can pursue a separate criminal policy for the region of Halle-Vilvoorde, which effectively brings more cases from Halle-Vilvoorde to justice today, which is a positive development that has also proved possible with a court in Brussels. A digital file, for which important steps have been taken in the last legislature, will in future easily remedy the problem of the transfer of files between Asse and Brussels. That seems to me to be a more efficient solution than asking a citizen from, for example, Gooik or Londerzeel to move to the court in Leuven, at least in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u28	Minister, I am surprised that you have not yet heard of these concerns, but perhaps they will. I hope, in any case, that if the new building is to be built, anyone who asks and finds it necessary will be sufficiently spacious, because it would obviously be very unfortunate to set up a new building which is already known to be unable to meet the requirements. I therefore hope that this will be looked at again before the construction phase takes place.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u29	For these attached questions, I see only Mr Vanden Burre who is present among the three authors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u30	Mr President, Minister, I come back to you regarding the status of the Haren prison file. The last appeals filed by citizens before the Council of State in June 2019 were rejected. The work was therefore able to begin, in order to set up this 1 190-seat mega-prison in the north of Brussels. The Ecolo-Green Group has always opposed this project, in any case in its present form, as it does not correspond to its vision of prison policy to build such mega-penitentiary complexes. Nevertheless, I wanted to ask you about the progress of the case and the work. Can you give me an overview of the work in progress, of the prison's construction planning, which has already had to be modified in several respects. I imagine that it also had to be modified to reflect the crisis related to VOCID-19. Do you already have a modified schedule? Can you remind me of all the budgetary costs, following the various changes made, in connection with the DBFM system, carried out with the Cafasso consortium. About a year ago, with the members of the Justice Committee of the time, I had access to the contract, which was binding on the Régie des Bâtiments and the Cafasso consortium. After many requests, the document had been made available for strict consultation in the offices of the House. During its review, it was found that all budget amounts were blurred. Now, would it be possible to finally have all the documents, in a completely transparent way, containing the figures and, at a minimum, to be made available to parliamentarians and to the Committee on Mobility and Public Enterprises, which is now dealing with the files relating to the Régie des Bâtiments?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u31	Mr Vanden Burre, all the information – including budgetary information – about Haren prison can be found on the site of the Régie des Bâtiments and on gevangenisharenprison.be, where the calendar is also included. The prison will be operational by mid-2022. The prison complex will be built on the basis of a Design-Build-Finance-Maintain (DBFM) procedure. The costs will be reimbursed in the form of annual allowances from the provision which, as you mentioned, is foreseen in 2022 – and this, for 25 years until the property is delivered to the Belgian State. The annual allowance will amount to some €40 million and will cover the payment of the investment – construction cost and financing – as well as the full maintenance of buildings and land for 1,190 people. The prison will therefore be fully maintained so that prisoners can live in acceptable conditions and that the supervision staff can perform their work in optimal conditions. The annual allowance is partially borne by the Régie des Bâtiments – for about two thirds – and by the SPF Justice – for about one third. In fact, last year, the contract was made available for consultation of the possible conditions at the time and still now. The absence of certain information was already motivated in detail. The preparation of the project takes several years and involves various stakeholders: the FPS Justice as end-user, the city of Brussels, the Brussels-Capital Region, the Flemish Region, the surrounding municipalities, etc. A permit for specific access via the Woluwelaan had previously been obtained. The location of the site already guarantees the proximity of public transport. The Régie des Bâtiments, in collaboration with stakeholders, examines the additional stopping places that still need to be planned. No estimates have been made at this time. Therefore, we are not currently aware of the budgets that the Regions would have for possible public transport projects. An agreement will still be reached with the city of Brussels for the redevelopment of the environment around the site, for example with the presence of a park along the railway line.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answers. As you said yourself, some information has not been provided, even if you answer some questions. A year later, we are entitled to full transparency in this matter. We will therefore continue our parliamentary action in order, at a minimum, to have full transparency on the conditions that bind the Régie des Bâtiments to the consortium Cafasso. This is the least of the things in this case, which still has seen many twists, whether in terms of citizens' recourse or governance. We will clearly continue the work on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u33	Questions Nos. 55006128C and 55006129C by Ms. Schlitz are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u34	Minister, a royal decree issued on February 25, 2020 tells us that the term of office of the current general administrator of the Régie des Bâtiments, Laurent Vrijdaghs, has been extended for a third six-year term at the head of the Régie des Bâtiments. A third term at the head of such a public institution is possible when the assessment of the person concerned has been deemed "excellent" by the appropriate minister, that is to say you, Minister. Can you remind us of the precise conditions for obtaining a third consecutive term, which is not common at the head of a federal institution such as the Régie des Bâtiments? Could you please provide us with a copy of the assessment that led you to grant Mr. Vrijdaghs this third consecutive term of office? What are the objective elements of this evaluation in relation to the improvement of the situation of the Régie des Bâtiments, the management of projects, the planning, the overall investments? Finally, is such a renewal procedure normal and possible in a current business environment, as was the case last February? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u35	Mr Vanden Burre, in accordance with Article 15, § 2 of the Royal Decree of 10 April 2014 amending certain provisions relating to management and supervisory functions in certain public interest bodies, the term of office of the administrator of the Régie des Bâtiments, which ended on 31 January 2020 in the evening, should be regarded as his first term of office. The procedure for granting him a second mandate has been initiated. Article 30, paragraphs 1 and 2e, of the Royal Decree of 16 November 2006 on the designation and performance of management and supervisory functions in certain public interest bodies has been applied. This section provides that if a management function is declared vacant by the minister concerned and the holder whose term of office has expired submits his or her candidature, the minister concerned shall give him or her a new mandate provided that he or she has received at least the final statement "fulfils expectations" after his or her first term of office. The final evaluation of Mr Vrijdaghs allowed the procedure to continue. In this case, the person concerned is deemed to have satisfied the comparative selection, without the need for a new selection procedure. The candidate chosen shall be nominated by the King by deliberate decree in the Council of Ministers. Given the personal nature of an evaluation, it is not appropriate to provide a copy of the evaluation report or the specific elements of that report. In accordance with the instructions in the December 21, 2018 Circular of the Minister of Budget regarding budgetary prudence during the current business period and the February 8, 2019 Public Service Communication, the renewal of the term of office of the Deputy Head of the Régie des Bâtiments is possible if the holder whose term of office ends submits his or her candidacy and obtains the final mention "answers to expectations" after the first term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u36	Thank you, Minister. I have noted your answer, which I will look at in detail. The explanation for which you consider this to be a second term is not entirely clear to me. I have to get in there. For us, this was rather a third mandate and therefore also an exceptional situation. I hear you're looking at things differently and you're giving arguments, which I'll look at in detail. I'll come back to you if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic181x.u37	We have exhausted the agenda. Minister, I will end with good news: the statue of Virginius in the park of Tervuren has been dismantled for its restoration and the base for its repair. We will be able to get the work back on his feet in some time. I won't bother you with that question any more! It was a little wink. I thank colleagues, minister and services, and I adjourn the meeting.
