ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic211x.u1	Mr President, Minister, at the very beginning of the corona crisis, the meat processing industry had problems with stock management. Due to the disappearance of catering supplies to schools, sandwich shops that no longer needed products and the standstill of exports, the industry has lost a significant share of its customers. In addition, a number of orders that were ready could not be delivered, for example because they were foreseen for promotional actions that were banned at the start of the corona crisis. The customer didn't want those orders anymore and didn't pay for them, while the companies had put in man hours and processing costs. Other customers indicated that they would pay only part of the outstanding invoices and spread the rest over a longer period. Other people just didn't pay. This has led to stocks of products with a limited expiration date. Consequently, a significant part of it was destroyed. This is purely financial loss for the sector, but it is also ethically regrettable, given the ambitions to combat food losses and waste. You remember the resolution we adopted last week in this area. An obvious suggestion to solve this problem is a donation to food banks, but there too I hear that this slope is not always feasible. Offered stocks were sometimes refused by food banks because they could not process the products offered. Here too, the limited expiry date plays a role. Mr Minister, I have four questions for you: do you have a view of the financial impact of the destruction of stocks in the meat processing industry on the farms concerned? To what extent were stocks destroyed? What impact has this problem had on the employment and activity of these companies in the sector? Finally, what initiatives are you taking to prevent such destruction of stocks and to lead non-available products to charitable initiatives such as food banks, or, in the absence of such initiatives, to the residual stream of animal feed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic211x.u2	Mr de Caluwe, the meat processing sector was indeed affected by the consequences of the COOVID-19 crisis, as were many other economic sectors. It is undoubtedly the worst crisis our country has experienced since the Second World War. As you know, the government has rapidly taken a series of support measures for all affected sectors. The regions have also contributed to supporting our economy through the many levers they have at their disposal. The government has also recently taken a series of new measures to help the companies affected. It concerns the extension of the transitional right until the end of August, with the possibility of extending until the end of December, the possibility of recourse to economic unemployment and the postponement or exemption of various tax and social charges. In addition, ERMG will continue to monitor the economic impact on the sector and the government will propose new measures where appropriate. With regard to food aid, I have released EUR 6 million for the OMCWs and food banks to allow them to buy food and basic hygiene products. This exceptional aid is in addition to the resources released each year by the Federal Government for the purchase of food under the European Aid Fund for the Most Deprived (FEAD) in addition to European funds. There is, of course, no obstacle to involving the meat processing sector in this aid, like other services sectors. I have already contacted FedeV to make a series of concrete proposals in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic211x.u3	Mr President, Minister, you rightly pointed out that many sectors have been hit hard, including the meat processing industry. I am also very pleased with the initiatives taken to support all businesses. You have listed a number of initiatives taken by the federal government and regional governments. They're definitely helping this sector survive. I am also pleased that you have provided a budget of EUR 6 million for exceptional additional aid, on top of regular aid through the Fund for European Aid to the Most Deprived. That is a good thing, for those who are already struggling, but it will certainly help this badly affected industry.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic211x.u4	Mr Gilissen, the Russian decision does not cause major distortions on the European cereals market. According to the FAO, the global cereals market would remain in balance despite the effects of the health crisis by COVID-19. World cereals production would be more than 2.4 % higher in 2019-2020 than in the previous season. The forecast for global wheat production remains 763 million tonnes. This is 30.9 million tonnes more than in 2018 and almost as much as the recorded record in 2016, namely 765 million tonnes. As far as Belgian trade with Russia is concerned, Belgium hardly imports grain from Russia. In 2019, this was less than 0,3% of the total volume of cereal imports. If we look at prices on the world market and the European market, the price of sacks of wheat on Rouen's forward market was rising in mid-April. Since then, however, the course has lost ground after improving climatic conditions. At present, this rate has a declining trend. In addition, maize prices have fallen significantly as a result of the significant decrease in bioethanol production. We remain in contact with the European Commissioner, Mr Wojciechowski, in order to anticipate as best as possible any risk to the sectors most affected by the crisis. We shall continue to monitor very closely the evolution of the rates of exchange on the agricultural market. I have just sent a letter to the FAO asking that it also remains attentive to the evolution of the situation and keeps us informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic211x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am glad that the Belgian market was not seriously disturbed, that this has not had a major impact on our Belgian food supply. This contrasts with products such as mouth masks, where our dependence on abroad has caused some problems. Given our import and export dependence, I think we should look at our domestic production in particular. Nor should we compete with cheap foreign imports for our own businesses. As far as surplus meat production is concerned, imports of extra meat from Mercosur countries would only put more pressure on our own companies. I therefore hope that the necessary initiatives can be taken quickly to further support our own businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic211x.u6	Mrs Gijbels, the FPS Economy informs me that the cumulative Mercosur impact study is still in the final stage. Brazil is one of the main exporters of poultry meat to the European Union. However, the planned replacement of import duties may make Brazilian poultry meat even more competitive. I recently sent a letter to Commissioner Wojciechowski. I asked him, as I had done to his predecessor, to devote all the financial resources to the agricultural sector affected by the agreement with Mercosur. I also confirm that the EUR 1 billion fund, exclusively reserved for the agricultural sector, will be addressed through the CMO Regulation in the event of a serious disturbance of the agricultural market. However, it is a matter of regional competence. As regards pesticides, European sanitary rules were not relaxed. Furthermore, in line with the precautionary principle, the agreement provides for the possibility for European authorities to suspend imports of Mercosur products if they pose a risk to consumer health. However, a number of gaps remain in European regulation, particularly as regards the container effect. This concerns the cumulative effect of several pesticides which individually respect the permitted standards. I have again interviewed EFSA and the European Commission and asked them to take that element into account. Indeed, it is well known that Mercosur countries, especially Brazil, are important users of pesticides. I have already had the opportunity to give you my personal opinion on the agreement. I believe that it does not provide adequate guarantees, either for the health of consumers or for compliance with international environmental commitments or for the protection of our family farming. It will, of course, be up to the next government to adopt a position and to the various competent assemblies to ratify or not ratify the Treaty.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic211x.u7	Minister, I note that you yourself see the gaps. We need to monitor very closely the cumulative effect of pesticides on public health. I am pleased that you have interviewed your European colleagues on this issue, and I am counting on the fact that this will continue in the future and that the dossier will be properly monitored so that public health is not compromised and unfair competition for our own farmers will be avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic211x.u8	Both crises have greatly reduced the demand for pork, while supply remains virtually unchanged. Due to African swine fever, our pork exporters are unable to export their products to distant destinations, including China. This contrasts with exporters in other European countries (such as the Netherlands, Germany, France and Spain) who were not affected by the disease. Nevertheless, there has been a substantial fall in prices in these countries as a result of the heavy competition in Asia from the USA, where the prices of pigs have plummeted. As a result, European producers are forced to return to the European market and thus compete with each other, resulting in substantial reductions in the selling price of pigmeat. As a result, the supply of pigs in our country is systematically postponed because slaughterhouses no longer find suitable outlets for their products. The disappearance of demand from hospitality and food service both at home and abroad n.a. The corona crisis is even more conducive to the accumulation of losses. In this respect, I ask myself the following questions: - Is there any indication of the concrete impact of the corona crisis and African swine fever on the pig sector? - What (structural) support measures are currently provided by the public authorities for the pig sector? Are there any more support measures? If so, which one? - This problem is also addressed at European level (e.g. Private storage)? Is there any consultation with the Commissioner for Agriculture?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic211x.u9	Mr President, I imagine that parliamentarians have the opportunity to refer to their written questions separately, one after the other, or to all of their questions at once, and that the minister answers all of these questions at once, which, in itself, is no problem. Mrs Gijbels, I come to your question about the impact of the COOVID-19 crisis on the pigmeat sector. Like other agricultural sectors, the pigmeat sector has been affected by the effects of COOVID-19. The African swine fever affecting wild boars has had a significant impact on this sector, a situation which was all the more unfair because the sector remained completely healthy. While Belgian extra-European pigmeat exports have decreased significantly since the end of 2018, the total figure has remained stable and even slightly increased in 2019 compared to 2018. On the other hand, the closure of catering and canteens due to the lockdown, which was absolutely necessary due to the pandemic, has had another important impact. The carcass price decreased by 19% and the piglets price by 42%. However, the current price is still above the average of the last five years. Like the other affected sectors, the pig sector enjoys all the support measures taken at federal level. I am thinking in particular of the right of bridging, of the facilities for paying social contributions or of economic unemployment. In addition, ERMG will continue to monitor the economic impact of the current crisis and, if necessary, propose new measures to the government. According to my information, supply chains are in any case not threatened because supply remains higher than demand on the European market. On 27 April, the European Commission adopted a package of exceptional measures to support certain agricultural sectors in response to the COOVID-19 crisis. The pig sector wasn't one of them. However, the CMO Regulation on the common organisation of the markets allows for intervention on the markets of different sectors, including the pig sector, under certain conditions. However, the management of this aid mechanism falls within the exclusive competence of the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic211x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Once again, I would like to call for as much as possible a regional embargo on pigmeat products. More than 90% of pig farmers are on Flemish territory. The problem of boar is mainly in the Walloon region. The more countries we can convince to go to a regional embargo or to lift the embargo, the better. That is why we are counting on your negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic211x.u11	Minister, among the workers who are severely impacted by the crisis of the VOCID-19, there are the fora. Since the confinement of our country, private and public activities of a cultural, social, festive, folk, sporting and recreational nature are prohibited. The fairgrounders hope to see a recovery in the fall, although some provinces are exploring the possibility of allowing certain fairground attractions this summer. As independents, foramen can benefit from the extended bridge right. Minister, in addition to bridge law, are you considering specific provisions for this particularly affected sector? I am thinking in particular of the carry-over of appropriations or the authorisation of certain activities during the summer depending on the health situation. You have received several letters from the sector, which suffers particularly and is very worried.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic211x.u12	Mr Vanden Burre, as Minister for Independents and SMEs, I hope that everyone can get back to work as soon as possible. But health remains our priority, and this must be done by ensuring that we respect a number of advice that is given to us by the experts from GEES, the health professionals who accompany us and who tell us how we should proceed to avoid the risk of causing the second wave. I received personally, several weeks ago, one of the main representatives of the world of foragers. The world of fairgrounders is a world to which I am very sensitive for personal reasons. I wanted to personally receive the representative of this sector because beyond the role played by the latter in our cities, in our communes, and beyond the employment it generates, it is an extremely affected sector. There is a lot of talk about horeca, shops, fitness centres, but as with the event sector, carnival activities are still not allowed. That said, it is clear that the positive development of the health situation offers – and this is good news – a beginning of perspective. It will, of course, be up to the National Security Council (NSC) to give its green light to the resumption of activities and I hope that a timetable can be announced. We need to give perspective, hope, concrete. It is in this sense that the approach taken by the CNS and Mrs. Sophie Wilmès is part of the process. You should also be aware that meetings are scheduled this week for the NSC to meet next week. We have already received the deconfinition protocol for the fairgrounds sector and I must say that it is done very well. Dozens of protocols have been received, and I should like to stress that the one on the fairgrounds is very well thought out. I will therefore be able to make a number of proposals to the EESG and to the members of the NSC, where the Ministers-Presidents also sit, in order to see if it is possible to speed up the de-finishing of this sector under strict conditions. From my point of view, it is a matter of giving a perspective and making proposals for the world of fairgrounders. We're not going to see our pre-crisis fairs tomorrow, it's obvious. The summer will be difficult for the carnivals. Whether or not they have activities, they will of course have access to the bridge right of crisis or the bridge right of recovery and they will naturally benefit from all the provisions we have made concerning exemptions, reductions and carry-overs of contributions. That's what I can tell you right now. The file's on the table. As I told you, meetings with my office and Minister Muylle's office are still taking place this week. Work and exchanges around the proposed protocol are taking place. We will also make proposals to the EGE with regard to the fairgrounders. These will be unveiled by the CNS next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic211x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answer. Health is, of course, the priority in the fight against VOCID-19 and during the de-finishing and gradual recovery. This is a conviction for us. I therefore fully share this concern. However, as you said, it is also important to put "under radars" policy makers and decision makers in sectors that are particularly affected. You have cited the Horeca and the cultural sector that have already been debated here in the House. In this case, the fairground sector may have been somewhat less prominent. We must not see any specific will, but it is important to have them in mind. That's why I wanted to question you. Beyond their economic role, they play an important role in our cities, villages, neighbourhoods in terms of conviviality and joy of life. The same applies to the Horeca and the cultural sector. Minister, I am confident that the fairgrounders will look forward to the next decisions of the NSC.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic211x.u14	Mr. President, Minister, the Horeca sector is certainly one of the areas most affected economically by the pandemic and the necessary containment measures to protect our people. Very specific and concrete measures have been taken to alleviate financially the income losses of self-employed and SMEs. In addition to the bridge right, payment facilities have been put in place to allow self-employed persons active in the sector to reduce their provisional social contributions for the first two quarters of 2020, to postpone them or to apply for exemption from social contributions, all in the context of simplified procedures. I am also thinking of temporary unemployment measures, the agreement between Minister De Croo and the banking sector, or the facilities for VAT or occupational discount payments. At your initiative, the Federal Agency for Food Chain Security (AFSCA) has also put in place a number of flexibilities in favour of the sector, such as the possibility for restaurants to offer take-out dishes without having to introduce a new administrative authorisation. Although this measure will not, of course, compensate for the enormous loss that the horeca sector will suffer, it is undeniable that these large-scale aids – we are talking about a billion euros just for bridge law – constitute and will constitute a compensation, both social and economic. In addition, you recently announced that you have postponed until spring 2021 the financial contribution that the horeca sector must pay for the AFSCA in 2020. Could you then tell me what the cost of this global and annual contribution is? You have also expressed the desire to question the European Commission with a view to obtaining the total or partial cancellation of this contribution for the year 2020. Can you tell us more about this approach?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic211x.u15	Mr President, Mrs Taquin, it goes without saying that the horeca sector is one of my top priorities, in particular because it is synonymous with conviviality and know-how and represents part of our culture. In addition, Horeca is the fifth largest provider of jobs in our country. It was one of the first sectors to have to confine itself and is one of the last to start deconfining, under extremely strict conditions that remain difficult. This morning, I read with satisfaction a survey informing us that the first week was positive for the restaurateurs, as the people returned to the terrace or to the interior of their establishments. Naturally, this movement must continue, because it is also the consumer who will make the difference. From the moment we have taken measures that are intended to be practical, while guaranteeing the health safety rules for both the staff and the restaurant and the client, we must go to the restaurant to eat. We will do so soon in Courcelles, in accordance with the invitation you have kindly extended to me. As you indicated, we have decided to postpone the payment of contributions due to AFSCA by the horeca sector. In keeping with 2019 figures, more than 64,000 horeca establishments and travelling businesses whose activities were stopped could benefit from this breath of oxygen of the order of 10 million euros. I wrote to the European Commission to examine the possibility of this postponement – but not only. We know that such a measure is also a sword of Damocles, because it means that we will have to pay under insufficient cash conditions. That is why I have also proposed to the Commission that the sector be exempted, in whole or in part, from the amount of the AFSCA contribution for 2020. In its response – which I expect shortly – the Commission will have to determine whether these options are compatible with EU state aid rules. Therefore, I hope that, given the situation, it will show the flexibility we need at the moment. You have also indicated that we, the Minister of Finance and I, have been able to have a number of complementary measures that will benefit Horeca, as are other sectors that are resuming their activities. I am thinking in particular of the extension of the bridge law. It is in fact for those restaurateurs who are reopening to be able to benefit from this right while starting to work again. You know that the bridge right, as I built it, was quite related to containment. It took seven days of closure to dispose of it. Now, the sector has been given the signal to reopen, to recover. It would have been a nonsense to tell its members, however, to remain closed for seven days. This means that those sectors that have been struck by a one-month closing deadline will be able to reopen while touching the bridge law for the months of June, July and August. Indeed, it is a gateway 2.0 right, the bridge right of resumption. It is guaranteed to the Horeca, the shops, the hairdressers, the beauticians, in short to all those who have been struck by a closure of a calendar month and who can demonstrate a decrease in turnover of 10% compared to the same quarter of the previous year. In view of this month of closure, this should, in the vast majority of cases, be accessible. To accompany the recovery, there is also the exemption of the professional discount. We have chosen this path with the government to encourage and facilitate the re-engagement of people currently in temporary unemployment. We had to make this link to support employment in this sector. VAT has increased from 21 % to 6 % for non-alcoholic beverages. I don't hide that I was also in favour of a reduction for alcohol. I do not think it was an incentive to drink alcohol, since there was not necessarily a drop in selling prices. This would have guaranteed more cash, cash in coffees and bars. We know how much nightclubs and cafés are in trouble today. However, an agreement is always a compromise. You also have a cheque of 300 euros maximum for staff. This means that as a mayor, in Courcelles, if you want to support Horeca, sport and culture locally, you can decide, Madam Mayor, to offer a cheque ranging from 1 euro to 300 euros to support your local horeca. I hope it'll be a little more than a euro because you're a rather generous person. This naturally has advantages. It's deductible and challenges are 100%. We are also counting on the initiatives of the mayors in this area. We will naturally remain connected with the sector. I meet very regularly with the Horeca federations and certain associations that were born during the crisis in order to accompany the resumption of these activities and to consider, in the coming weeks and months, according to the evolution of the health situation, an adaptation of the safety measures which are now indispensable, but which, over time, could evolve.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic211x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answer and for the clarification you have given me. This measure alongside others will certainly help the horeca sector that needs it, which you are fully aware of. Indeed, since the submission of my question, you have taken many measures of financial and economic support, such as the extension and extension of the bridge right and the postponement of social contributions, with emphasis on the full perception of the deferral among the actors on the ground. Minister, I would like to thank you for all the hard work you have done, but also for listening to all those independents who, whatever the sector to which they belong, are facing the health crisis. I have often told you about my concerns and my questions, particularly about the fairground sector, and you have always been listening, at all times of the day and night, and even during the weekend. Thank you, therefore, for your involvement. I hope you can continue to help these people in the coming months, as you have done so far. Know that many recognize the importance of your concrete and rapid measures. Before I finish my speech, allow me to make a small request. Indeed, I have been asked by the coffee makers who, because of the health measures, are obliged to wear a mask. Of course, their safety is at stake. It makes sense that they protect their nose and mouth. Their request is to allow them to wear a visor, if they do not have masks. The commune of Courcelles equips all traders with mandatory equipment, but being able to wear a visor could relieve them, knowing that wearing the mask at all times is very uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic211x.u17	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, it was another sector very much affected by the VOCID-19 crisis that sent you a letter, and in my question, I relay some of the questions and concerns raised in the letter. It is therefore the private welfare centre sector. They are small-scale care centres, of the same type as a beauty institute. They are managed by independents. They only work by appointment. They're swimming pools and saunas, but they're private. They have obviously been closed and are still closed today. All infrastructure is usually and systematically cleaned, when customers leave, since this type of facility welcomes customers only on a private basis. The sector makes a comparison – relevant, in my view – with the situation of hotel attendance. Imagine a hotel with swimming pool or a gite with a private sauna that are open from June 15th, at least for the weeks of holiday. We are therefore entitled to ask ourselves whether the difference in treatment between the two is still valid and relevant. How do you intend to answer these questions that are important to this sector? As you said in response to my previous question, we must be able to give perspectives to a whole range of sectors. What are the prospects you can give this sector and what is the answer you sent to their mail? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic211x.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Vanden Burre, your question is important and you are talking about a sector that is falling apart late. As with all sectors in this situation, there is anxiety. As I said to you, I am currently piloting with my colleague Mullye – as we did on 11 and 18 May and 8 June – the meetings on protocols for the various sectors to be removed. My objective is, of course, to submit to the next National Security Council a reopening of these centres on 1 July. Let it be clear! That remains the objective. I will therefore present these proposals to the experts of the GEES and to the National Security Council, which will decide. I'm showing a clear goal. As you have indicated, with regard to lodgings, accommodation and hotels, there is a special feature in relation to these centres. We are therefore currently taking stock of the protocol. Meetings are being held this week with the sector – I am not content with mail – to look at the subject and to make proposals to adapt their protocol. I'll explain how this is going so that you can fully understand the mechanics and the method. I'm getting the area. We discuss the protocol in the light of a number of health and safety criteria found in all protocols. If there are any specific questions or remarks left, since I am not a virologist and neither are you, we will forward them to the GEES. On the basis of this exchange, meetings are held with the GEES, with Sophie Wilmès, with the Ministers-Presidents in preparation for the National Security Council and this is where we will decide together, on the one hand, on the date and, on the other hand, on all the safety and health criteria which are dictated by the Protocol and which must accompany the resumption. That is how this is going, and that is what we are working on right now. As far as welfare centres are concerned, I intend to give a very concrete perspective. My goal is 1 July 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic211x.u19	Minister, thank you for that answer. You talked about clear perspectives. I fully understand that this is subject to the opinion and agreement of the virologists and the GEES. That is how all decisions are made, and it is obviously a process that we support. It's important to give a perspective, as you did. In any case, the sector can expect decisions soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic211x.u20	Minister, the moratorium on bankruptcies, decided by the federal government and supported by the Ecolo-Groen Group, ends today, June 17. This exceptional measure had proved useful and relevant in view of the seriousness of the economic crisis following the VOCID-19 pandemic, provided of course that it was accompanied by a range of other measures. It cannot be regarded as a miracle measure which alone would avoid bankruptcy. Moreover, avoiding the bankruptcy of a company in difficulty and struggling to survive is not necessarily a healthy or positive measure for the economy. But in this case, this measure, due to the crisis caused by a virus, was important. It was also requested by all associations representing the self-employed, SMEs (UCM, NSI, Unizo). We are therefore seeking an extension of this moratorium, not indefinitely, but the time for the PRJ (judicial reorganization procedure) to be reformed in accordance with a European directive, which requires Belgium to do so by June 2021. Moreover, a text introduced by your political group, the MR, will be discussed this afternoon in the Committee on the Economy. In principle, it seems interesting and relevant to us to reform the current procedure. So let us extend the current moratorium that ends today and extend it until this law is passed in plenary. Given that the text will be presented this afternoon, I imagine that a few weeks will be enough for the debate to take place and, in any case, before 21 July. In our view, it is important to intervene in this matter. Indeed, to extend the moratorium on bankruptcies in a consistent or indefinite manner is neither appropriate nor constructive. On the other hand, it is a useful measure in view of the current crisis and we support it. We call, rather than having it brought to an abrupt end today, for it to be extended until another process and another deeper reform is in place: that of the judicial reorganization procedure (PRJ). That is the proposal that I wanted to hear from you, Minister. Would you be in favour of such a provision, which would cover a few weeks, and if so, could you submit it within the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic211x.u21	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre, this is obviously an important subject. I was the first in the government, at the beginning of the crisis, to indicate that it was desirable for us to take steps to put in place a moratorium on bankruptcies and seizures. I, together with my colleague Mr Geens, have carried out this moratorium, because, as you have said, in the midst of a crisis, we must protect our SMEs and self-employed people who have been hit hard by the socio-economic consequences of the VOCID-19. Through a decree of special powers, we were able to put it in place - not easily. In discussions at the superkern level, with the ten parties, this was not necessarily easy. But we still extended it until June 17th. I know that there are proposals on the table, discussions in Parliament, and that is how it is. The latter is sovereign and must naturally decide. This is a heavy responsibility because, for having consulted widely, such a measure is only effective if it is temporary. Otherwise, it can produce a domino effect. Bankruptcy legislation also protects, as you know, other companies that have a business relationship with the company in difficulty. Extending the moratorium too long also sometimes puts other SMEs, other suppliers and other contractors at risk. Too long, it is to create a situation of legal insecurity beyond the economic insecurity that this can constitute. As you said, I know the MR group well, I've been there long enough. I worked with him to draft a bill – which has the advantage of being quick if the political will is there – to adapt the legal arrangements relating to business continuity to the current crisis. Together with Member of Parliament Scourneau, Group Leader Piedboeuf, we have drafted a proposal to make judicial reorganization procedures more flexible. This reorganization is an alternative to bankruptcy and is unfortunately still too difficult to access today. As a result of the various exchanges we have already had on this issue, the MR Group's proposal is therefore intended to improve this access and provides in particular for the possibility for the president of the company's court to grant time limits commensurate with the needs of the debtor, the time to enable the debtor to resolve liquidity problems in particular economic circumstances. Such a decision could be taken in the light of the debtor's situation and the damage caused by the measure to the creditor and the general interest. The President could therefore modulate this suspension in order to safeguard certain interests such as those of a supplier who is in great difficulty as a result of the suspension. Our proposal is the result of a work of balance drawn up in collaboration with a group of experts and several magistrates, with the aim of remedying the problem on the ground in the best possible way. I have been able to read in the press various opinions on the issue from court presidents who, in my view, support our approach. I therefore believe that our proposal can be an alternative to the moratorium. It is up to you to decide what action to take on this proposal in Parliament, and I know that you have had discussions on this issue. In any case, the sooner a proposal to relax the judicial reorganization procedure will be voted on, the better. I would therefore urge you to start discussions on this at this afternoon's meetings. For my part, I am continuing my contacts with the MR Group, which asked for the urgency last week, which was accepted. You have to go fast! It would be foolish to vote on this proposal in September. It must now be approved. In my view, this is indeed a socio-economic priority. Even yesterday, the MR Group insisted on this. In my view, this proposal of general interest, which goes beyond division, must be of interest to all parties. Such a text can be brought together very quickly, so as to provide the very concrete response that our companies and our independents need.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic211x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answer. I confirm that we will be debating this text later. As I was telling you, the Ecolo-Groen Group is convinced of the need to reform the judicial reorganization procedure, with a view to making it more flexible and more accessible, but also more discreet, in some respects, for SMEs and the self-employed. In this way, they may have time to reorganize themselves vis-à-vis their creditors. In any case, it is certain that between the end of the moratorium – which takes effect today – and the vote on the text, a period of time will pass – within a few weeks maximum. It is not a question of holding the discussions. We believe that it is relevant and constructive to develop continuity until the text is voted on in plenary. Thus, we avoid a sudden interruption, before the establishment of a new system, and offer a perspective to all those who are experiencing great difficulties. Again, it is the smallest structures that are involved. If I talk a lot about SMEs and the self-employed, it is because they are often the first to endure the worst problems when a situation of quasi-bankruptcy and balance sheet deposit occurs. So this is a suggestion that I will make earlier. A few weeks ago, we tabled a motion for a resolution, which incorporated it. I will therefore ask for a link to be established with the text to be discussed by the MR Group. In short, as you say, this debate is essential. Indeed, the very structure of our judicial bodies in terms of effective support in the event of bankruptcy is at stake. We are convinced of that. We will therefore ask colleagues whether they approve of our proposal in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic211x.u23	Mr President, the moratorium on bankruptcies and seizures was necessary. Some would not wish to extend it, but this should not be an obstacle to activating a proposal for greater accessibility of the PRJ. Political blockages and compromises in bankruptcy and seizure are likely to be avoided. We do not have time for political and partisan blockages on such a sensitive subject, I know that you are aware of that.
