ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u1	Good morning, Minister. I will take the few minutes available to remind Members of Parliament of the progress of the debate. Each group will have a set time depending on its size to ask questions. For example, the first group, the N-VA, will have eight minutes. Group time will vary from eight to six or three minutes. At the end of all the questions, you will obviously be given the time to answer. It will last from forty-five minutes to one hour, but we are not a few minutes away. What is important, Minister, is to allow time for the reply, later, for Parliament. Are you available to stay with us until a fixed or indefinite time?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u2	Mr. President, according to my schedule, I normally have to leave you around 5:00, but I don't know what you think. I can risk leaving at 5:15 p.m. or 5:30 p.m. if it makes you feel better.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u3	It is difficult to say what suits us; in this case, it will be very short. Usually we start half an hour, maybe three-quarters an hour earlier. Freedom is granted to everyone, according to their time of speech, but the ideal for members is to refer to their questions. The more we refer to our questions, ladies and gentlemen, the more fortunate we will be to have answers to our questions. That is still what we want, as well as replying. Minister, please ensure that your responses are as direct and effective as possible. For our part, we will ensure that we adhere to the same rigour in the questions that we are going to ask you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u4	All right!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u5	Colleagues, the N-VA Group may begin first. She has about eight minutes to ask her questions. I call Mrs Gijbels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u6	Mr President, Minister, I tabled a number of questions a while ago. They will be included in the report, but they are no longer all equally topical. You may have seen that, too. However, I would like to come back to a number of points. I've asked questions about Sciensano's reports before. It always displays cards with color codes, the positivity ratio and the number of tests per province. I find it striking that the positivity ratio in Wallonia is still higher than in Flanders, while the number of tests is still lower there than in Flanders. Is this being investigated and remediated? With regard to the national testing platform, I see in the last Sciensano report that these test labs hardly need to intervene anymore and that testing can be assured by the clinical labs. Are the test labs now operational if necessary? Do they have all the necessary equipment to get to work if necessary? It is a pity that it would now turn out that they are no longer needed, while they were badly needed a while ago and the test criteria even needed to be adapted so that the labs could do their job. The opinions that have been issued on Christmas and New Year are very strict and the people are shocked and still a little disappointed. Have you taken into account the curve that is currently falling? For example, if we look at the curve presented by Professor Barbé, we can see that the curve is rather low around the Christmas period, so I imagine it will be very difficult to give such strict advice. Is there room for adjustment? Finally, the Resengo app is an app developed by the catering industry to map together with the Coronalert app how many infections occur in the catering industry. Is that something that happens in collaboration with the FPS Public Health or with Sciensano? Are you aware of that? Do you consider setting up test projects to see how the catering industry can get back to work?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u7	Mr President, Minister, I only have two brief questions. I had submitted it before, but because I had not yet received an answer to it, I retabled it. These are items 1.13 and 1.18. I've asked several questions about the care staff. You have already answered several questions, except one. During the period of less testing on COVID-19, home care could make less use of the bonus. How will this be resolved? I also asked another question about lifestyle improvements when discussing the policy paper. This fits well with the current situation, because two newspapers said that scientists would also argue that more should be done in this area, especially in the context of corona. Lifestyle improvements are an important protection against corona and for survival. We see other countries taking initiatives in this area. Do you want to introduce an accelerated approach in this area? You mentioned a number of measures in plenary. You said it was a total package. Are you going to put forward the planned measures on lifestyle improvements so that we can better arm the population against corona?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u8	Minister, I have also tabled a whole series of questions. I look forward to the state of play of the task force vaccination and target groups. We have heard this afternoon that the EEA will give its approval for a number of covid vaccines this year. Are you ready to vaccinate immediately, once the approval is received? In the meantime, have you found enough syringes for those vaccinations? When will they be delivered? Will they be delivered at the time of approval? A further question concerns the organisation of crisis management. We have heard in the Covid Committee that the flow of information is not always good and transparent. I am thinking, for example, of advice on the strategic stock of mouth masks. With regard to the closure or non-closure of non-essential shops, you said yesterday that you would make all the opinions public. Wouldn't it be better if all the opinions were public and flowed to all levels? That is also what we heard in the Covid Committee. Then we can focus on transparency and we can really follow the decision-making process. If you or your colleagues do not follow certain opinions on the Consultation Committee, then Parliament can be held accountable and we can move forward with that decision. We can therefore know why certain decisions have been taken. I also asked a question about the role of the Corona Commissioner. However, I have another question. I heard in a statement that the Corona Commissioner would publish a guide to inspiration for Christmas, New Year and New Year. Minister, I wonder what that means. Is that the function of the corona commissioner? Will he advise to eat fish better than meat on the gourmet table? All madness on a stick, but the corona commissioner has very important tasks, namely preparing the vaccination, buying syringes, transport, registration and so on. How is it that such statements create confusion in the press? I asked you during a previous topical debate about the rules on the Red Cross volunteers. Can you give me an update on that? Will they be able to carry out tests or not? Finally, there is the Remdesivir story. You told me on 30 October 2020 that there was sufficient stock. I asked you at that time whether you were also targeting enough, in particular whether the patients who are sufficiently ill but not yet intubated are being given Remdesivir. I have a few specific questions about this. When exactly was the Remdesivir stock scarce? What guidelines do physicians receive for the use and administration of Remdesivir? Were you aware of the WHO study and the interim results? Have you contacted your colleagues about this? Did you also seek advice from the EEA on this issue? Do you know whether the CMA or Conditional Marketing Authorisation will be used? Finally, what advice did the FAGG give you when deciding to subscribe to the purchase of Remdesivir?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u9	Mr President, Minister, I refer to my questions Nos 55011030C, 55011031C, 55011032C and 55011033C, which relate to the new testing strategy, the accompanying of quarantined self-employed persons, retrospective contact tracing and the management of long-term VOCID patients. In addition, I have been questioned by paramedics who, it seems, are not included in the list of front-line personnel. Can you clarify that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u10	Mr President, I too will save time by referring to the written version of my questions. 55011203C, 55011204C, 55011206C, 55011207C and 55011209C, so we have more time for the minister and his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u11	Mr President, for the proper form and for the services of transcription, I refer to the questions of Theme 1, which is the only theme, namely Questions Nos 55010967C, 55010968C and 55010969C. Minister, I would like to come back to two points. The first is the management and redistribution of the strategic stockpile of protective equipment by the Red Cross. On November 10, 2020, it was reported that the Red Cross had indicated that the Public Health FPS had mandated it to manage and redistribute the strategic stock of personal protective equipment to health personnel across the country. These include masks, blouses, protective goggles, which will be stored in the 15 Red Cross relief centres and will be made available to general practitioners, home nurses, kines and other paramedical professions. In concrete terms, health personnel will have to register on the FPS website to choose the desired point of withdrawal based on its location. These withdrawal points will be open twice a week: Wednesday evening and Saturday morning. Minister, can you give us more details on the terms of this collaboration? What is the duration of this mandate? How will the intended health care staff be able to obtain this material and on what criteria? How did you ensure that information was properly disseminated to health personnel? Is the FPS website operational within this framework? Mr Minister, since we are in a topical debate, I will not make the economy go back, without controversy, to the recent statements that you have been able to make and for which you have been able to explain yourself, in particular through the press. As was already the case under the previous government, I plead for a controlled, clear communication that does not oppose each other and in which each word is weighed. That seems essential to me. Your communication is what it is. I believe that this will also allow you to re-explain your remarks to parliamentarians. The most problematic is that this communication was incorrect in substance and clumsy in form. It should have been pointed out from the outset - there would have been no controversy and it would have extinguished all the fires - that we needed to take strong action at the time. These strong measures were the result of very long discussions, in particular with the experts and following an inquiry by the health sector, the hospital sector, which was calling for relief because the hospitals were again overloaded and there was a need to restrict contacts drastically. These decisions were difficult to make but, despite this difficulty, we see that they are now bearing fruit and that the curve is constantly decreasing. However, these measures had to be taken so that schools could be reopened, traffic on public transport was more fluid and, above all, the contamination curve had to be changed. In my view, these difficult measures have made it possible to move from a dramatic situation to a situation that remains complicated but is now more operationally manageable. This episode, which we will no longer talk about in the coming days, which will allow you to focus fully again on the crisis, must show us how much we obviously need to weigh every word in the communication and avoid raising the sectors against each other. Indeed, today, more than ever, we need solidarity, and above all no opposition. In short, it is a slight communication trait which, I hope, will not happen again, but which demonstrates the need for clear communication, especially if we are to achieve long-term public support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u12	Mr President, I will try to be brief. My first question concerns the effectiveness of coronavirus vaccines, which we are talking about a lot at the moment. Do we know whether these vaccines protect from symptoms of the disease or whether they also prevent its transmission? How long is immunity maintained after a patient has been vaccinated? Does vaccine effectiveness vary according to the patient's age? Astra Zeneca - the pharmaceutical company with which Belgium has entered into a contract - recently announced that its vaccine has an efficacy rate of 70%, which is significantly lower than that of its competitors. Does Belgium still intend to buy these vaccines? With regard to the vaccination campaign, it is known that Belgium is preparing to receive and distribute the vaccines. In fact, a task force has been set up to coordinate the implementation of this quite specific vaccination campaign. This raises many questions, particularly in terms of vaccination strategy, but it also represents a real logistical challenge. Could you take stock with us of the progress that has been made in the various working groups? When should our vaccination plan be implemented? I conclude with the question of wearing the mask during childbirth. Since the first confinement, women have been forced to give birth by wearing a mask. In Belgium, only four maternity wards throughout the country allow birth without this mask. One obviously imagines the anxiety, the questions, the anxiety that this can cause in mothers as one knows the importance of breathing during childbirth. In fact, the WHO does not recommend wearing the mask. Other maternity wards that require the mask to be worn do so by following certain procedures. The problem is that in Belgium there are no clear national regulations on childbirth at this time of VOCID-19. Hospitals, therefore, decide the rules themselves. Of course, there are disparities. Are there any scientific data and studies on the consequences of wearing the mask during childbirth? Should we not, minister, standardize the rules in this area? Is there any plans to establish a standardized protocol for all hospitals in the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u13	Minister, for my part, I shall refer to the questions that I have tabled in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u14	Mr President, Minister, some of my questions have already been asked by colleagues, but I will repeat them. My first question is about the shots for the vaccines. How's that going? You confirmed at the committee meeting on 13 November that they will indeed be on the order of the vaccines, but Mr De Cuyper of the FAGG said in the special committee COOVID-19 that this is not the case at all and that we are actually looking for other syringes. Can you now state clearly what the fork is about the vaccine syringes, Minister? Will they join the vaccines? If not, where will you find the solution to that problem? As far as the priority list is concerned, I also have a question. In the Seventh Day, you made it clear that the administration of the vaccine would not be chaotic. Let us hope that something will succeed in the whole debacle of crisis management. What progress has been made on the list of priority groups? Everyone agrees that the healthcare sector should certainly be a priority, but have you also taken into account professions that are not in the spotlight, such as important groups such as dock workers and seafarers, which need to stay longer at sea, which makes the shift of the guard more difficult? So I ask you not to forget those less well-known groups. When and how will the list be published? I also have a question about hospitalization insurance. Most people have normal hospitalization insurance. This means that the health care is covered for one month before the admission and three months after the admission. Due to corona, non-urgent treatments have stopped at certain times. What happens to the post-treatment if it falls just outside the three-month period after the intake? Is the patient still paying for the health care for which he actually paid a premium? Nor can he himself do much about the fact that the treatment is just outside that period. Will hospitalisation insurance be a little mild and adaptable in this respect, or will you take steps to do so, Minister? I also have questions about the change in the corona measures, especially at the opening of the public swimming pools this week, while it is generally known that pools are a source of bacteria, viruses and I know what. However, private saunas and private wellness centres should not be opened, although they are smaller places that can be better controlled. What scientific insight is the measure to reopen the public swimming pools and not the private saunas and wellness centres? Are you aware of the legal steps that the sector intends to take in this respect? Then I come to the case of Remdesivir, the next step in the soap opera of the corona crisis. Apparently, after the WHO informed you of the fact that Remdesivir is not really very effective for covid patients, you decided to order such medicines for an amount of EUR 4.27 million. This would allow 2,000 covid patients to be treated, which would amount to EUR 2,100 per patient. This is a considerable amount of money, which is still a considerable amount of money, if we know that the production price is only EUR 6. So it is certainly time to talk to the pharmaceutical industry, to avoid such situations in the future. Were you aware of the WHO's recommendations? If so, when and on what basis did you not follow that recommendation? If not, what is the reason for that? How did the price negotiation with the pharmaceutical industry go? Does every country pay the same amount? Remdesivir is an antiebola medicine. How much did the drug cost when it was used during the Ebola outbreak? Will the medicine still be used against COVID-19? How much does the patient have to pay for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u15	Mr President, Minister, I will quickly go through my questions. In the Netherlands vaccination against COVID-19 will not be compulsory. If I have looked at your statements in the media, we are not going to do so here in our country. In this connection, you said that you would call for solidarity between people and common sense. As far as the latter is concerned, I should be careful, because that is about the only thing in this world that is fairly divided, because everyone thinks he has enough of that. Your Dutch colleague from Health, Mr de Jonge, is thinking of rewarding volunteers in one way or another, for example by imposing less stringent measures. He is joined by the Australian philosopher and bio-ethicist Savulescu. He says that otherwise we will never reach the 70 to 80 % required for group immunity. In the written record of my question, I have asked you a lot of questions. To sum up, I would like to know your opinion on this principle of quid pro quo with regard to vaccination. My second question concerns the vaccination of the care staff. You know that this vaccination has a dual purpose, namely to protect both the care staff and the patients. I would like to know whether you will add the vaccination against COVID-19 to the list of mandatory vaccinations for the care staff. I'm sure you know that KB. In the Netherlands, non-vaccine care workers are being denied access to certain departments of health care institutions. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u16	Mr President, Minister, I will come back to my questions tabled; but you will allow me a word on your remarks concerning the closure of shops, decided without any scientific basis or health obligation. We were appalled by your statement. We have no lessons to teach you and I have heard your explanations about the experts' opinions. However, your remarks have simply been devastating for the image of the management that the new government is leading, and extremely hurtful for these workers. Imagine, how can you now do on the ground – and I am a mayor – to make people and independents adhere to the health measures that are being taken? People just feel like they've been lied to. The self-employed respect the measures, find themselves without activity, risk sanctions. Then you tell them that they have turned off their activity without a scientific basis and to create a shock. This shock is doubled today. I therefore have a specific request, because we must restore confidence and the general situation quickly and clearly. I ask you, from now on, that all scientific information which requires a measure of closure of professional sectors be communicated in the most transparent way, for all sectors and for all contact professions. The latter were also in total incomprehension, while they respected the rules and also invested in it. It is a precise demand for working methods that can, I think, help in crisis management. We are experiencing an unprecedented health crisis. For many, transparency is essential. Minister, I will ask you very briefly my five other questions for our debate. First of all, on wearing the mask for those under the age of 12. Several European countries have imposed it for six years, in France, Spain and Greece. While there is currently no consensus among the scientific community, on 10 November, the RAG, in its note entitled Transmission of SARS-COV-2 to primary school, states that the risk of transmission of the virus should be reduced by other risk mitigation measures. In view of the transmission, Christelle Meuris, an infectious scientist at the CHU in Liège, is currently conducting a study. Dr. Meuris' first observation is clear: "Children are affected by the virus in school. We have to stop having a taboo on it." You know that six months ago, it was said that the mask was not necessary, that the virus affected almost exclusively people over the age of 65. We see what's happening today. Minister, three questions about this. Has the RAG been able to study the phenomenon in detail? What are the contacts with WHO on this subject? Have you learned of Dr. Meuris' study in Liège? What conclusions do you draw? The open school will remain open only if it is secure; and I will add that our children are not laboratory rats. Secondly, as you said, vaccination will be an intrabelgian solidarity test. Recently, the federal spokesperson stated that the supply of available vaccines would not meet the demand of the population. Can you provide concrete answers about the implementation of vaccination? What have the federated entities and the federal government decided? What is the status of the new task force? Why are we talking about the end of the first quarter in Belgium and the beginning of January in France? Thirdly, what information is available on the choice of vaccines appropriate to specific categories of the population? In other words, who will have to receive a vaccine? With regard to transport and storage conditions, what decisions have you taken? Which places have you identified as priorities and available for this operation? As for the testing strategy, it is undeniably lagging behind. I've already asked you about the expertise of official pharmacists in antigenics. Eight days ago, the task force leader reported that a million antigenic tests were being stored and expected to be used. What's your status? Has the French approach to compendial testing been examined? Is a rapid testing campaign planned with the official pharmacists who wish to do so? What is the amount of antigenic tests currently stored? Finally, several studies have shown that the virus remains on certain surfaces for several hours. A few months ago, the effectiveness of a self-disinfecting coating was confirmed by the ULg laboratories. Has a crisis cell been set up to speed up the approval of applications for the manufacture of such innovative and useful products? Moreover, we know that there are also others. Do you know what notices and authorizations the federal government has issued to Lithcote Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u17	Mr Bacquelaine, unfortunately you have a minute left. I hope it will be enough for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u18	Minister, I come back to vaccination and membership in the crucial vaccination campaign. Through the polls, we see that the rate of accession is not maximum, far from it. It therefore seems to me that the way in which we are going to organise vaccination is absolutely crucial to maintaining strong membership and to obtaining this collective immunity that we are aiming for. To do so, at least 70% of people must be vaccinated. It is therefore necessary to use all possible local relays, including general practitioners and pharmacists. Therefore, consultation with professional organisations is essential. Similarly, clear information must be readily available. I do not claim that we are taking part in a race, but we must observe what is being done in other countries. We must be able to develop a vaccination campaign in the same time frame as most European countries. It is important to anticipate things well by being transparent about stocks and orders. Indeed, these elements are necessary to establish a relationship of trust. It will also be necessary to be transparent in terms of the budget, with respect to the respective share of federal entities and the federal government. It would appear that there is no very clear agreement on this matter or, in any case, that the interpretations are very divergent. That is why we need to clarify things because communication is fundamental, as was once again evident from the statements made this weekend. It is essential to maintain a level of confidence among the population. When you specify criteria, (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u19	Mr Bacquelaine, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u20	All of these criteria must be scientifically supported to establish a relationship of trust with the population. This is the basis for a successful strategy. I therefore invite you to consider reconvening the Consultation Committee in December to review all the measures and give a very clear programme to the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u21	Minister, I refer to my written questions. I'd like to pick up on two more questions, about the medical equipment and the vaccination plan. Do we certainly have enough stocks? There are a lot of signals coming from the first line where there are concerns about this. As far as the vaccine itself is concerned, I wonder if bioengineers are involved in its purchase. I've had a lot of conversations with Belgian bio-engineers. They are concerned about the way the vaccine is currently being purchased. The technique used is mRNA, which is not so well known in the open market. Are you aware of that? Are there any conversations about that? Can you give us more insight into the discussions that are taking place on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u22	Mr President, first of all I am referring to my question No 55011212C concerning the flu vaccine because it is intimately linked to the crisis of the coronavirus. Many of our patients, for example with at-risk lung pathologies, are still waiting for their vaccine. I would therefore like to know what their chances are and what the minister is putting in place. My second question concerns yesterday's communication. Minister, I did not believe my ears when I heard your statements that the closure of non-essential stores had been decided primarily to cause an electroshock. I can tell you that this electroshock, indeed, has also brought its lot of suffering especially to small traders. They were very shocked by what you said. Today, we don't need communication at the false limit. We need a truly effective approach to this virus, and we have heard little about it in the last few days. Can you take stock of the testing approach? Do the results now arrive within 24 hours? What about the tracing, that angle I'd call almost dead? Today, in Belgium, we know very little about the outbreaks of contamination. It is at the heart of the debate. Where do people mainly contaminate themselves? Where are we in the fight against this? My third question concerns the brake desivir affair. Several colleagues have already mentioned this. This is a nice lesson in pharmaceutical banditism, I believe. Gilead has used the pandemic to quickly make a lot of profit. It is clear that the bad results of remdesivir were withheld during the negotiations with Europe. At that time there was a shortage in Europe. We can also ask ourselves about this. Belgium bought a cat in a bag. It has bought an inefficient medicine for more than 4 million euros. Did you not read the opinion of the World Health Organisation between 15 October and the time when Belgium signed that contract? Who advised you? What is your opinion on the price, by the way? That's part of the scandal, too. Gilead asked 2,430 euros for that medicine that actually costs only 6 euros to produce. We also know... The question is, where is this remdesivir stock going now? Is remdesivir used in Belgium? Do you intend to take legal action against Gilead? The company has clearly withheld information. In fact, it has not negotiated in a fair way. Do you think that in future there should be more transparency about the contracts that will be concluded, and especially those that will be followed or that have already been signed on vaccination against corona?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u23	I won't read my five questions completely, but I'll highlight four. My first question deals with a study which shows that many doctors do have questions about the corona vaccine. That's normal in itself. It is also normal that they want answers to questions about the composition of the corona vaccine and that they want to know what possible side effects they should be looking for. It is logical that general practitioners should be provided with scientific information on the different vaccines that will be available. I was a little surprised that such a large group of general practitioners says that they will not be vaccinated even before the scientific information is available. Aversion to vaccines is present in an important part of the population. This attitude can only strengthen the attitude of the anti-vaxxers. Do you want or will you take certain actions to convince the doctors? Another question concerns the large corona study of the University of Antwerp. This shows that almost one in three Belgians does not intend to celebrate Christmas in a limited circle. The experts really do fear a rapid increase in contamination rates. Are you planning consultation with the Länder on the strategy to convince people to celebrate Christmas and New Year's Eve in a responsible way? How will you handle this? Mental health care remains a very important issue in this crisis. Recently we heard Mr Lowet, who is part of the expert group Psychology and Corona. He announced that the expert group has prepared a policy paper with tips to maintain mental health care. He noted, however, that these tips were not made available to the public. He also asks questions about the plan to recruit 1,500 additional psychologists. He hopes that these psychologists will not be reached in primary care or the Centers for Mental Health Care. This could put these practices at risk. What will you do with these expert group tips? My final point concerns the incentive premium. This is a very important point. The federal government has provided an exceptional incentive premium of 985 euro gross for hospital staff for their deployment during this corona crisis. We cannot, of course, deny that hospital staff have been working very hard since March in very difficult circumstances. Of course, we are very grateful to those staff members for that. In the meantime, we do see indignation among home nurses, since they also care for COVID-19 patients, especially at home, in the case of patients who were not taken to hospital or who were sent home early from the hospital, in order to give the hospitals extra breathing space. This group of nurses was also confronted with the risk of infection. In addition, they have very often been very loyal in many additional services. Self-employed home nurses went to help in testing and triage centres, jumped into hospitals and also helped in pre-operative testing in hospitals. Mr Minister, why is there no provision for a premium for the latter group of nurses? They are both home nurses employed in a service as self-employed home nurses. They have also worked very hard, as I explained, and they expect to be treated in the same way. What's your vision on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u24	Mrs Jiroflée has informed us that she will unfortunately not be able to join us today. I don't see any other representative for the sp.a. group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u25	Mr President, I refer to Questions Nos 55011044C, 55011045C, 55011046C and 55011208C, which I will update on certain points. First, Mr Minister, in the existential strategy of testing-tracer-isoler, it is my responsibility that the platform bis, at the level of testing, poses a number of problems, and has a use of less than 10% of its capacity, at present. There are a number of practical problems. Can you take stock of this? Do we now have the results within 24 hours in 100% of cases? Has the tracing been strengthened, so that we can identify the clusters but also the super-contaminators? How many people are currently on average plotted per contact case? You know this is an important issue. Finally, what strengthening of support to ensure the effectiveness of isolation have we put in place today? What is the rate of truly isolated people who are positive? I refer to my questions about caregivers and the €985 bonus. I've been following you on this for several weeks. This bonus has been forgotten for home nurses. I also refer to my questions about influenza vaccine and vitamin D supplement. I would like to turn to VOCID-19 vaccination. Any delay in vaccination will be paid for in health terms by a recurrence during a possible new wave, but also in economic terms. The majority of European countries are now much more advanced in their VOCID-19 vaccination programme, not only on paper, but also in practical reality: storage, distribution, sufficient equipment, sufficient personnel to vaccinate. You know that the European Medicines Agency is already looking at vaccines today. She could decide in a very short time. Yes or no, and not only on paper, but in practice, on the ground, will we be well prepared for December 15th? Will there be full transparency of scientific data as well as contracts? How can we move forward on the accession of all the people who will have to be vaccinated, starting with the priority people? Another aspect: you know that I have always argued for very strong measures to deal with the gravity of the VOCID-19 and communication is a part of the strategy that is at least as important as barrier measures. Indeed, it is vital for citizens' adherence to health measures and for our ability to deal collectively with the crisis. Minister, the communication of the last few days has been deplorable and has been characterized by several episodes, the first being that of Christmas holidays. Indeed, in the aftermath of the Conciliation Committee, two Deputy Prime Ministers announced that they could consider relaxing the rules for Christmas, to which you replied that it was totally excluded. Then there was your talk on camera, according to which shopping did not, in the end, involve a risk, and the closure of essential shops allowed for psychological shock. You might as well say that these words have been extraordinarily misperceived by the independents, the traders and all those who have been economically rolled – and still are today. Such statements are grievous in terms of health, as they undermine and completely undermine citizens' adherence to policies, State authority and the citizen's ability to comply with health measures. My last question is about Remdesivir. You ordered 12,300 doses, 13 days after the World Health Organization (WHO) said it was not relevant. However, I am even more concerned about the fact that, at the beginning of October, the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS) had indicated that there was a stock five times higher than the stock that had already been distributed in hospitals across the country, so that there was a clear indication that there were sufficient stocks. Therefore, why did you rush to this order, especially given the scientific elements that did not go in the same direction as yours?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u26	I give the floor to the last speaker in this first round. I also count on your dexterity, Mrs Rohonyi, to respect a certain degree of rigour, as your colleagues have done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u27	I refer to my written questions Nos. 10788, 11051, 11052, 11053, 11055, 11058 and 11228. First of all, Minister, I, like my colleagues, must go back to your recent statements. Indeed, as long as we had no other choice, last month, to limit social contacts and close businesses to respond to the critical situation in our hospitals, I found your statements indecent. No one today needs shock measures. What we need today is rational and well-founded measures, and that is what makes it necessary for the people to adhere to these measures. On the other hand, your remarks have been a real insult to all those for whom this closure has sometimes been fatal. I'm thinking about Alysson, but I'm also thinking about all those traders who are laughing today. Minister, first of all, are you going to apologize for this? Would it not be time to have reliable scientific data to decide which sectors can reopen without risk? Will the measures eventually evolve in the coming weeks rather than in mid-January? I am thinking in particular of the contact trades. I also wanted to address the issue of the new barometer. In committee, and the Prime Minister in plenary last Thursday, we were told that the barometer was on the table of the concertation committee. However, this barometer has not yet been presented. Press reports indicate that there would be two phases in this barometer, which would not be called a barometer, a downward phase and a management phase, with flexibilities that would be possible if several cumulative conditions were encountered. However, when none of these conditions were met last Friday, the valve was released. I'm not going back to the business decision. I think that from the moment the strict health protocol is respected, this should not be a problem. That is what the experts have expressed. But then, what is the use of this barometer today if, from the moment it exists, in any case on paper, you do not even respect it? As far as vaccines are concerned, we have just learned that Pfizer has just submitted its application for approval to the European Medicines Agency, and that if this vaccine could be approved quickly, it could be available in mid-January. Are we ready? Where are we in our vaccination strategy? You announced a month ago the establishment of this vaccination task force; and it has also been almost three months now, at Parliament level, that we are trying to get answers. I think it is more than time, both in terms of logistics and in terms of communication with the population. Finally, I would like to conclude with the Remdésivir file. Indeed, at the end of October Belgium spent EUR 4.3 million on this medicine, even though it had been considered ineffective two weeks earlier by the WHO. Once again, it is a choice that undermines the population's adherence to the measures. So how do you justify this purchase today? Can you tell us, if the use of this medicine is confirmed by the study currently under way by the European Medicines Agency, what are you going to do? Is a refund possible? In other words, was a clause subject to validation included in the purchase contract?.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u28	Thank you, colleagues. You have all been particularly zealous today. We will give the floor to the minister without further delay. Minister, as far as possible, we propose that you leave on a 45-minute timing, but of course, if you need a few more minutes, we will leave them to you without a doubt. We're all listening to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u29	Mr President, I will try to be very brief, although some Members have referred in thirty seconds to five questions, to which I have answered pages. I'm gonna get organized here. May I begin with what may be the most frustrating thing for the members of the committee and actually for myself, and that is the following? You ask me many rather precise questions about the vaccination campaign, fair and good questions, but this is a campaign in our country that we have to decide on together with the Regions and the Communities, just as we have to decide on implementation. I cannot anticipate decisions that we must finally take with colleagues from the Regions and the Communities at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. We have set up an interfederal task force and it must therefore also work on instructions from the Inter-Ministerial Conference. I think I can say that the task force is quite advanced and that he has looked at and looked at the problems that have rightly been highlighted here. I refer, among other things, to the problem of adhésion, i.e. the persuasiveness of a vaccination campaign, the problem of priorities in the target groups, the problem of the availability of the necessary material. I don't think, Mrs Sneppe, that I ever said that the syringes are delivered with the vaccine. That seems to me to be a misunderstanding. I just said that we need to make sure that the material is there, and that includes the syringes. That's something else. Either way, that's a challenge to tackle. Mr President, I hope you will understand that, before there is an agreement on the organisation of the campaign with the colleagues of the Regions and Communities, I will not give more details than I have done on previous occasions. The general view of the target groups and the priorities is, of course, based on the advice given by the Supreme Court. As for the speed with which we want to work, of course we need to be ready when the vaccines are delivered, so that we can begin to vaccinate, that's right. But you must understand that I will not begin to answer instead of my colleagues. I have to make decisions with my colleagues. There is an inter-ministerial conference tomorrow and, normally, we will discuss it again tomorrow. If tomorrow we are sufficiently advanced in defining an operational strategy together, it will also be communicated. I understand the frustration; it is also frustrating for me. However, not only the Federal Chamber should ask ministers to be accountable, that task also belongs to other parliaments. Before I go into the more specific questions, I would therefore like to wait until I have knocked things off with my colleagues. So the questions are relevant. The fact that the committee underlines the need to convince the population is absolutely relevant. Specific issues mentioned are absolutely relevant. However, I will not go into it for the time being. I can answer a punctual question from Mr De Caluwé about the home nurses much faster. Yes, Mr De Caluwe, it is indeed the intention that the home nurses who are federally financed should also receive a year-end premium which is net equivalent to what employees get. It is intended that people who work in home care and are federally financed as employees should also receive this exceptional end-of-year bonus, and it is explicitly our intention that self-employed home nurses should also receive a fully equivalent one-off financial compensation. I am well advanced in the way it is being worked out, and we will certainly introduce the measure; you can count on it. Mrs Van Camp asked about home nurses if they might miss the increased compensation. The answer is somewhat technical. The benefits in kind identified by codes 419333 and 419355 refer to the follow-up and supervision at home of a patient with a COVID-19-related problem diagnosed by a doctor. This concerns a patient who is suspected of being infected or infected or who has lost the usual care network due to the COVID-19 measures, asking the nurse to regularly monitor important parameters and monitor the general state of health. This is stated in Articles 57 and 58 of Royal Decree No. 20 laying down temporary measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic and to ensure continuity of care in compulsory medical care insurance. Having a positive test result is therefore not a condition for reimbursement. It concerns new and temporary benefits in kind since March of this year to meet needs in the field and which include specific nursing actions. It is therefore not a question of increased remuneration. The important thing in the answer is that a positive test result should not be presented as a condition for the refund. That seems to me to be the most important concrete element, which you are concerned about, Mrs Van Camp. Ms. Hmente referred to the situation of paramedics. It is true that paramedics are not included in hospital staff. This is due to the fact that, for the vast majority of hospitals, it is not the hospital staff. There are outsourcing contracts with ambulance services. Only a few hospitals have a small group of ambulances taken over in their payroll. They have traditionally not been involved in social agreements for hospital staff. We have therefore not included them in the specific agreement on the exceptional end-of-year premium. This means that if some hospitals want to do something for the few paramedics in their payroll, unfortunately they have to find a solution for themselves. But this situation is not new if we look at the other social agreements that have been negotiated in the past. With regard to remdesivir, I would like to outline the timeline. I think it answers many things. Remdesivir is a medicine that has come to mind as a useful medicine in the treatment of some covid patients. Those treatments are carried out on the basis of directives adopted by Sciensano and which also correspond to what the European Medicines Agency says about them. There have been doubts about remdesivir following a communication from the World Health Organisation on 15 October, on the basis of an interim report. That report actually said: it is possible that the medicine has little or no effect. On 29 October we ordered on the basis of the directives of Sciensano and the European Medicines Agency. I can't tell you how big the stocks are today. I don't know. But the available stock was rapidly shrinking. So there was reason to order, in the context in which there were different signals about the scientific evidention. The World Health Organisation had doubts, but Sciensano and the European Medicines Agency were positive. On 20 November, the World Health Organisation officially demonstrated that, on the basis of its studies, there would be no effect or hardly any effect, while the European Medicines Agency still said that it is a useful medicine based on a particular type of use, based on their guidelines. At that time, on 20 November, we said not to order anymore. We placed the orders on hold. At the moment we are actually awaiting further results from the European Medicines Agency. We hope that these results will come soon. The European Medicines Agency requested clinical data in order to carry out complete analyses. It is now in the process of evaluating it and we hope to have an updated evaluation report from the European Medicines Agency shortly. The following I say as an additional element, not really as an argument of authority. The European Commission has published its European pharmaceutical strategy. In this document, published on 25 November, the European Commission praises itself for ordering EUR 70 million from this medicine, Veklury. So Belgium was absolutely not exceptional. We have taken it for granted. As long as the European Medicines Agency and Sciensano said it was a good medicine and that it could be used on the basis of certain directives, we followed that recommendation. There was a first clear signal of doubt from the World Health Organisation in an interim report on 15 October, but we still had the positive directives, the positive recommendation from the European Medicines Agency. We have taken it for granted. On 20 November, the World Health Organisation stated definitively that it is certain that it is not or hardly helping. So we haven't ordered it anymore. To be honest, I do not know whether, in such a case, we should act in a different way. We have taken it for granted. One sometimes encounters evolving scientific evidence. Sometimes one also encounters conflicting guidelines or messages. There were several questions about the testing. The federal government has ordered 100,000 antigen rapid tests each time from five different manufacturers, i.e. 500,000 in total. At present, 100,000 have been delivered. The other deliveries are expected this week and in the coming weeks. A public invitation to tender for 3.5 million additional tests will be published shortly. At present, rapid tests can already be used in hospitals, in symptomatic patients, and in cluster studies, in low risk profile collections, not in care facilities. Pilot projects will be launched in the coming weeks to test symptomatic patients in both testing and triage centres and in general practitioners' practices. A pilot project will also be launched in Flanders to use rapid tests to test high risk contacts in schools at the start of a quarantine. In that case, a negative test has no impact on the quarantine, but that method allows to initiate further contact research around the positive persons. There is currently no plan to deploy rapid antigen tests at airports. The doctors have been informed of the changes in the test strategy. Representatives of the scientific associations of general practitioners are also involved in the work of the task force testing. Pilot projects at first line level are being prepared in close cooperation with them. We are in the process of developing a legal framework for these rapid antigenic tests, with a view to their employment within or outside compulsory health insurance. This law will determine to which target groups these tests can be applied, which tests can be used, who can carry them out, where they can be carried out, and when a refund can be made. Given their potential impact on many sectors, this bill will be submitted to you as soon as possible. We will also seek a solution for Red Cross volunteers. We are looking for a solution to deal responsibly with the question of Mr Weyts, at Flemish level, in a well-controlled environment, in order to be able to use the Red Cross volunteers. Then questions were asked about the federal testing platform. I think it was Mrs Fonck who pointed to specific problems. In fact, I do not have any information about this at this time, Ms. Fonck. Maybe you have information I don't have. I can tell you that all the labs on the testing platform are currently operational. All labs, with the exception of the lab of the University of Namur which only started on 23 November, have a capacity of between 2,000 and 4,000 tests per day. The University of Liège has been active for a long time and has a daily capacity of 8,000 tests per day. By early January, a number of labs are expected to be able to scale further to 6,000 tests per day. For other labs, the required equipment for scaling up will only be delivered in mid-January and the scaling up will take place later. At maximum capacity, the labs are expected to perform about 8,000 tests a day. The contract with Eurofins runs until the end of November. This guarantees our capacity from 5,000 to 8,000 tests a day. Quarantine tracking. The call centres have been extra staffed by all the states in recent weeks, which means that there is now sufficient manpower to carry out the necessary telephone calls. Following the adaptation of the test strategy, in particular the retest of all high-risk contacts, the scripts for the call agents and the field agents were adapted so that they can pass on the correct information. The SMS system and messages in the Coronalert app have also been modified. To facilitate the source research, the call center scripts have been updated since August, asking whereabouts of the infected persons and high-risk contacts. It checks where the person concerned has been, was in contact with them and where the person himself thinks he has been infected. On this basis, health inspectors, field agents, local trackers, only in Flanders, and mobile teams, including in Flanders, can continue their search to analyse where the source of the infection is and whether there is cluster contamination. The IFC Testing & Tracing will apply further refinements to the tracing system in the coming weeks to structurally anchor the case management around source research. The Coronalert app has already been downloaded more than 2 million times, i.e. by more than a quarter of all smartphone users. This is a success. To be relevant, when the app was launched, the installation was set as an objective by a percentage of at least 15% of the total population. We have achieved this objective. It remains important to convince the public that the app only uses anonymous data. The biggest challenge is linking the test to the one-time identification of the app. This is done by means of a code of 17 digits, which ensures anonymity. Thanks to the linking of the code to the test, the test result appears in the app and only in this way can a citizen who has tested positive also notify his contacts anonymously via the app. The medical staff who prescribe the test may enter the code of 17 digits online in the electronic prescription form. Moreover, every citizen has been given an activation code since 19 November which allows him or her to connect the app's identification code to his or her test online. Respect for isolation and quarantine is, of course, primarily the responsibility of every citizen involved. Many local authorities take initiatives to contact these people, checking whether they need help and whether the quarantine is being respected. Last Friday, the Consultation Committee decided to tighten up checks on compliance with the mandatory quarantine for persons who were abroad for more than 48 hours. Mrs Depoorter noted that the government Commissioner would do no useful work if he was engaged in an inspirational guide. I have another feeling because I don't think it's necessarily useless. Of course, we have a lot of work to do, but in fact it was precisely the intention of the government Commissioner to act multidisciplinaryly and also to reflect on communication. We will undoubtedly agree that communication in this is very important. As Mrs Van Camp said, the easiest way to strengthen the immune system is to maintain a healthy lifestyle. Prevention is primarily the responsibility of the communities, but of course I think that we too should try to contribute to prevention and a healthy lifestyle with the levers we have at our disposal. You asked whether general prevention campaigns should not be launched to make people more resistant to something like COVID-19. At federal level, as you know, we communicate general hygiene measures. Actually, we are. I also think that I should use the levers in my policy to make maximum use of health prevention, but this is a question that needs to be addressed to a significant extent at community level. Mrs. Depoorter, you want very detailed information on who's working in the corona commissioner's cell. I can get it to you, but I don't know if I should read it all. I'll leave the decision to you. Mrs Sneppe, you asked a question about hospitalization insurance. I'm afraid you're going to have to address the Minister of Economy. The questions about Christmas will be dealt with together in a moment. One question related to the transfer of VOCID patients. Approximately 1,200 transfers have been made since 1 October. These transfers sometimes take place between different linguistic communities, even abroad, and thus away from the patient's place of residence. We know, of course, that the language barrier can complicate management, which is compounded by a feeling of loneliness and uprooting of the patients concerned. In a report broadcast on a large French-language news channel, a Liegeian patient transferred to Limburg stated that he had reached his limits by speaking of the concentration needed to make himself understood at all times. As far as the figures are concerned, I can give you a table. But in general, the return of the land is very positive. Medical solidarity does exist. For the medical world, there is no linguistic or other border, even if the question of language is delicate. People need hospital care. That is the first concern. Mediation budgets are available for all hospital institutions. Does that mean that there is a mediator next to each bed? Our country and the hospital world are populated by a large number of bi- or tri-lingual professionals who, without any help, are able to take care of any citizen of this country. We did not transfer patients to the Netherlands, but we transferred them to Germany. The patients transferred came from the province of Liège, but also and above all from hospitals in the German-speaking region where German is mostly spoken, it seems to me. A question was asked about the additional measures I intend to take to reassure the many patients who fear being transferred to a different language community or abroad. As the number of hospitalizations decreases, the number of transfers will automatically decrease. That said, although the fear of language often proves to be unfounded, I understand it, but I maintain the measures that have been put in place and that have worked. Ms. Taquin asked me about wearing the mask and whether we have any scientific data and studies on the consequences of wearing the mask during childbirth. Actually, I have no knowledge of such scientific data. Should we not homogenize the rules in this area? Well, Mrs Taquin, hospitals have, of course, always had a certain degree of autonomy with regard to infection prevention and control. This degree of autonomy is also logical, because the conditions are often difficult to compare between different hospitals in terms of the spaces. People may or may not lie in individual rooms, the available protective equipment, the speed at which the laboratory results are received and the patient population. Every course of labor and childbirth is different. I therefore assume that each hospital has a responsible hospital hygiene officer, who, on the basis of the general rules and standards, examines what is the best implementation, adapted to the local situation. Is there any plans to establish a standardized protocol in this area? There are general rules regarding the screening of asymptomatic patients, the use of mouth masks by patients and the use of personal protective equipment. I assume that the hospitals implement those rules for both the comfort and well-being of the patient and for the safety of the patient and staff in the context of the covid pandemic. It is a somewhat general answer. I also reply to Mrs Zanchetta, who had asked this question. Mrs Depoorter, as regards the covidte meeting for general practitioners, we will do all we can to ensure that this is done by 20 December. You say that the pharmacies have not yet received a payment of EUR 500 per month. The planned monthly intervention for the period May-August 2020 will be paid by insurance institutions by 31 December 2020, in accordance with the Decision of 30 September 2020 establishing a temporary financial contribution from compulsory medical care insurance. These costs include special protection materials under the covid-19 pandemic. Payment for the period September-November 2020, subject to publication of this deadline in the Belgian Official Journal. In response to Ms Taquin's question about antigen tests in pharmacies, currently the distribution system for EC-labelled in vitro diagnostic tests is free. This means that rapid antigen tests can also be sold in pharmacies. However, there is currently no suitable antigenic test on the European market, i.e. an auto-test. A bill is being drafted to regulate the distribution and use of rapid antigen tests. The federal government has purchased half a million tests that will be tested for utility in pilot projects. A call for tenders for an additional 3.5 million tests will soon be published. I think on testing and tracing, I told you the essentials. There were still questions about the barometer and communication. First of all, I have to come back to the strategy we have agreed on. Mrs Gijbels and many others have talked about this. Mrs Gijbels, I am unfortunately unable to give you a really good answer, which has been scientifically validated, about evolutions and differences in evolutions between our provinces. I'd love to, but I'm not improvising right now. I can't just tell you that. However, I can tell you something about how the figures are evolving and what this means in terms of the management strategy. On the consultation committee with all governments, we approved the figures on the basis of which our management strategy will work. As I said on an earlier occasion, the management strategy means making a distinction between two phases. First there is a phase in which one tries to get out of the storm and drastically reduce the number of infections and restore hospital capacity. If you are there, but you do not yet have a vaccine, then the stage at which you are more or less safe without a vaccine will follow and try to keep it that way. The question is when is one going to be in this safe situation? We agreed on the figures in the conciliation committee, but it is clear that it is not about automatics. It is not a technocratic government in which a merely numerically given dictates what politics does. There is always a qualitative assessment of all the elements on the table. Those essential figures are the following. The number of infections per day over a period of 14 days shall not exceed 800, approximately 800. The correct figure is an incidence of 100 over 14 days per 100,000 inhabitants. 100 per 100,000 inhabitants in 14 days comes down to about 800 daily. We must be under it and we must have been under it for three weeks. There's some sort of safety distance in the time of three weeks when we've gone over that cape, with the average in 14 days below 800 infections. The average number of hospitalizations should then be below 75 over 7 days. Then it is always en- and - these two indicators must be in a downward trend. That was agreed at the conciliation committee as a guideline. It's indicative. So it's not a rigid schedule, it's indicative. It is indicative of the debate on major relaxations and when to conduct them. This means that we have to be there within a week if we want to have a 14-day average of less than 800 infections a day on 31 December for three weeks. That would be a rare miracle. The miracles may not be completely out of the world yet, but it is still very unlikely. It's not realistic. Realism requires saying that if the figures continue to evolve favourably, we will have a look at such figures at the beginning of January. This would be the result of the many efforts that are now being made. That is why the consultation committee is also meeting again at the beginning of January. That's a difficult message because it's taking so long. However, there is also an element of hope and perspective, because the figures are improving. We can ask a lot of people because we will eventually be able to roll out a vaccination campaign, although this will take a long time. Mrs. Gijbels, you're asking if we'll get that cape before Christmas. That's very unlikely. Therefore, the Consultation Committee did not wish to leave any doubt and it was already mentioned that the next meeting would be in early 2021. Then the situation will be evaluated. Hopefully it'll be better. This is an important basis for the population. A volatile framework with a constant change of opinion is not good. Since this government took office, the intrinsic motivation to follow measures has increased systematically. That is not a great achievement for us. Certainly not everything is perfect. The fact that the figures have improved in Belgium is not yet a great victory. I don't poach or bluff about that. That would be totally unjustified. I would hate for you to take that statue home. It is good that we have sent out simple and stable messages. That's the bet, too. In this context, no major relaxations can be implemented before Christmas. That's very unlikely. As far as communication is concerned, it is a little complicated because I have been asked to explain things that I have not said. Mrs Merckx, I did not use the term "electroshock". Never! You can check everywhere. What I said in response to a question from the Terzake program was that a well-controlled reopening of stores posed very little epidemiological risk. That's what I said. I have explained many times – not in this little piece of interview – that the reason why non-essential stores were closed was to limit travel. The argument is this one. An urgent and drastic step was taken quickly to limit displacement. That's why I wanted to use those images that disturbed some of them. But nowhere, Mr. Prévot, I didn't say there was no scientific basis. I'm surprised because I never said that. Please, look! I think we need to avoid reacting on so-called. Check what I said! I didn't say there was no scientific basis. I have, on several occasions, explained why Celeval's opinions were harder than we had decided. Virologists, in particular, also believe that a well-controlled reopening of stores poses a low risk. That is what we are doing as a matter of priority. And when Terzake's reporter asked me whether the argument was more psychological, I told him that the answer was rather no. That's what I said. All this is not very important, but if we want to exegese communication, we must first not listen to those who report what I said but listen to what I said. As far as the background is concerned, we still have to compare what we are doing today with what was done in the first wave. In the first wave, confinement imposed total isolation (prohibition to receive people, to have close contacts beyond the household). We didn't want to do that. People's well-being can't stand it. In the first wave, we continued to close non-essential stores much longer than today, because we learned that it is possible to do this in a controlled, risk-free manner. We have to make that comparison. I personally believe that the great effort that people are being asked to make, and the great difficulty, lies in the fact that this is the second time. That's all the hardness! The first time, containment was much harder, it lasted much longer and we were far further from the peak of contamination and hospitalization before even starting to talk about easing or reopening stores. We took a lot more time, not without reason; but we know this is the second time. And that is why we have not decided on a containment equivalent to isolation. That is why we are now saying that we can reopen the shops in a controlled manner; this is not a great risk. It may be better to do it now and not a week before Christmas, in order to disperse some of the shopping done by people. That is the reasoning and the real debate is there. I think everyone agrees that the second wave is already more painful, both in terms of what is happening in hospitals and in terms of people's well-being and understanding. We must therefore, as the Prime Minister has said well in this Parliament, avoid a third wave at all costs. That's the debate! I come back to a question that I have to frustrate you about, namely vaccination. I believe, indeed, that the real hope, in the long run, is not the vaccine, but a successful vaccination campaign. That's the real hope and I know I'm frustrating you because I'm not saying anything about it. Indeed, we are in the process of discussing and negotiating this matter with other governments in that country. But that is the real hope. I hope I haven't taken too long and answered most of the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u30	Minister, I can assure you that you have remained perfectly in the timing that was given to you. Now it is up to colleagues to see if you have answered their questions. I shall begin by giving the floor to the N-VA Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u31	Minister, there are still a few questions that I have already put, including the number of people who have already installed the app. Do you have a visual on that yet? There were also a number of other questions. You've been talking about the federal testing platform. I understand that we should soon be able to carry out up to 8,000 tests a day. However, I hope that everything will be well communicated with the clinical labs, that they will be fully involved and that they will support this. I hope that there will be no further misunderstandings in this matter. As regards the barometer or the management strategy, as you call it, I understand that a number of guidelines have been agreed at the Conciliation Committee, which are, of course, very strict. On which literature or science are these figures based? Do they match those in other countries? What was the Committee's reflection on just deciding on these figures? Is an on-off button without different levels also common elsewhere, or is it the only country that we are dealing with in this way? I also understand that the figures and corresponding measures do not refer to the regions or provinces, but apply directly to the whole country. That's a missed opportunity. To keep the impact on society as limited as possible, I think it would be more interesting to regulate this at provincial level. You did not answer the question about the cafés and restaurants. There would be an app in development to record the number of infections in that environment. However, I would also like to give you an example from the Netherlands, where a pilot project will be launched or has already been launched, with 25 restaurants participating. It looks at exactly where the risk areas are, where people may be infected and what can be done about them. I would therefore propose that this be done and that we use it usefully in the near future, so that the catering sector can regain hope and know what needs to be done in order to be fully ready by the time the sector can start up again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u32	Thank you very much, Minister, for the clear answers to my questions. I'm very happy with it. That's always useful for the grassroots. I also refer very often to your answers. You handled it that way last time. It always means reassurance for the field, also this time. I have clearly heard about the lifestyle improvements that you want to effectively try to do what is necessary within the domain for which you are competent. I did not hear directly what specific measures you are going to put forward, but the intention is already there and that means a lot to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u33	Mr Minister, I will start with the final point, namely the closure of non-essential shops and their opinions and transparency, especially since I hear that this is still a bit difficult for your coalition partners too. I have Celeval's advice for me. As you say, I would like to quote the following: 'All social contacts must be greatly reduced in the period from 1 to 14 November'. I also read: "There is no consensus on how these contacts are best restricted, by banning all non-essential movements and closing non-essential shops and/or by setting up a five- or ten-mile perimeter, as in France. Exceptional relocation to a second stay is permitted and the persons remain best in their second stay for the rest of the period." I see there was a consensus on closing the contact professions. Above all, I would like to stress that transparency is really important here. If the advice had been public, you could have reported perfectly for what reasons you have taken certain measures. The lack of transparency is a constant problem in the covid crisis, which creates suspicions and suspicions. These discussions do not want our citizens and do not help them. The same applies to remdesivir. You have outlined the timeline very nicely. Of course science is always a bit difficult to follow and several studies contradict each other; after a few years a consensus will be reached. But why can't there be transparency from the beginning? Moreover, I still do not have the pharmacodynamic analysis on remdesivir, and that is what we are talking about when we talk about the prices that have been agreed and promised. That really is a work point. The same applies to the vaccination campaign. You say that you cannot say anything about this, because it must be agreed with the regions, but decisions have already been taken and others have not yet been taken. So if we ask you if you already have syringes and you do not, it is easy to say that you do not have one yet and are still looking for them. That is transparency, that is what the citizens want. The Netherlands will start vaccination on 4 January. I'm telling you we're gonna miss the train again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u34	Mr President, I will also repeat on behalf of Mr Hennuy, because she is no longer able to do so because of connection problems. Thank you, Minister, for answering as many questions as possible. Perhaps I could submit the remaining detailed questions, which also deserve a detailed answer, in writing? For example, I have a question about pneumococcal vaccine and patients who develop pneumonia in combination with COVID-19. Furthermore, I have questions about the fact that results in the Fedris files are waiting and I am in favour of providing sufficient staff for the Risk Assessment Group if it is to take over the tasks of Celeval. Mr Hennuy also indicated that he had some unanswered questions. We will now submit them in writing and I hope that we can count on them being answered more quickly than your predecessor. We are submitting oral questions to get an answer quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u35	I understand. Submit your questions in writing and I will do my best to get an answer soon. You will understand, however, that the administration currently has a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u36	Okay, we will. I will then come to the strategy for rapid testing. You gave the timeline and said that pilot projects are mainly being set up. Three and a half million more will be ordered. If one speaks of rapid tests, this seems to be a contradiction here in terms of terms, because I have the impression that it is not really progressing, although we come back to that dossier every week. Do we evaluate the same rhythm as neighbouring countries? I have the impression that the rapid tests abroad are being implemented more quickly in the national strategies. I can, of course, be wrong, and perhaps I should also put a written question on this, in order to see if we can go faster than the other countries. I have the impression that we were under-utilising the rapid tests. As far as the corona vaccine is concerned, there is indeed a shared responsibility. In my question, I have focused mainly on the federal powers. I believe that transparency can have an effect on acceptance. In the special committee of inquiry into the COVID-19 epidemic, we discussed this last week with representatives of the High Health Council. In that sense, I am concerned about the composition of the committee that you advise. Is that all transparent? Can we already rule out any concerns about conflict of interest? I fear that the corn is on the mill of the anti-vaxers if there is a hint of suspicion. Open communication on this issue therefore seems to me important, as open as possible, as not everything can be made public by the ongoing European negotiations. It is an absolute concern of me that it should be communicated as openly as possible. In the last few days we heard large pharmaceutical companies telling us how effective their vaccines are, with their figures varying between 90 or 95 or 70 and then again 90%. It seems much more logical to me that independent experts report on the effectiveness of vaccines and not the press or pharmaceutical companies in their good news shows. You alone cannot remedy this, because these are initiatives at European level for large companies. Open, transparent and as objective as possible communication is a concern. Those are my concerns for the time being. We will submit the questions of my colleague Hennuy and myself on specific issues in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u37	Minister, with regard to wearing the mask during childbirth, I can understand that it is difficult for you to provide a more precise answer. In any case, as far as I can see, there will be no change if the containment continues as it is. In short, I expected further clarification. No doubt I was distracted for a short time, but I would have liked you to give us more details about the effectiveness of the vaccine and possibly return to the one of AstraZeneca for which we have placed an order. You said that real hope was not based on the vaccine itself, but on a successful vaccination campaign. I can understand that. I was just asking you about the status of the working groups that had been set up to prepare this vaccination and to meet the logistical challenges it represents. I imagine you will come back to the various aspects of this issue in the coming days.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u38	Mr Minister, on behalf of the PS Group, I shall take for a moment the hat of a member of the Committee on Public Health to regret that I have not heard any answers to my questions Nos 55010829C, 55010832C and 55010485C. However, such responses are essential, especially for those who have unfortunately suffered from VOCID. Two months later, some 20% of these people are still suffering the consequences. These are "long VOCID" patients, who suffer from loss of taste and smell, headache, sleep disorders, difficulty breathing and so many other indirect consequences. In addition to VOCID, they now suffer moral, mental and, in the medium term, social as well as professional consequences. Minister, I have not heard a reply about them, but I ask you to pay attention to those people who need us to reach out to them, to put them back on track, to show them that we are here and we will not forget them. This pandemic is new, and we do not yet know all the characteristics. However, we must take care of the effects for all those who are not to become the forgotten of VOCID tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u39	Mr President, for one reason or another, I had not indicated - and this is my fault - your questions. I will not reopen the whole debate, but I can give you my answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u40	Minister, I suggest that you answer the question at the end of the lines. Some other members may not have received answers to all of their questions either. Be aware, in any case, that I have taken note of your apologies and that I do not doubt for a moment that you will answer the questions that remain unanswered. I give the floor to Mr Patrick Prévot for the PS Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answers. To be quite clear, as far as I am concerned, I did not speak of the electroshock, but of a communicative coucac which is all the more unfortunate since I remember what I thought after hearing you for the first time as a minister, after you took your oath. I thought that you had an ability to transmit information in a pedagogical way or, in any case, by showing much more pedagogy than your predecessor did, for which I was very critical. I have a lot of flaws, but I try to stay constant in my criticisms. I had been very critical of the former government's communication. If I come back today to this communicational coumac, it is in particular because I have a lot of hope. Indeed, Minister, I have a great deal of hope for you because you have an important role as Minister of Health. Everyone knows that you are working very hard for the moment and that you can be subjected to an unbridled pace, especially during interviews, but it is necessary that you take 15, 20, or even 30 seconds, as you did on the occasion of your reply, to explain things clearly and avoid artistic blurry most certainly fed by some colleagues, of the majority or not. In any event, I am convinced that communication remains an essential element. I therefore invite you to keep this educational spirit that has so seduced me the day after your oath was given. This aspect is essential if we are to retain as many people as possible for as long as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u42	Minister, I would like to thank you, but in the context of the topical debate I do not know why. Subject to my mistake, my two questions, Nos. 55010867c and 55010874c, unanswered. I can only express the hope that you will not fall back on the mistakes made by your predecessor and that, in the event of enlargement, all colleagues will receive an answer to their questions. Since you have not answered mine, at least for the time being, I will re-table them in the hope of obtaining an answer next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I have a few more small questions. I would like to stress once again that during the discussions at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on the priority list, we should not forget dock workers and seafarers. This is a group that's been working on it all the time. I did not receive an answer to my question about the corona measures of the private saunas and wellness centres. What scientific insight is the measure to open the public swimming pools and not the private ones? Are you aware of the legal steps taken by this sector? About Remdesivir I would have liked to know if this medicine is still used in the therapy and in what cases. In connection with the quarantine, you say you will ensure that there will be stricter controls for those who leave the territory for more than 48 hours. I wonder how you will do that. That's important. You can announce that you will check more, but I would really like to know how you will check more closely. With regard to the measure to close non-essential shops, I would like to point out that the Celeval report indeed contains several proposals, including closing the borders or limiting non-essential movements. Why did you specifically choose that one measure, closing the non-essential shops? That's what I'd like to know. That's the end of my questioning.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u44	Minister, I am amazed! There was a shock first. I can tell you that I'm shocked because I've been asking you the same question twice and I haven't answered it twice. None! I don't even have a "I don't know." I'm asking you about wearing the mask for children under the age of 12. It's important. I would like to highlight the opinion of the RAG that the risk of transmission of the virus should be reduced in schools through other risk mitigation measures. I mention that an infectious person has started a study and that she says that children are affected by the virus in school and that we must stop having taboos about it. You should know that a study is announced from 7 December, involving Sciensano, on the transmission of the virus to school from a child to a child and a child to an adult, and you absolutely do not answer the question that is extremely important. If you're in doubt, I'll hear it, but when you're in doubt, you take precautionary measures. I remind you, our children are not guinea pigs. There are a lot of people who have been affected by the virus, who have not gone to non-essential shops, you know, and who have not gone to nursing homes. There are people who have been affected by the virus, who have frequented buses, public transportation and schools, communities. Many clusters found themselves in the homes and touched children. Homes were affected where only the child was infected. I insist. I would really like to get an answer to my question because I can assure you that I will come back to each committee with this question. With regard to businesses and any measures taken or not taken, this must be the subject of clear information, together with scientific data. When we close a trade, whatever it is, we advance scientific evidence that there is a problem in this trade. If we send our children to schools without additional measures to the red code stated, in any case for the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, we explain why and avoid the risk. I repeat that I am a mayor and that my role is to explain things to the citizen and to maintain the citizen's confidence in politicians and scientists. There, however, I regret it, but I remain without a voice. I personally wrote a 13-page letter to the parents of the 3,000 or so students in Courcelles, explaining why I asked the children to wear the mask in primary schools...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u45	I'll answer you because I forgot your question. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u46	Minister, I propose that you respond later, as agreed. We will ignore the fact that Parliament is ultimately speaking, allowing you to answer all the questions. Mr Bacquelaine, your colleague has taken the floor, but would you like to add something very briefly, so that the balance is preserved?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. I would just like to add that if we set criteria such as 75 hospitalizations or less than 800 contaminations a day, it would seem to me normal that at some point these criteria and our position on these criteria should be assessed. In my view, we must avoid deciding in advance that the criteria will not be met and that we will only meet in January. That seems somewhat curious to me. I think that a consultation committee should be set up in December to analyse these criteria more precisely and to see what can be done in the light of developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u48	Mr Minister, I will be brief, but I would like to talk about the vaccine strategy, planning and communication in this area. I understand that you are confident in its continuation, but I would like to point out that a lot of megaphones are being used outside Parliament with a certain level of expertise and support to question a lot of things, ranging from shortage of medical equipment to the composition of the vaccine. I have tabled a question on this, but I have not received an answer. I will put the question in writing because it is a rather technical matter. It is really important that we communicate in a timely and transparent manner. I sincerely hope that you will be aware of this, but I am confident and hope that more good work will be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u49	Minister, in relation to yesterday's communication, you say: "I didn't say electroshock". That's right; you literally said, "I moet echt een schokeffect gebruiken". The newspaper Le Soir translated this into the word "electroshock". Nevertheless, your answer is still insufficient. It reveals your disconnection from the dramatic social situation. A lot of traders have closed and you have failed to consider and empathize with them. Your comments were really shocking. On the bottom, the problem is that we are sailing on sight. Today, there are 2,300 infections a day and you can't tell me where people are infected, where are the outbreaks. Your answer remains very partial, and you refer to the Regions. It is true that each Region sets up its own system, but it is not yet very operational and remains largely insufficient to control the epidemic. This is once again proof that we need to move to a higher speed to control this epidemic. Otherwise, once in a safe place thanks to the 3% positivity rate, will the machinery put in place to control the epidemic really be ready to work? The answers remain largely insufficient, and we risk in this way that the infections will restart more beautiful. As far as your reply on remdesivir is concerned, I am really surprised, Minister. You gave a chronology, but you didn't say everything clearly. On 20 November there was a very clear communication from both The BMJ and the WHO, in which they advised against the use of remdesivir on a scientific basis. If you conclude from that whole episode that everything went well, I'm really surprised. Where did the critical spirit of the sp.a go? It's a shameless story. Gilead has quickly managed to earn €900 million by withholding information that the medicine is not efficient. I am therefore surprised that you think that we should simply move forward. I believe that, first of all, more transparency is needed. Since yesterday, there has been a citizens' initiative in Europe that advocates transparency in these contracts and a fair price for covid vaccines and medicines. I can only appeal to support that initiative. I'm not reassured by what you said. I knew Mrs. De Block and the pharmaceutical industry were both on the same page, but I didn't expect that from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u50	Mrs Merckx, thank you for your statement and I give the floor to Mr Merckx. From Caluwe to Open Vld.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I am very pleased that you will also provide a premium for home nurses, including self-employed home nurses. As I said earlier, they deserve it, as a thank you for their commitment and flexibility. I'm sure your signal will be greatly appreciated by them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u52	Mrs Fonck of the CDH has the floor for her reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u53	Minister, I shall begin with a positive point. I've been titling you for weeks, at least, on the extension of the VOCID-19 premium to home-based nurses. Finally, here is a positive answer. I will, however, continue to put pressure on the premium to be defied. It's important. You didn't answer me about Remdésivir. Yes or no, as of 6 October, was there sufficient stock available in Belgium? If so, this does not explain or justify your new order. I would like you to answer that specific question. Concerning the long VOCID, I hear colleagues joining me. I got a little laughed when I was talking about it a few weeks ago. There is also no answer, Minister, on the importance of vitamin D intake, given the link between widespread deficiency during the winter months and more severe VOCID-19 disease. I also did not have an answer on the number of priority people and still on the waiting list who did not receive a flu vaccine. With regard to tracing and quarantine, I would like to insist that we continue to push on the accelerator. Because we remain below what should be done to effectively control the spread of VOCID-19. As far as vaccination is concerned, let me tell you that, at present, Belgium is lagging behind other countries. All right, you are nine ministers, but now we must stop procrastination, speed up preparation and not just on paper, but also and above all on the ground. We will get the first vaccines very quickly. It would seem to me that Belgium should set itself an objective. When vaccines are available, it seems to me that it is normal and important that within three months we have at least 50% of people vaccinated. I have asked you ten times in recent weeks the question of transparency of contracts and scientific data, and you never answer them. On the subject of communication, you yourself say that you need simple and stable messages. And let me tell you that in the last few days, this has in no way been the case! You are even trying today to justify your unjustifiable communication. For Christmas, we hear the government disagrees. You plead to review the situation in January and others say we're going to relax. Between the two Deputy Prime Ministers, we can see the gap between the government partners. As far as businesses are concerned, I find that your communication is unjustifiable. Let me remind you, Minister, of what the Belgians expect from you and the governments. They expect rigorous management based on scientific evidence. We need to explain it to them and they need to understand the usefulness of it. There is a need for solidarity, to which we adhere, and effective action, both in terms of health and at the economic or social level. But in the last few days, it's going too far. Yet people's support is sorely needed to avoid this third wave, which is a major objective. Above all, the government needs to tighten its ties and be able to move forward much more effectively and coherently with much more rigorous and clear communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u54	Mr President, Minister, as far as vaccination is concerned, I am not at all reassured by your comments. Overall, you tell us that the task force has identified the problems but not the solutions. For this, in particular, you are taking refuge behind our institutional complexity. We know it doesn't help us. But when we see that Germany, which is also a federal state, has made sure to have a clear vaccination strategy, we have questions. No doubt there is in Germany, unlike in our own country, a unit of command at the federal level, that is, the federal, which establishes a roadmap with recommendations for both federated entities and the population. You are quite right to say that the real hope is to have a successful communication with regard to the vaccination campaign. That's right. But we can't do it if we start at the end of the race, once the vaccine is there. As I have already said several times, we have to get to it now, As for the premium that would not be allocated to paramedics, you send the bullet back to hospitals. I think it's particularly fair when you know that firefighters and paramedics were on the front line in this crisis for the care of VOCID patients. It is also inconsistent with the spirit of the law. You say that they are not included in hospital staff, but the law makes it clear that they are trained to assist doctors and nurses in their missions. It seems to me important to take this into account at some point in time. Like my colleagues, I will conclude with the communication. You did not speak of "electroshock". You have, however, spoken of "shock measures". As far as the substance is concerned, if the measures of the Consultation Committee are based, as you say, on scientific studies, why not communicate them to the public at the same time, so that the measures are better accepted and applied? Indeed, it is very nice on the part of the federal authority to launch a campaign according to which we all form a team of 11 million inhabitants if, at the same time, we do not do what is necessary to communicate adequately with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u55	Minister, as agreed, a few moments ago, I give you the floor to answer the few questions for which further answers were requested or which you have not yet answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u56	I apologize for the disorganization of today, which is related to the number of questions and telework. If I can quickly provide you with answers to the written questions, I hope that will restore your confidence in the written procedure. The questions I did not answer were related to vaccination. I told you I didn't want to intervene on this because I don't want to frustrate you. Mrs. Taquin is right, this is not the first time. The first question was whether school is a place of transmission of the virus and an engine of the epidemic. I will reply in Dutch, Mrs Taquin, but I will do so slowly. Like wherever people come together, there can also be infections in schools. But that doesn't mean that schools are the engine of the epidemic. For example, we saw that the numbers of infections were already rising sharply before September, and that the decline was too early to be explained by the closure of schools. There is also consensus in international scientific literature that schools are not the engine of the epidemic. U vroeg: Do you have any scientific data on this? I refer again to the extensive RAG opinion on this subject, which is available to the public. I would like to clarify this for those who ask for the opinion to be published. The RAG opinions are public. There is an opinion on this subject, which can be found. It dates from 12 November: ADVICE_RAG_ transmission_primary_schools_final. You should take a look at that. It is very detailed, Mrs Taquin. That's very detailed, Mrs. Taquin. The opinion of the RAG is available. You also asked me if I was considering studies on this issue and when. The CLBs are already keeping records on the number of infections in schools. In Antwerp there is also a study looking at transfers in secondary schools. In French-speaking Belgium, you are studying at the University of Liège. A study according to the WHO protocol to view transmission in schools is in the scaffolding. Finally, there is a zero revalence study that examines how many children in primary and secondary schools have antibodies against SARS-CoV-2. There are therefore already several studies in progress. With regard to the note issued by the RAG, you are asking me if we have been able to study the phenomenon. The RAG opinion provides a scientifically substantiated response and also indicates the limitations of the different data sources. "To what extent are children infected?" It's not a black and white issue, children can also be infected. However, this is not as easy as it is for adults. As mentioned in the opinion of the RAG, contact tracing studies show that children are only half as susceptible to the virus as adults. In other words, after a proven exposure to the virus, for example an infected roommate, children have only half the chance to get infected as adults. It is not yet fully clear why, but differences in receptors and the immune system of children could provide a plausible explanation. "Do you have any specific knowledge of the degree of contagiosity?" The data on infectious diseases are less clear. For contagiosity, it's less clear. It seems that children mainly transmit the virus within the household. Data from the United States and Sweden, where primary schools remained open, showed for example no increased incidence of SARS-CoV-2 among teachers and staff in crèches during the first wave. "What is the risk of a child returning from school contaminating family members?" That risk cannot be quantified exactly. Case reports show that this is indeed possible, but both international figures and the figures of the CLBs and the PSEs, which are mentioned in the RAG opinion, show that much more often the opposite happens. Children are infected in the household and take this contamination to school. "If the numbers go up, what initiatives do you intend to take specifically to protect children?" This is a question that Sciensano cannot answer empirically, I would say, but there are recommendations in the opinion of the RAG that can nevertheless be highlighted. I'll read them in Dutch, excuse me. The risk of virus transmission should be reduced by other risk mitigation measures such as fixed groups, hand hygiene and good ventilation. Those risk mitigation measures have already been defined in the protocols. The colour code used in those protocols should correctly reflect the transmission level in the wider society. In the case of intense virus circulation in society, schools must therefore switch to code red regardless of the situation within the school walls. I have another recommendation from the RAG opinion. Priority is given to compulsory education. Out-of-school activities should follow rules that are at least as strict as the rules at school. This is important in order to limit the possible transmission of the virus, but also to avoid confusion and poor compliance with the rules. In code red, teachers in primary school must wear mouth and nose masks, even if they keep a foot and a half away. That's what the RAG says. I would like to add the last element of the RAG opinion. As already defined in the current protocols, teachers in primary school must wear masks when they are unable to distance themselves from other adults and when they are in closed common areas. Mask breaks can be inserted when one is outside at least one-and-a-half metres, inside when one is alone in a room or inside when one is quietly working in a well-ventilated room and keeps a distance of at least one-and-a-half metres. Moreover, the RAG opinion also states that it is important to control the circulation of the virus in the wider society. "Have you read about the study carried out in Liège by Mrs Meuris? What conclusions do you draw?" Oui. We know that this study is being carried out. We are aware of the preliminary results, which confirm what we already know. Children are not immune to the virus, but less susceptible, and schools are not the engine of the epidemic. The figures show that the number of cases in children is increasing with delay. First the adults are infected and they pass the virus on to children. So most of the infections do not come from schools to society, but from society to schools. This is also seen in the evolution of the figures in primary schools, where there is a marked increase as the number of cases in society increased, but there was a delay and the incidence remained lower than among the general population. I come to Mr Hervé Rigot's questions and I repeat my apologies. "What do we know about the long VOCID?" Lasting effects of VOCID-19 are observed, such as persistent symptoms or asthenia. This is why corona consultations have been set up by some hospitals. Very quickly after the outbreak of the pandemic, Sciensano implemented various surveillance systems to monitor the number of diagnoses based on laboratory and physician reports, as well as hospital admissions. Currently, we do not have an estimate of the long-term consequences of VOCID-19 in Belgium. Sciensano plans to study them - this is the good news. To this end, several possible strategies are being evaluated, taking into account many prerequisites, including the protection of patients' privacy. In addition, strategies need to be assessed so that, for example, the hospital sector does not experience an additional workload related to the recording of this information. Mr Rigot asked whether I was considering specific measures. The post-COVID medical problem is very recent and evolving, which does not currently allow us to gather all the data that allow us to develop a standardized follow-up plan. However, these people can of course already make use of the reimbursement system that currently exists and get reimbursement of care via the nomenclature, receive chronic sick status and use the MAF system if the conditions are met. As you know, Mr Rigot, I have always argued for protection systems that are not defined on the basis of very specific pathologies, but on the basis of the financial needs and financial situation of the patient. I believe that this approach now shows its usefulness. Patients with "long VOCID", if they encounter financial difficulties, and this is quite possible, can of course benefit from these generic measures. Mr. Rigot asked about psychological support. When a hospital, on its own initiative, provides space for its staff - and in the example that Mr Rigot cites, even more broadly, to the staff of other health facilities - to support and encourage them in their work to combat the pandemic, I welcome this. In a similar vein, on 28 October, I presented a note to the Interministerial Conference of Public Health containing, among other things, an action plan to alleviate the burden of the pandemic for all people working in the health and welfare sector "social action", on the one hand, and to strengthen the capacity of individuals and organizations, on the other. In order to reduce the burden of the pandemic, the main focus will be on measures to improve the working environment. They will be developed and detailed within the framework of the Help Work for Support Plan, which is coordinated by the Government Commissioner for Coronavirus. In addition, we will also strengthen the staff's load capacity. From the first wave of VOCID-19, from March to June 2020, it became clear that workers in the health care supply were under enormous pressure. As a result, the number of complaints and psychological problems has increased. To remedy this, a step-by-step intervention model will be deployed, consisting of four lines of action. First, it will be a campaign to raise awareness and promote health through a channel of campaigns and websites. Second, within the team, basic adaptive capabilities will need to be increased and activated using the tools. Third, it will be necessary to ensure appropriate care (matched care) at the individual level in terms of detection, sorting and referral to low-intensity care. Fourth, if necessary, it will encourage the development of outpatient and specialized mental health care. I am in constant contact with my counterparts at the Interdepartmental Public Health Conference, in particular to promote the mental well-being of children and adolescents. Due to the crisis of VOCID-19, the front-line psychological function was made accessible to children, adolescents and their families. The aim is to organise an additional range of assistance for relatively minor emotional, social or behavioural problems. For more complex problems, specialized forms of mental health care can be used. This is an extension of the existing supply, carried out by adult mental health networks. Children's and adolescents' mental health networks provide a specialized crisis service, composed in each province of mobile teams, which can come to home or elsewhere, and intensive care beds through psychiatric and general hospitals. The aim is that the extension of the PLP will also partially guarantee that fewer young people will find themselves in the specialized provision of mental health care. Finally, I will focus more on the prevention of psychological problems by working with my ICD counterparts to pay more attention to health awareness and promotion through informative and motivating campaigns and websites. Mr. Rigot then asked me about the undocumented. Illegal residents are entitled to urgent medical assistance. I have a question again from Mr. Rigot about the undocumented. Illegal residents are entitled to urgent medical assistance. Coronavirus screening is part of urgent medical assistance. Emergency medical assistance is provided by the State in accordance with the Act of 2 April 1965 on the care of assistance provided by CPAS. In concrete terms, for those whose tests have been analysed in laboratories which depend on hospitals, billing is carried out directly to CAAMI via the MEDIPRIMA system. This is the medical care system for people who are not insurable with a mutual fund. For those whose tests have been tested in recognized independent laboratories, they will receive the invoice and will be able to submit it to the CPAS, or it will be sent directly to the CPAS. This is the usual procedure for medical and pharmaceutical expenses outside MEDIPRIMA. There is no moderator ticket for these tests. The entire amount is refunded. Similarly, no supplement may be charged by the laboratory. Mrs Gijbels, as far as Coronalert is concerned, I think I have already replied, but because you are not happy with the absence of a formal reply, the Coronalert has been downloaded more than 2 million times. We had said that we should reach at least 15% of the total population. We made it, but the more people, the better. We're communicating there. This is primarily done by the regions and the communities. We need to convince people that this is anonymous. I have already said that the biggest challenge is linking the one-time identification of the app to the code of 17 digits of the covidtest. I think I've also told you how we work now. So I don't have to repeat that. The number you were looking for is 2 million. Mr President, please accept my apologies for the disorganization here at home, but perhaps we should reconsider what is going on with the written questions - which would require me to respond quickly - and what I can handle as oral questions. Of course, if oral questions are asked to me, I have to answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u57	Thank you Minister, of course we accept your apologies, it is the affronts and consequences of telework that must be done to us now, in the respect of everyone. Our mission is to subscribe to it, but it is not easy every day, as you have mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen, we agreed that we would not reopen the debate, but the last word is for Parliament. If your reply is useful in view of the latest replies you have received, I invite you to intervene, in order to respect the rule of the game, but I invite you to do so in a limited way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u58	Minister, I probably missed the answer on the corona app, for which I apologise. I just wanted to talk about the indicators agreed on in the conciliation committee. You didn't say what they were based on. Is there scientific evidence that supports that? Where can we find those references? Does that happen in other countries in the same way? Is it intended to be rolled out at provincial or national level?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u59	I would like to refer to Germany and other countries. That 100 incidence has turned us into 800 infections. This is found in many countries. Some countries have even stricter borders. You should look at the countries around us, especially Germany. It's very similar. It's not a coincidence. This was achieved after a great deal of consultation, including informal consultations, with experts of all kinds. Look at the policy in Germany, which is interesting to compare. Look at the numbers they're using. Mrs Gijbels, I am going to give a very honest answer to your question about the provinces, as I always have to do. We're not ready for that yet. I think that is an important question. If we are in a safe zone, can we also act selectively locally, provincially, regionally? I think it is plausible that when one is in a safe zone and there is an outbreak in one place, one intervenes only there. We're not there today. I have asked you a number of times myself, and I would like to see more clarity on that point.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u60	Minister, I will re-table a number of questions in writing. I would like to ask you for question No. 55011211C on the European Ministerial Conference. That's already December 2nd. I would like an answer to that very quickly, if that is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u61	Minister, as far as the long-term VOCID is concerned, I fully agree with you. We have a remarkable social security system that allows us to leave no one on the edge of the road or, in any case, that tends to make sure that we do not leave those who are in trouble on the side. I therefore share your view on the issue of accessibility to health care, in terms of the means of each and every person, with the aim of ensuring that everyone has access to health care and that the pathologies are not separated. It is important today to remind all those who feel they are forgotten how to access this care. In other words, care must be taken to have good information and communication. It is also necessary to let them know that we are well aware that they are suffering the difficult, unexpected consequences of the pandemic, that we are there for them, in one way or another, and that we will ensure that we are there tomorrow, if we have to make an adventure. This is the message that must be sent to these people who must know that they are not forgotten.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u62	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. That said, the latter leaves me dubious to the extent that it is known that children can be infected, especially at school. We also know that the virus is entering school, but we don't know if it is an engine. You talked about the PMS, about a study in Antwerp on secondary education, about a French-speaking university. Let me add UNICEF, WHO, the RAG, which I have read all the documents. They are, moreover, the first of which I have come to know. There is also the CHU of Liège, the KU Leuven, JAMA Pediatrics, Anses and a professor Emeritus Pediatrics of the ULB. I also inform you that when, in Courcelles, we took the step to impose the wearing of the mask for children from the age of 6, the AFMPS sent me an e-mail in which it suggested that I set up a study. But it is obviously not up to a mayor to diligently carry out such a study. On 24 November, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation announced that three French-speaking universities had joined forces, namely UCL, ULB and ULiège, to launch a study to measure the role of schools in the transmission of VOCID-19 between children and between children and adults. Work will begin on 7 December in eight primary schools. All students (2,400) and all staff (200) will undergo a weekly salivary test for a period of six weeks. Questionnaires will also be sent to parents and other partners are involved, such as School Health Promotion, ONE and Sciensano. You therefore understand that it is time to have a conclusion on contamination in schools, because decisions of higher powers must be based on scientific data and studies. As long as we're on the assumption, I'm sorry, but our duty is to be careful. That's the signal I'm sending. This is not an easy step to take. I'm living proof of that. It was not simple, but the majority of parents understand that it is a precautionary measure. What has been highlighted by the WHO and the RAG concerns the wearing of the mask, mainly between six and eight years. Indeed, the mask must be worn correctly. It is believed that a child must be supervised by an adult to ensure that the mask is worn properly. I insist that I was a teacher. Teachers do much more, in normal times, and always, in the education of children. I therefore advocate the opening of schools because we know that it is essential to combat inequalities, to the mental health and development of our children. But these schools must be safe. I would remind you that we have practiced the red code recommended by the RAG, which is applied in our French-speaking schools. We applied it in September by supervising it very strictly, and it was not enough. The solution is in my opinion, in the wearing of the mask and in the quick salivary test, but this must be checked because I do not have the answer either. But we'll have the merit of trying. We can thus, as we have done in the rest homes in our territory, give us an accurate picture of the situation in order to better manage it. Clusters in nursing homes were revealed when testing was widespread. Thank you for the answers, but I really insist that you take this problem with your arms. It is not normal to forget an issue that concerns children and families.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u63	You had not yet answered a few small questions. Can you answer it soon? Is remdesivir still used in therapy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u64	An important intensivist said yesterday or the day before yesterday that it is still being used, according to the guidelines. I don't have any online data on that today. It is said that it is still used with caution and in accordance with the directives. Everyone is looking at what the European Medicines Agency will say.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u65	How will you check more closely for the quarantine?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u66	We will make that clear in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u67	You took a measure from Celeval's opinion, namely closing non-essential shops. Why was this measure taken, but were the borders not closed or non-essential movements not prohibited?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u68	I won't go back to that. That is the political choice we have made.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u69	Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u70	I think we can conclude our work. No, Mrs. Fonck, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u71	Minister, I am not going to revive you, but I am going to try to put the questions in writing and see if I have a return or not in relation to your commitments. Then we'll see. You know that in the last few weeks I have been asking you as I have asked Parliament's colleagues about the long VOCID patients, the long-term VOCID. You sent me an answer telling me that in the background, everything existed and that nothing more had to be done. We're opening the door. The KCE, Federaal Kenniscentrum will do a study. I now hear from colleagues in Parliament, even though they have first sent me, a little swept away from the back of my hand, that they are interested in it, but will not believe that the existing devices are sufficient for long VOCID patients. Progress was rightly made in the acute management of VOCID patients. Today we find ourselves with difficulties on the ground. There is the part of medical care. There's the financial side. There is the treatment or follow-up component that is not financially supported and there is the physician-counsel, occupational physician component. Indeed, the "long VOCID" entity remains a nebula while studies are multiplying to effectively establish and validate the existence of these patients "long VOCID", not only on the basis of symptoms but on radiological bases with scanners, resonances, with ventilatory tests that demonstrate chronic VOCID damage. For these patients, there are really important and urgent measures to be taken, without however falling into an approach specific to a disease that would go against another disease, but here there is a specificity that cannot be left on the side. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that I have tabled a motion for a resolution. Why don't we try?", I want to say - to work together on the subject, regardless of the majority-opposition aspect, because many patients are waiting for answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-01-55-commissie-ic307x.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. We met our commitments and released the minister at 5:30 p.m. We have also had a positive, constructive and respectful debate. Thank you all, thanks to our translators, the secretariat and the staff of Parliament. I wish you a good evening. Take care of yourself!
