ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u2	Mr De Roover has asked me to organise a topical debate on this subject. I have not been able to consult the Conference of Presidents on this matter, which the Rules of Procedure would require. I propose that the N-VA Group, after the government's response, should be able to intervene for two minutes. Is everyone okay with that? [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u3	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, I honestly do not understand this chaos. Many people are doing their utmost in this crisis. I think in the first place of the many heroes who give the best of themselves every day and of all those who make the effort to follow the rules. I would also like to thank them for that. However, what they need to be able to keep up is strong leadership with good, clear communication and guidelines. Only in this way can we ensure that as few people as possible die. The worst thing today is that one cannot say goodbye to one's loved ones. The residential care centres are currently the most vulnerable places. One resident on five test positive, the mortality rates are higher than in the hospitals and the care staff lacks hands and equipment. At such a time, you decide to allow visitors again in the rest homes. However, your words were not yet cold, or there was already a lot of criticism from the political parties that were at your table, from the virologists and the experts, and above all from the sector itself, which absolutely does not like this. Madam Prime Minister, if you are to make a decision, then that decision must be clear, well-conversed and have a unified communication. Now there's none of this. It's completely unclear. What I find most sad is all those umbrellas that are opening right now. One minister states that he thought there was consultation with the sector, the other says he was unaware. Another tweet is how happy he is with this decision, while his own chairman on Twitter reports that the rest homes are not ready. And you say it's not an obligation. All these political games have no message for people today. I'm sure I don't have to remind you that this is about human lives. Madam Prime Minister, I have only one question. It is quite clear that this communication has not been consulted with the sector. Are you withdrawing the decision you communicated yesterday, or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u4	Mr. Speaker, Madam Prime Minister, I know that I have been with you for a little while for several weeks now that each of your decisions is heavily weighed and I fully understand the dilemmas inherent in these difficult times. Continued containment until 3 May, everyone will agree, is absolutely necessary. On the other hand, there are two elements in yesterday's decision of the National Security Council which, in our view, are problematic. The first concerns home visits. I understand, of course, the social and humanitarian aspect of this decision. I know that many elderly people suffer terribly from loneliness, but since yesterday, many doctors have been sounding alarms. There is no guarantee that a visitor who has not had symptoms for fourteen days may not have contracted the virus for one, two, three days or even a week. Even taking into account the necessary balance between physical and psychological health, the risk here still seems enormous. Shouldn't the Prime Minister allow these visits only under certain conditions, for example, when residents and staff have been tested negative? Can we also provide for a testing period, for example, for the direct parents of these residents? The second category of people we are really worried about is artists, especially stage artists. Yesterday's announcements ruined the few hopes that could remain for summer festivals. As you know, the cultural sector, just after that of Horeca, is the sector most severely affected by this crisis. And now, I have to admit, the federal government isn't quite on the date yet. Yes, artists will be able to benefit from unemployment as a result of force majeure, but there are still concerns about implementation. Can you guarantee that the confinement period that began on March 13, 2020 will in itself constitute a case of force majeure with regard to the unemployment regulation and that clear instructions will be given to ONEM to this effect? Finally, even if the period of validation of the contracts necessary to preserve the status of artist is extended by a period equivalent to that of the crisis, as Mrs Muylle said last week, this simple postponement cannot suffice to relieve a sector where stage dates take months to be determined. May I ask you that for this particular sector, all means be used to ensure that artists enjoying the status retain all their rights and that those who do not enjoy them are not forgotten?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u5	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, I heard you on the radio this morning, just after I got out of bed. You rightly pointed out that, in a crisis such as the current crisis, we must work step by step. First we have to discuss it. It's better to decide than to communicate. Let us not create false hope, but a perspective. I admit that you usually stand for that approach in difficult circumstances. Unfortunately, this is not the case for the difficult dossier of the residential care centres. The other questioners rightly point out that people in residential care centres are experiencing a crisis. Today they are faced with a shortage of medical equipment. They are still surrounded by the virus and yet suddenly and without consultation they are confronted with the decision that visit would be possible again. That would have been a decision of the National Security Council, but almost immediately after that decision becomes unclear. Ministers of the same party contradict each other. I understand that in the present circumstances it is not obvious to hold a meeting. However, it is still possible to call each other. So I don't understand that contradiction. Ministers claim that they were not aware of the decision. Prime Minister Jan Jambon seems to be having a very difficult time steering his team. Apparently, there really is a problem with internal communication. However, all the people in the residential care centres do not have a message about this. It is right to ask for a perspective for those involved in the prevailing difficult circumstances. It's terrible not to be able to say goodbye. It's terrible not being able to hug or visit each other. Madam Prime Minister, ambiguity is not a perspective. Yesterday the promise was made that visits would be possible again. Today that turns out to be a false promise. Visits that can lead to the spread of the virus are not a good perspective at all, not for the people themselves, not for the workers and not for our society. I would therefore ask you to clarify this matter. You are not responsible for everything, but you have to be clear: either you call the National Security Council together again or you have a clear line here in Parliament. That is what we need in the current crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, one day 417 coronados fell in this country. That's another sad record. The total number of corona deaths is 4.857. In relation to the number of inhabitants, only Spain is doing even worse today. The worst place around the world beckons. Unfortunately, that does not provide for the necessary vigorous leadership. No, in Belgium this leads to a discussion of the method of counting used, as if the figures were more important than lowering them. Every week I ask you for clear communication here, but it's getting more and more chaotic. What a mess. Almost all the decisions of the National Security Council had been leaked in advance. There is still no exit strategy. All we know is that wearing mouth masks, which you considered to be totally useless until recently, will play an important role in this. I hope you can at least explain what you mean by that. As always, press conferences of yours raise more questions than answers, especially that one message that visitors are now allowed to visit in rest homes. Within seven minutes, the ministers began to publicly contradict each other, because there was no consultation whatsoever with the sector itself. The result is that all domes call for your decision to be ignored. How can you make such a decision and communicate without any consultation with that sector? What a lack of respect for the sector and the staff who are already struggling today. I ask you to be clear, to announce plans when consultations are held, when they are prepared, when they are effective, and to let you know where your exit plan is.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u7	Madam Prime Minister, my question is not about residential care centres, which is a very sensitive debate. Although it is a regional debate, you will undoubtedly also give answers on yesterday's communication and the implementation of it by the regions. Everyone is, of course, concerned about the figures we see every day. As long as they do not fall, it remains very difficult to talk about the way out of this crisis. However, if we ask our people to persevere, you asked yesterday for perseverance, what we will need, as a population, to cope with this crisis, then it is very important that people also have hope and perspective, that they know what they are ultimately doing: what we are doing now, we are doing to take care of those who are ill and to ensure that there is sufficient hospital capacity, and it seems to be possible to do so. There is also the prospect that we will then have a functioning economy to maintain our health care system, which is very competitive, and to maintain our prosperity. As far as the latter is concerned, I would like to ask for further information about yesterday's press conference. I understand that you want to be careful, but you announced a National Security Council in the course of next week, on which more clarity is to be expected. What my group and I expect from it is an extended exit scenario, taking into account the possible evolutions of the pandemic. This means that at that moment we will be able to give a clear perspective to everyone. I know that you, together with the sectors, intend to roll out a plan by next week, but it is very important that you give all companies and small self-employed people sufficient time to prepare for the next phase. It is therefore important that next week there should be clarity, hope and perspective for all those who want to restart economic activity so that they can prepare themselves for it. Will you be able to clarify this, as you announced, next week, in consultation with all sectors, Madam Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u8	Madam Prime Minister, since 13 March no visitors have been allowed in the residential care centres. This means that people have not been able to see their parents and grandparents for more than a month. That's long and weighs a lot of people. We are, of course, social beings, especially elderly people who need contact. The tragedy is that despite the one-month sacrifice, COVID-19 was still caught in those care centres, because people were allowed to work there who were sick, because people had to work there who had sick partners and because the staff were on their gums. They often do double shifts and do their utmost. The staff say that applause is not enough, that tests are needed, that sufficient protective equipment is needed and that guidance is needed. Week after week, questions are being asked here in Parliament and promises are being made, but in the field, as many people say to us, it is chaos. This morning I heard Minister De Block on the radio in the Morning. She said there: "When such a proposal comes from the National Security Council, it is assumed that it has been submitted. Such a decision should be preceded by a chain of consultations. It's the government that should be organizing something like that. Apparently, that didn't happen." If a participant in the National Security Council states that she does not know and that she assumes that a decision has been taken in consultation, I wonder what we are doing. Normally, the National Security Council itself should know what was being discussed. That is why I have a very simple question, which I think is very important. Did anyone at that meeting of the National Security Council ask if the measure had been consulted with the sector? Has anyone, of all the people present at the National Security Council, asked for that? Did you ask? Did Mr Jambon ask that? Did Mr Di Rupo ask that? Has anyone asked about the position of the unions in this, of the people on the ground? It is a very simple question, but I do think it is important, because such important decisions must be preceded by genuine consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u9	Madam Secretary, I think you've been taught by Donald Trump. If you don't like the truth, it's fake news. If the statistics become too negative, you want to modify them. I'm declaring myself, ma'am. You knew that there were no mouth masks in stock, because you were Minister of the Budget when 63 million mouth masks were destroyed in 2015 and 2018 to make way for an asylum centre. When you had to order mouth masks, ma'am, you made a masquerade out of them, including false orders. You were not even able to attach a proper manual to a test kit, because you do not know the difference between an ear stick and a nose or throat wiper. A month ago, Madam Secretary, your government was of the opinion that mouth masks were neither useful nor necessary. Yesterday there was the meeting of the National Security Council and all the mothers in this country apparently have to sew the sewing machine to make mouth masks. You can find it ridicul, ma'am, but the worst thing that happened yesterday is that two virologists, our confidants, Johan Neyts and Marc Van Ranst, have said quite clearly that they had to lie on behalf of the government about the usefulness of mouth masks, which were not needed in the past. Now they're necessary. I'm sorry about that. As far as statistics are concerned, Mr Pas has already pointed out that we are number two in the world: we count 50 times more deaths than the Greeks, and if we know which health care is there, we should be a little ashamed. Now we say that we will change those statistics. The same virologists whose names I will no longer mention say that 100 percent of the people who die in the residential care centers are added to the normal deaths. Ma'am, that's not correct. I'm active in a municipality with four retirement homes, four residential care centers. Let me hold wood: there is no corona contamination at our house. Twelve deaths are normally added to this. If you start lying about the statistics, I'm sorry. If you decide today that (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u10	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, as far as I am concerned, I can only welcome the decisions announced yesterday following the meeting of the National Security Council, in particular the measure relating to the extension of confinement until 3 May. This decision was expected; it is necessary. I welcome these measures all the more because they are accompanied by a few positive provisions allowing the citizens to have a perspective, to say that we are going to do this, that we are on the right path, but that we must maintain the effort and the rigour. The message was important! In any case, they will bring some air to our fellow citizens and allow them to cope with this extremely difficult situation. I would like to go back to the measure relating primarily to our elders, to all those people who have been isolated for several weeks now. This measure is intended to allow a relative to visit a family member who resides in a nursing home. I stress that this is one close friend, always the same and in compliance with very strict conditions. Madam Prime Minister, as mayor, I am going a lot to the field and I welcome this measure, which I would like to stress is not an obligation, but an opportunity that is being offered. Indeed, on numerous occasions, I have been arrested by families and heads of nursing homes who reported not only the physical but also the mental degradation of their residents. When you reach a certain age, you can no longer be confined 24 hours a day in your room; loneliness becomes unbearable. It was therefore fundamental to consider the purely human element, since in the end this aspect is part of the physical health of our elders. Madam Prime Minister, can you confirm that this decision has indeed been taken in consultation with the federated entities which are competent in these matters, that strict conditions will indeed be put in place to allow one and only one relative to visit his or her isolated parent, and that it is up to the nursing homes to assess whether or not they are capable of organising these visits?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u11	Madam Prime Minister, you made very good decisions last week in the enlarged core, in the National Security Council. I am thinking of curbing the bankruptcy of entrepreneurs in difficulty. I am thinking of giving students and temporary unemployed people the chance to earn a living and thus support our economy. I am thinking of the garden centers and the DIY business that can finally be opened. Good decisions! We're behind that. We also support the fact that the inhabitants of a place of rest can receive a visit so that they feel better. Provided, of course, that this does not jeopardise the safety and health of staff and residents. That is a good decision, Madam Prime Minister, but not at the right time and not in the right way. Because if we want a decision to be respected, if we want a decision to be implemented, then it will require support and consultation. That's not just the responsibility of the federal government. That is also the responsibility of the regional government, which was at the table. That is also the responsibility of the prime ministers who will have to consult with their trade ministers on this matter. What is desirable must also be possible. What is desirable today may not be possible, but let us work on it, together with all those responsible and therefore first and foremost those in the field, so that it can be done tomorrow or perhaps the day after tomorrow. That seems important to me. Can we learn from this, Madam Prime Minister? How do we make decisions enforceable and possible? How do we involve the field of work in the implementation of the decision taken yesterday? In particular, what lessons do we learn from this in preparation for the next National Security Council, so that the important decisions to be taken there can be supported, with consultation, with the agreement of the workers, employers and all the actors involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u12	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, I have a message to convey to you, which I hear everywhere in the working class and in the people. People say to me, "Tell the Prime Minister, we're not going to pay for the consequences of this coronavirus crisis." I get that message from all the people. Madam Prime Minister, may I have your attention, please? I'm talking to you. I think this is important. Mr President, I would like to ask the Prime Minister for some cordiality. Madam Prime Minister, I will continue my speech. The people say they don't want to pay the consequences of the corona crisis. People already feel, as after the banking crisis in 2008, that they will have to pay. I say no, the people won't have to pay again. The debate has already begun, ladies and gentlemen. The debate has already begun. Jan Jambon says in the press: "100 percent sure, the taxpayer is going to take the fall, anyway." Not 99 percent, but 100 percent sure. It is again the taxpayer who will have to pay for it. The N-VA's back on track. On the francophone side, Elio Di Rupo said, "You have to be honest, everyone will lose part of their income." Is everyone going to lose part of their income? No! I don't agree! Not the workers yet! They're heroes on the ground today! It's the heroes, the nurses, les eboueurs and the people who work in the shops who will have to pay for this again. I do not agree that it is again the people who pay! It's not fair! There are other options. I finally hear certain colleagues say that it is now or never for a capital tax. All right, let's do it. Go for a power load in the supercore! Of course we need a tax on wealth: the richest have to pay! Prime Minister, we will have 15 to 20 billion less in our budget. You bought 34 F-35 warplanes for 15 billion. I ask you to cancel this order so that you can guarantee a social budget of the State.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u13	Thank you, first and foremost, for the fact that the National Security Council wanted to give the organisers of the great Belgian festivals on which, as you yourself say, we are very proud, clarity about the near future. Until the end of August, they're all canceled. This is the result of good consultation with the sector. We are talking about a hugely important social, cultural and economic phenomenon. The entire event sector, from event and festival organizers, artists, security companies, caterers, stage builders, sound and light providers to media companies, more than 300,000 small and large companies all rely on clarity about their future. As with any clear statement, questions are raised here. The most important of these is when one can speak of a mass event. You talked yesterday about mass events like festivals. Does that mean that we are talking here about all 650 festivals in our country or will you limit that number? What about the big concerts in the open air and in the halls? Are soccer matches, cycling races and fairs included in mass events? For domestic tourism, for our catering industry, for all businesses, but especially for our artists and, of course, for our people, it is important that we also clarify this. Finally, our people also expect clarity about small-scale activities such as school parties, youth camps, sports camps and playgrounds. All these activities are so important for social cohesion, for the future of our young people and our families. How else can working parents bridge that long festivalless period? Will we get that answer next week, Madam Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u14	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, I would like to make a strong request here. I would like your Government to take into account the actors on the ground and to support all those on the front. If I appeal to you, it is because several positions raise questions. Rest homes are in critical situations. The mobilization is total to save lives. The National Security Council decided yesterday that family visits could resume as early as Monday. Breaking the isolation of our elders is deeply human. All our elders, all families dream of it. But what is striking in your decision is the lack of consultation between the rest homes, of taking into account their realities, of the still existing shortage of protective equipment. They do everything to prevent the virus from spreading, why didn't you cooperate with the nursing homes before that decision? Why didn't you make sure it was possible? Why didn't you identify the needs to be safe? I come to another element. On 14 April 2020, many scientists, as well as health authorities, made a clear decision on the recommendation for the collective wearing of the fabric mask during joint activities, as well as in shops and public transport. Yesterday, the National Security Council decided to advise only the wearing of the mask. You know, however, that this is only effective if everyone wears it. At the same time, you allow the reopening of gardening and DIY shops. Why don't you force the mask to be worn clearly, as scientists recommend? Testing and testing patients is a major issue. Your government, the Prime Minister, has decided to favour a consortium. Why not have involved all the hospital and non-hospital laboratories that have been investing for weeks rather than putting them aside and trying to maximize testing capabilities? ICU physicians are witnessing their difficulties in dealing with the critical situation of life-saving drugs for ICU patients and are calling for a change in the procedure. Why do two ministers in your government criticize these doctors publicly and strongly? [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u15	Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, the fight against the pandemic requires superhuman efforts by the health care and support staff of sick or dependent people. Every week, our thoughts are directed to him. Yesterday, the National Security Council took several decisions. In the batch, we can understand and support certain measures. However, as you know, one of them raises some emotion and questions. We are sincerely encouraged for the morale of those concerned by the prospect of renewed visits to rest homes. It is, of course, necessary in terms of mental and moral health for those concerned, who very often suffer from isolation and lack of visits and who risk giving up the fight. However, we share the misunderstanding of those who are exhausted by weeks of effort in these nursing homes and who do not always have the required protective equipment or a clear vision of who is sick and who is not sick among residents and caregivers, since testing is only in place – despite our repeated calls. Equipment and testing are the two top priorities for nursing homes. That is the point of view we share with caregivers. It seems to me that the National Security Council has forgotten that. This debate, Madam Prime Minister, is useful for the future. On the one hand, it shows the need for greater consultation of the actors involved in the decisions to be taken in terms of deconfinity. On the other hand, it proves that time is needed for them to integrate and adapt to the decisions that are made, typically in the case of nursing homes, by providing for special arrangements for visiting residents. That is the message that we wish to convey to you today, Madam Prime Minister: the more the strategy of deconfining will be carried out collectively by respecting a common sense of timing, the more just and effective it will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u16	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, I am going to tell you about a measure that has stirred up the public's feelings. This is the one that allows family members to visit rest homes, homes for disabled people and accommodation centres. This decision is quite incomprehensible, especially since it has clearly not been the subject of consultation with the sector. That will be my first question, Madam Prime Minister. Was there, yes or no, consultation with the federations of nursing homes? Since last night, Madam Prime Minister, I've had dozens of people online, caregivers, home managers, sometimes families who worry about this measure. Everyone tells me the same thing: this measure is incomprehensible. This is what the Association francophone des médecins coordinators et conseileurs en hôtes de rest et de soins (Aframeco) wrote to you. It is all the more incomprehensible that yesterday in committee with Minister De Backer, we learned that 69% of the deaths in the last 24 hours were from nursing homes. Prime Minister, I understand your willingness to bring humanity. I know it's complicated for families not to see their loved ones in these institutions anymore. I know that it is difficult for these residents not to have more contact with their families, but all the information I have taken goes in the same direction: for the moment, the institutions are not ready to generalize this measure, or in any case to host visits. On the other hand, one thing is essential to allow these visits. It's about testing. We saw him yesterday with Mr. Backer. It's starting to happen, but it's still disparate. We'll need a general screening if we're going to go into this kind of decision. Therefore, Madam Prime Minister, my question will be simple. I hope you have listened to and heard from those staff on their knees and those leaderships who do not want to be responsible for any decision. Do you intend to postpone this decision for the benefit of the patients, that of the staff of the institutions, but also that of the families who are in the unknown?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions, which I will answer in a moment. However, I would like to start by taking the opportunity to thank all Belgians for the great efforts they have been making for a month now. I understand the problems, the feeling of loneliness and also the frustration that this situation brings. However, respect for the measures is essential to save lives. Efforts are not in vain, on the contrary, they ensure that the health situation improves. According to information from Sciensano, the number of new hospitalisations for COVID-19 has decreased slightly since the week of 6 April. The number of recordings on intensive concerns also seems to have reached a plateau since 3 April. These are encouraging signals, but they do not mean that we should let the reins be celebrated. I know some people get a little bored, sometimes they try a little less. We find that non-compliant behavior increases. We all long for our freedom, for being together with our loved ones and friends, for a somewhat normal rhythm of life. Yet we must repeat this again: it is now that our efforts can continue to save lives, to protect the most fragile of us. I am thinking in particular of our elders, whose vulnerability is exacerbated. The situation in nursing and nursing homes – as you know, we talk about enough – is very difficult. At the outset, I would like to reiterate our willingness to continue working hand in hand with the Communities and the Regions to respond to this emergency, as we have done with the provision of defence personnel. Similarly, the increase in testing capacity will be used to test all residents and staff of nursing homes in the next three weeks. The results of these tests should allow nursing homes to strengthen their measures to prevent the spread of the virus – which they have already done, but this can be strengthened, thus preserving more lives. They will also make it possible to refine the daily reporting on the number of deaths in Belgium. If it is important to be as transparent as possible, you have to be fair in the numbers. Thus, the analysis of the first tests that have been performed shows that of all symptomatic persons tested in nursing homes, 48% are ultimately confirmed as VOCID-19, while deaths in nursing and nursing homes are 100% recorded in our analysis, whether confirmed or suspected. You understand, of course, that it carries the numbers up. That said, it is always difficult to talk about numbers in such circumstances, because a life is a life, a death is a tragedy, whether you die of VOCID-19 or something else. As far as the National Security Council is concerned, it has been decided, in consultation with the Prime Ministers, that the measures we took on 12 March will be extended until 3 May. I would remind you that these measures are intended to slow down the spread of the virus, not to stop it. Unfortunately, that's impossible. There is currently no vaccine against COVID-19 and there is no miracle cure. We must accept that a zero risk no longer exists. It never actually exists, but now less than before. The risk is there and will remain so for a few weeks. We must deal with it as best we can by finding the right balance between what is allowed and what is temporarily forbidden, and by now always watching over those who are most vulnerable. In order to make this period more bearable with containment measures, we have indeed decided to allow some relaxation, a little oxygen in a situation that is very difficult for everyone. For example, garden centres and DIY shops can re-open their doors under the same conditions as food stores, i.e. with respect for a safety distance. Residents of residential care centres and institutions for people with disabilities will indeed be able to get a visit from a designated person. There is no denying that long-term isolation has an impact on the psychological well-being of people and especially those who are already very vulnerable. People can also die of loneliness. That psychological impact has been reported to us several times from the field. So it was important to formulate an answer to that. I also hear the concerns of the sector and understand them. That is why the Consultative Committee will examine this issue tomorrow. With regard to these visits, I would like to point out that this is a possibility, not an obligation, to be implemented by nursing homes. Of course, the latter may take the time they consider necessary to arrange for these visits. I would remind those who have forgotten that this decision has been taken in the National Security Council, therefore by common accord with the Ministers-Presidents of all the Regions and Communities. Flanders, Wallonia, Brussels, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and the German-speaking Community all agreed on this proposal. I would also point out that the choice to relax certain measures does not in any way mean a relaxation of the basic instructions. These remain unchanged until 3 May and must be respected. A new Security Council will be held on 24 April to address the future more accurately. That's right, we all need perspectives. These perspectives are essential if we are not to begin our determination to face, preferably together. But it must be understood that "perspective" can no longer be synonymous with "guarantee" or "precise or rigid timetable". Our decisions are made according to the evolution of the spread of the virus and will continue to be taken in this way. The aim will then be to be able to start gradually, gradually, deconfining from May onwards. So we need to look at the situation of schools, but more generally also internships, youth movements and holiday camps. The gradual reopening of businesses, shops and the catering industry should also be considered in the long term. These are just a few examples. All this must be done effectively in consultation with the sectors. It is already clear that no mass events, such as festivals, can be organised until 31 August. That decision also came at the request of the festival organizers. The progressive phasing-out will be bound by rules to ensure that the situation remains under control. We're gonna have to live with these new limitations for a while. Well, that's too bad, but it is. This means that teleworking remains the preferred option. People will have to stay at a safe distance from each other. As part of the phasing-out, this safe distance is the best protection against the spread of the virus. The wearing of masks will also play an important and very important role in the phasing out of measures. Finally, large-scale screenings and tracing the contacts of people who have been tested positively will be essential pillars of the exit strategy. In this respect, the Länder have an essential role to play. The phasing-out will therefore need to be closely monitored. As I said yesterday, it goes without saying that if this monitoring shows that decisions lead to a stronger spread of the virus, for example because they are not respected enough, they can be reversed in whole or in part at any time. Mr Hedebouw, you spoke about the socio-economic consequences of the crisis. Be assured that they continue to mobilize us. In addition to the many measures taken to preserve the purchasing power of workers whose enterprises have had to close down or continue to face difficulties, there are a number of facilities available to keep companies in afloat so that they can restart without too many obstacles – whether through national or European mechanisms. In this case, Mr. Hedebouw, we must not see it as blind and capitalistic support for businesses, but as support for workers. When a firm closes, you always signal that it is dramatic that employees lose their jobs. The question of recovery is going to arise, and even the question of the budget is going to arise. All of us here agree that it is a good thing that the budget issue has not yet been raised, as we must respond to emergencies. However, it will one day land, in view of its importance. As I have repeated again this morning, in order to speak in a balanced way of recovery, common sense choices will have to be made which will also relate to politics. In order for these choices to be as stable as possible, in the long run, to lead the country on reliable tracks, I remain convinced that a government with a parliamentary majority is necessary. That remains my conviction. Of course, this requires preliminary discussions between those who prefer taxes and those who prefer work flexibility. In any case, my certainty is that the truth is often – if not always – in the middle. Mr De Smet, as regards your question on the specific category of artists, they have a special regime. In order to qualify for unemployment, they must prove that they have remained without work for a number of days in the last 12 months. We have decided not to take the current period of crisis into account in this count. This means that artists who were entitled to unemployment before the crisis will retain this right during the crisis. I know it's a meagre consolation when you need to express yourself publicly. I hope that artists will be able to find other means to this end to go through, like others, in their own way, this crisis without too much trouble. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u18	I'll increase the usual one-minute reply time. It is good that Parliament is entitled to this debate, so instead of a minute we will almost double the reply time, but do not abuse it either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u19	Madam Prime Minister, I have listened very carefully to your reply. With regard to the uncertainty surrounding the residential care centres, you indicate that you want to provide an answer to the loneliness in the residential care centres and pay more attention to them. I understand the need to find a solution to this problem, and I understand it, but I do not understand a solution that is being put forward which is not really a solution. If we really want to do this, we need to go into consultation with the sector. I can't hear you saying again that it's forbidden. You say it is not an obligation, but in that way you actually transfer responsibility to the rest homes. After all, you create expectations in families, in children, in grandchildren: it is not forbidden, so it may be allowed. So you will pass the decision on to the rest homes that already have their hands full. The staff is short of hands and equipment, it's got the hands full. The mortality rates in the rest homes are higher than in the hospitals, and you need to take charge at that time. If the rest homes are not yet ready, then you should take the lead and say that this will not happen until there is a better solution. But you don't. I therefore regret that you are not taking up leadership in this matter and that you are moving the decision to the rest homes that are already full of them. In addition, you may laugh, Madam Prime Minister, but it's no laughing matter. It's not funny. You say the decision was made by all the parties at the table. I have one message for everyone who sat at the table and today opened his umbrella: people have no message about this spectacle. If those who gave their agreement yesterday but were not aware of the decision they made... there are many other decisions to be made. You rightly said that the crisis is not over. There are still a lot of difficult decisions coming our way. I sincerely hope that everyone realises that one should not open an umbrella, but should show leadership and responsibility, with clear communication and clear guidelines. Above all, good consultation with the sectors is needed before decisions are taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u20	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your extremely clear and comprehensive answer. With regard to nursing and nursing homes, it is indeed regrettable that there was no more upstream consultation, but I note with great satisfaction your commitment that all staff and residents, if I understood correctly, would be a priority audience for screening. One could add, and I insist, the parents who will be allowed to visit, if this measure ever happens. I hear it's a faculty. Without that, I really think we're running into disaster. If not only staff, residents, but also relatives who wish to visit them prior to this measure are found, there is a risk of recirculating the virus very seriously. That's what the doctors tell us. I think screening is the right solution. On the subject of artists, thank you for your reply. I understand – as Mrs Muylle had already told us last week – that the government has taken this step of extending the period during which contracts can be proven. It's very good and it's the least of the things because we don't see how they could have done it during this time, but I want to take over the sector by saying that it may not be enough. Indeed, simply extending the period is not enough for a sector that works very strongly on the determination of programming and dates. For this reason, the sector is asking that the dates that were foreseen in the containment period be used in some way in the calculation of artist status or in the calculation of compensations, otherwise the sector will be completely devastated after the crisis in the uncertain future. Thank you for thinking about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u21	Madam Prime Minister, I will begin with the positive point. I'm glad you're agreeing to our request to bring everyone together. It is true, the powers in our country are complex, and it is ultimately the Communities that are responsible for the housing centres. I am sorry, Madam Prime Minister, that the Consultative Committee is still waiting for two days. Two days between the decision and the additional consultation is too long. The lack of clarity that has arisen is a very regrettable matter. In fact, it's unacceptable! That's not just your responsibility at all. In this respect, I think a number of colleagues are going a little crazy. But for the people on the ground, it doesn't matter at all. I see you nodding. I'm sure you'll agree. But I really don't understand this. You say our people are getting tired of quarantine. I believe that the people are mainly tired of ministers walking each other's feet towards the TV studios and making contradictory statements. Many people are in the process of flattening the curve and politicians are currently working on the curve of the polls or perhaps the next elections. I really don't get it, and it makes me incredibly angry. I believe, Madam Prime Minister, that citizens should not be the victims of the complex division of powers. We will not change them suddenly either, but I hope that we will soon do so and that colleagues who want to make the country even more complex will abandon those dreams. The situation is what it is and that is why we need leadership and clarity. The same will soon apply to education. Let us please ensure that the measures are the same from Ostend to Arlen. Already it is announced that everyone will work on their own island. Today I heard Ben Weyts on the radio saying, "I'll do it." Ben Weyts should not do that, we need one clear message for all Belgians.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u22	Mr Calvo, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u23	I really want to ask you, Madam Prime Minister, if it's not easy, please do it. Get some clarity. I believe that people will really applaud for (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u24	Madam Prime Minister, Professor Vlieghe, the chair of the exit strategy task force, said this week: "If the hospitals worked as the government, then there weren't many survivors." A very striking quote! I'm afraid she's right. Fortunately, the hospitals were prepared. They have been able to avoid conditions such as in the Italian hospitals. This is in stark contrast to the unwillingness and incompetence of this government. You are still failing to do so, and I have to repeat this every week, unfortunately, in order to provide care workers, emergency services and security services with adequate protective equipment. Your great concern is to cover up figures so that these high mortality rates in the residential care centres are caused by a lack of testing capacity and a lack of protective equipment from the staff. You will now come to an end this week with premature visitation measures without any consultation. You are announcing this consultation for tomorrow, but it should have been done in advance, of course. The practical feasibility has not been considered at all. I agree, Mr Verherstraeten, that what is desirable should be possible, but do not communicate what is desirable but what is possible. Make sure there's a plan first and communicate beyond that plan, instead of making people false promises. Now it is the residential care centres that will have to disappoint people because you promise things that are virtually unfeasible. Unfortunately, you're right to say that the virus is impossible to stop. Fortunately, it is possible for this government's mischief. I am certainly pleased for you that the Brico will open again, because it will be more than necessary for this government's bricole work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must make a correct summary of what the current government has already done. It is, of course, always easy to postulate that we should have been better prepared for the crisis we are now experiencing. But I don't think anyone could. Mr Calvo, it's not just politicians who go to the studios. I especially see a lot of virologists and scientists crashing the studios every day. Nor would they have seen what the crisis would give at some point. The current government has acted very vigorously from the outset when it comes to the people who were the first victims of the crisis and the lockdown. Remember the bridging appropriations for the self-employed. Remember the mortgage loans and the bridging credits for people who had to pay off a loan. Remember the temporary unemployment which Mr Muylle has rolled out and helped over a million people in the very short term. The government deserves credit for this, also for the approach in hospitals. Let us be. The big challenge from the beginning was that we would have a hospital bed for everyone who was sick. At the moment, we are only at half capacity, while we are seeing our inflow rates fall. These are merits that the current government does have. In the residential care centres, in which we are still faced with very great challenges today, we will test all the people who are active, thanks to Philippe De Backer, which will give us a better view of the figures, which we will then be able to accurately record. After all, the statistics now contain a number of things that I do not think are right. Madam Prime Minister, my point and my question were partly about the exit. By April 2020, we still have to fight hard to get the healthcare crisis under control. By May 2020, we must be able to make the switch to the re-routing of economic activity in our country. We should be proud of our health care workers in the fight against the crisis. We can be proud of those who work every day in a hospital. However, let us be clear: we can only maintain and finance a healthcare system when many people in our country undertake and work every day and when people pay taxes on what they do and do today. Without the economy, there is no health care system anymore. We must therefore have a clear plan against the National Security Council next week. I hope to be able to face that with you. I look forward to being able to clarify all SMEs, retailers and self-employed by next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u26	Mr Lachaert, without a health system there is no economy either. Madam Prime Minister, you say here, and that is the political fact of this afternoon, that at the National Security Council everyone was aware of and agreed to the measure taken. Mr Verherstraeten, you call this a good measure, but you find the timing unfortunate. In debates like this, timing is, of course, everything. The debate is about timing, namely that these institutions are not yet ready to receive visitors. Madam Prime Minister, you say here, I understand that no one on the Security Council has asked whether this measure was first submitted to the sector itself. So you come together with the Security Council, you debate a measure, but there is simply no one asking if the sector knows anything. No one is asking that on the National Security Council: you are not, Mrs De Block is not, Mr Di Rupo is not, Mr Jambon is not. No one's asking, they're assuming. I understand you're having a hard time with this government. I understand very well that every time this government or the Security Council takes action and is flanked the day itself or afterwards from certain regions, this does not make it easy. I am also in favour of examining, after the crisis, how the federalism of competition that is destroying and crippling our country can be postponed. Let me tell you one thing: you can overcome this crisis if you rely on the people on the ground, if you rely on the unions, if you rely on the know-how that exists in all these centres not only in the elderly centres, not only in the care centres, but also in psychiatric institutions and in centres for people with disabilities on the ground. You can overcome this crisis if you go into consultation and rely on the people in our country, not if you ignore the know-how, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u27	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, you have been given powers of attorney. You have eliminated Parliament. There is a political office of party presidents. There's a National Security Council. There's a task force. You're saying there's another consultation committee tomorrow. Yet you have made it a chaos and a mess. If you want to be a leader, you need a certain credibility, Madam Prime Minister. I asked you a question earlier, but you did not answer it. You never go into anything. You always stick to generalities. I asked you if it's true that two of your virologists had to lie and say that mouth masks are useless? Is that true? That's what they said in the news yesterday. You don't have to shake your head, Mr. De Croo. You're watching the news, too. Today you come to say that your statistics are wrong, Madam Prime Minister. I have already said that we have four residential care centres and that there were 12 normal star cases. In your statistics, they're listed as coronados. Then where will you get the trust? Last night, right after your speech, I received a phone call from doctors in the home care centers where there's no contagion. So you will allow visitors, one visitor per inhabitant, at a time when the coronavirus is not present in some residential care centers. I welcome certain measures. I welcome your opening the garden centers. In fact, I think you should go further and think of an exit scenario, because the blood is starting to boil a little. Nevertheless, I find your decision to open the garden centres so that you can buy extra flowers to lay on the graves of the old people because you allow them to visit, even criminally.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u28	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your transparency and clarity. I assure you – sorry, Mr.Dedecker – you are very prime minister and you are credible. I think it is important to stress that. I really regret this foolishly political recovery that is being made by some of the unprecedented health crisis. We are facing a pandemic that we do not know. It is still normal for a government to adapt to changing circumstances. It is still normal that even the experts, who do not have the answer right away, reflect, inform and advise; and that all this evolve. As far as rest homes are concerned, I hear everyone indignant by saying that we are going to import the virus again. But you have to show some common sense. From the moment that soldiers are called to rescue, as well as volunteers, how do you want the elderly confined 24 hours a day in their room to understand that a perfect stranger, a soldier is called in as reinforcement, even to give them food, and that only one member of their family, the closest, cannot enter by taking strict precautionary measures? It's incomprehensible. At some point, common sense is needed. What did the government do? He gave the opportunity to a relative, only one, always the same, to visit a single and isolated person. How do you not want to accept this notion, for the mental health of our elders? They're dying, you have to realize that. Same thing about masks. Of course, the priority was containment and respect for containment. Imposing masks meant taking the risk of failing to comply with strict measures. It is necessary to adapt, and that is what this government is doing in the general interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u29	Madam Prime Minister, this morning I heard someone say that President Macron in France has it much easier than Prime Minister Wilmès in Belgium. I fully agree with that and it is not just a matter of division of powers. The IMF and other institutions say that the economic contraction in our country may be smaller than in our neighbouring countries. This is partly due to the socio-economic measures we have taken so far. Colleagues, let us, rather than pointing the finger, perhaps draw lessons from decisions that may not have been taken entirely according to the right timing. Madam Prime Minister, our focus is on consultation and small scale. I am talking about consultation with employers and employees on how we can re-launch our economy in the next few weeks and reopen the business now closed. I mean consultation with civil society and social organisations, in a small-scale way. Small is beautiful . Small scale is also healthier. How can we, in a healthy and safe way, and with respect for the balances to which the Prime Minister referred, bring families back together, have garden parties organized again and playgrounds and youth camps take place in the summer? The Belgians must be able to get back together in a healthy and safe way. This requires support and consultation, and then the decisions we make will be implemented and respected. The vast majority of our Belgians are making phenomenal efforts and have an enormous sense of responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u30	Mrs. Reuter, have you ever talked to the staff of the nursing homes? They all tell us the same thing: they don't have protective equipment. The equipment is not sufficient to ensure the safety of persons residing in their nursing homes. You're talking about the army and the volunteers. What world do you live in? Staff tell us he needs the masks for him! Prime Minister, I agree with you, we must make choices. I've offered you a choice and you don't answer it. Your government has ordered 34 F-35 for 15 billion euros and I ask you to cancel this order so that this money can be used for social and hospital purposes. I suggest this choice, but you do not answer it. That's impossible, isn't it? That's interesting, Minister. You played cards on the table. You said, who's talking about taxes? But there's another option. You're implying it's yours, and the MR's. This is about flexibility at work. Flexibility! Here we are already! In fact, all these sectors already have hyper-flexible working hours. You have also decided to increase overtime in the sectors. Work flexibility will increase while these workers already have incredible hours. I'll tell you, Madam Minister. I want to be clear. This crisis must be paid for by those who have the resources. One cannot ask the people to pay for this crisis. So, please, by making a capital tax, by making the multinationals pay more, one can help the SMEs and the employees, but not make them pay again, as in 2008.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u31	Madam Prime Minister, what is the definition of a mass event I did not get from your answer. However, I assume that this will be clarified on 24 April 2020. We understand very well that today, and probably next week, you will not be able to answer for the organisation of small events, such as small concerts, village parties, garden parties and so on. If you are going to make the decision, then someone will also have to decide on the spot and take account of the social distancing, with the fine-meshed screening of each event. That'll probably be the mayor. I advise you to place the governor at the mayor's office every time to avoid making different decisions in every municipality, so that the governor only bases himself on the orders he receives from the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u32	Madam Prime Minister, all the Belgians who heard you yesterday, all the families understood that, from Monday, they could visit their parents or grandparents in a nursing home. Now, rest homes will have to explain to them that this is not always possible. That's terrible! I think it's terrible. You announced that you will meet tomorrow with the Consultation Committee. I can only call you to consult the rest homes. Listen to them, but especially now find solutions so that this happens without the virus spreading. You know that nursing homes still have a shortage of protective equipment. Bringing in extra people is hundreds of thousands, and even millions of protective equipment needed per week. It is up to you to find solutions to allow the staff of the rest homes, who are already under stress, to take on additional workloads in order to be able to accompany the families. Allow me, Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, to once again try to convince you to bring about the mandatory wearing of the alternative fabric mask. Scientists spoke out, including in Belgium. It must be made mandatory for certain activities, particularly in shops and public transport, in order to maximize barrier measures, not only at the exit of containment but as soon as possible. The best would be right now. Let me just reiterate here that your government needs to listen more to the field, to consult and support health actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u33	Mr President, Prime Minister, this fight against coronavirus has started as a sprint and continues as a marathon. To succeed in a marathon, however, it takes both endurance and method. In my view, we must learn from what has happened in the last few hours. Without consultation, without the association of the various persons and institutions concerned, without allowing time for adaptation to implement the decisions that have been taken, the best of the ideas – I continue to think that the reopening of the rest homes is a positive prospect – cannot succeed. Subsequently, action will have to be taken by opting, even more so than today, for this method of listening and concertation. For the rest, our concern, in the context of the management of this crisis, of the fight against this virus, is still and always the health, the protection of the most fragile who are, today, in nursing homes that are still not sufficiently equipped and tested. Ensuring the provision of equipment and testing must be our priority. We are also concerned about artists, families who will find it even more difficult to extend confinement with regard to the custody of their children, especially when it comes to single-parent families. We also have concerns about the future of the budget outlook. But time will come to discuss these issues. In any event, discussions are already taking place internationally at the level of the World Health Organization, which is examining the possibility of collectivizing or privatizing solutions, vaccines. As far as we are concerned, we plead that they should be regarded as public goods accessible to all. Discussions are also taking place at European level on Eurobonds or coronabonds. At this level, we also want Belgium to play its leading historical role and defend the need for solidarity, which alone will enable us to emerge from the crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u34	Prime Minister, allowing visits under these conditions is opening Pandora's box. It also creates discrimination between the various institutions, those that have made the choice to continue prohibiting such visits, and those that have made the choice to allow them. It's also blurring the message at the family level. I take as proof the contacts I have made since last night, and more particularly this morning. The phone keeps ringing within the institutions. We must be honest: some families ask if visits will be allowed, but most of the time they are families who are concerned about these measures and their consequences. Moreover, no further information is available on this measure. We realize that rest homes, homes for people with disabilities and the various institutions were forgotten during this crisis. These places are not properly equipped. It is therefore difficult to understand that a loved one can visit a resident without a minimum of protection, especially masks that are sorely lacking. Of course, Madam Prime Minister, it is difficult, especially humanly. I see it all the more easily as I myself have relatives in an institution of care. But precisely because I love them, I will make the choice not to visit them for the moment. I think we also need to trust the health care staff. In this crisis, its members redouble their efforts, attention and love for the residents. This is certainly not worth the love of a family, but it still compensates. More than ever, we must be patient. I heard you say this morning that we need to act step by step. I think the first step is massive and complete testing. All staff and residents must be tested. The second stage is the consultation with the federations of nursing homes. Then we have to make a decision. I hope, Madam Minister, that you will come back to this decision. It would grow you. I know you can.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u35	As agreed, I now give the floor to Mr De Roover, as the last speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u36	Madam Prime Minister, this matter seems to be the right time for some people to seek political gain. We heard the attacks by Mr Calvo and Mr Hedebouw, which totally rip Mr Jambon out of context and insinuate the opposite of what he said. You have made this decision with the right intention because there is a poignant loneliness in the rest homes. The lockdown, which for many of us means that we have to function in difficult circumstances for a few weeks, means for many of those people the lockdown of their last weeks of life. Those weeks of life must now be spent in absolute loneliness. I call on everyone to find solutions to this distressing problem. This is a deeply human problem, not a political problem, of people who have to spend their last few weeks of life without family members or friends. If you are looking for solutions, I support you, and you have made the right choice. However, your communication was wrong, let's be honest about that, too. There wasn't enough consultation. When we take this necessary step, we must ensure that the health care institutions can organise it in absolutely healthy conditions. We must then once again cut the problem of the tests, the mouth masks and the protective material. In this respect, the question of all those who work in retirement homes should be taken absolutely seriously. I also have the impression that all those responsible take this question seriously. So let us give this priority in this matter and not make it a political story. Secondly, we ask you to put a clear exit strategy on the table next week. You must ensure that there are no new misunderstandings (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u37	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am likely to repeat myself. The corona crisis has been affecting health care and the economy in our country for weeks now. Self-employed people and businesses had to close their doors and see their income imploded, while costs continue to run. A lot of people are at home, in temporary unemployment and insecurity. We all do what is necessary for everyone's health, but it is starting to weigh very heavily on our country and on our economy. As Mr Lachaert said, a well-functioning economy is the basis for supporting our prosperity economy. We have done what had to be done for health, and we have seen governments taking a lot of measures in recent weeks to reduce the economic impact. You, as Minister of Finance, caused, among other things, a postponement of payment of taxes and loans and a bank guarantee for new loans. The government also provided for a temporary unemployment scheme and bridging appropriations for the self-employed. That was desperately necessary. These measures offer people and our businesses partial solutions, giving them the necessary breathing space. Hopefully, that way, most people will be able to survive in this crisis. We cannot, however, continue to do so indefinitely. Everyone is aware that we will be billed for this and that it will be heavy. For this reason alone, we need a concrete and negotiated plan to start the economy again quickly, safely and gradually. On the human side, we all need a perspective and we must be able to prepare ourselves to get back to work together. I say together, because everyone has to be positive about that. I read in the press that the companies are eager, but the unions are on the brakes. It hurts me to read something like that, because everyone is convinced that we have done everything we have done for everyone's health. The companies will ensure that their workers remain healthy. We cannot shut down the economy for months. That would be a catastrophe, and that is already for many. Mr Vice-Prime Minister, do you have any idea of a cost estimate of all aid measures at federal level? How many tax reductions do you expect this year as a result of the corona crisis? Last but not least, how will the government re-launch our economy step by step and in consultation? How is the exit strategy prepared economically? We are all looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u38	Mrs Verhelst, thank you for your question. As you said yourself, the economic costs for companies but also for employees, self-employed and SMEs of the crisis and the lockdown are very high. The National Bank and the Federal Planning Office are talking about a contraction of 8% and a recovery of 8.6 % next year. The IMF is talking about a contraction of almost 7%. Our country will face a smaller contraction than other countries in the euro area, as Mr Verherstraeten said. The National Bank also assumes a deficit on the nominal balance of 7.5%. From the ERMG survey of 7,000 companies, it was expected that this year's turnover would fall by 37%. The latest estimates in March for tax revenue in February are, of course, worthless. Advance payments between 1 January and 16 April are already EUR 2.2 billion lower. I think that gives only a limited picture of the impact that the corna crisis will have. A lot of activities were forced to shut down. We have taken measures to help companies, but the best measure we can take is a safe, planned restart of activities. That is the best solution to help the companies through and also the best solution so that the government does not need to dig the well unnecessarily deep. The ERMG and the exit group are working on this. They are considering making a protocol for each sector explaining the circumstances and timing in which sectors can restart their activities. In other words, we will only start at 50% in certain sectors and perhaps use other tools to ensure safety. The question was to present those protocol agreements against the next meeting of the National Security Council on 24 April in order to give the companies the time to prepare for a planned restart. We had to take action very quickly. The release of these measures can be planned in advance, and we can do so in a very structured way. I look forward to that meeting of the National Security Council. I think that many people are looking forward to the clarity that the National Security Council must give about how we can start up economic and social life in our country again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for the figures. I am pleased that there will be consultation with the sectors, but it is also important to note that very many companies that are now at a standstill have already thought very hard about how to start up as soon as possible; preparations have been under way since the day they stopped. It is crucial that we get back to work. It is the best guarantee to maintain the purchasing power of the employees, it is the best guarantee to re-generate the companies rather than give aid, it is the best guarantee not to see public finances as a permanent solution. Everyone has worked together for health and now everyone should be able to contribute very quickly to the reconstruction of our economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u40	Minister, the crisis we are going through is unprecedented. To date, more than two million cases have been officially recorded worldwide, with more than 130,000 deaths. Many voices speak out and question the strategy of the World Health Organization (WHO). On December 31, 2019, the WHO was first arrested by the Chinese authorities and made aware of a suspicious number of patients with a form of pneumonia. On 7 January, the Chinese authorities isolated the new coronavirus and five days later, the WHO shared the sequential genome of the virus with the public. The WHO strategy is being questioned and some see a rapprochement between the United Nations organization and the Chinese authorities. According to some people, this rapprochement would have allowed the virus to spread. The United States, by the voice of President Trump, echoed their scepticism and announced the suspension of their $400 million share of the WHO budget. This questioning follows the seriousness of the crisis, but it is worth recalling that the WHO is an organization that fights many diseases, such as Ebola, and that its work is vital to the health of millions of people. Minister, what is Belgium's share of the WHO budget? What is the Belgian position on WHO action? Do any European Union countries have any reservations about how to deal with this crisis? Do you have any information on the logistical, human and financial resources WHO has to deal with this crisis? Do you have any feedback from WHO on allegations of misconduct? Will an independent investigation be necessary once the crisis is over or does WHO have the appropriate tools? Does the withdrawal of US funding create difficulties in the functioning of the WHO?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u41	Mr De Maegd, following the US decision to suspend support for WHO, Belgium, through my voice and that of Foreign Minister Philippe Goffin, affirmed the continued commitment to WHO. WHO plays an important role in addressing this VOCID-19 pandemic. Stopping funding is the last thing to do at a time like this when WHO is distributing equipment, displacing rapid teams, helping the whole world at the level of advice and information, and what is more, to the weakest countries that are likely to be most affected by this crisis. Stopping the funding of an organization now because we have some doubts about certain aspects of its operation is, in my view, the last thing to do. Will it be necessary at some point to make an in-depth evaluation of the functioning of WHO? Yes, certainly. In fact, I think it is necessary to do so for every international organization, but should we do so now, when this organization is in full commitment to help the whole world? I think this is clearly the wrong time. Cessation of funding now is a very bad idea. Belgium's funding to WHO in 2018 and 2019 amounted to €7.5 million annually, of which €4 million is a voluntary payment, that is, beyond our obligation. We will continue to work together with WHO and not just with VOCID-19. WHO is a long-standing partner in the fight against pandemics, but also in the construction of the health care system around the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, I hear Belgium's support for the World Health Organization in these times of crisis. Secondly, whatever happens, it will be necessary to learn the lessons of this pandemic and its international management by WHO, with this crucial question: does WHO have the power of injunction from Member States to obtain and verify accurate information? I remember that one of the deputy heads of the WHO Director returned from an inspection mission to Wuhan, where the pandemic was born, expressing satisfaction with the information provided "with all due sincerity". Has the WHO shown slight guilt in the face of the cover-up by some of the scale of the crisis? Only certainty, a more transparent communication of all actors at the beginning of the crisis would have enabled many countries to better anticipate and prepare for this pandemic and thus avoid thousands of victims. We hope, Minister, that the international management of this matter can be fully clarified and that everyone will be able to determine the responsibilities in order to prevent and, if necessary, anticipate the occurrence of another crisis of the same kind in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u43	Minister, last weekend the riots in Anderlecht must count on the disapproval of all of us. The reason doesn't really matter very much. The fatal accident involving a 19-year-old who was invoked as a bad excuse for rioting is not of that nature to have this effect. It doesn't matter whether the fugitive was a choir boy or whether in the past several times the court had been eligible. No, Minister, there should be no excuses. I am tired of listening to the confessions of the past few days: the weather was warm, there is a certain lockdown fatigue among young people. Minister, while our people must adhere to strict corona measures, certain immigrant young people feel it is necessary to join groups in the streets and destroy them. While our doctors, our nurses, our caregivers go day in and day out from the fight against the corona virus, immigrant rioters set fire, they run off with a police weapon and they squash police combi's. That is unacceptable crapular behaviour, Minister. It can't be handled hard enough. Hence my questions to you, Minister. How many rioters were identified? How many were apprehended administratively and judicially? How many have been apprehended at the moment? Are these criminals also being prosecuted for violating corona law? Will this be done by means of a rapid legal procedure? Finally, Minister, you announced a zero tolerance via the media. I wonder how the police can interpret this and when this zero tolerance will be maintained?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u44	Mr President, Minister, there is a great contrast between the indignation and anger of people who are on the line of fire every day, such as policemen, paramedics and caretakers in the broad sense, and, on the other hand, very dubious political statements of certain excellence. I have heard you as Minister condemning the riots in Anderlecht. You have expressed your support for our policemen, which, of course, is quite right and proper. However, I have also heard other voices, including from Brussels Minister Dalle, whose statements are not good and totally unjustified. Minister Dalle has actually taken a walk on the boulevard or broken dreams: youth is not a black and white story, which young people have too little perspective, they have had unfair opportunities. Forgive me, Minister, but such statements are quatsch in corona times. We are absolutely in favour of the zero tolerance policy you announced in the media. How will you do that, however? Young criminals throwing a molotov cocktail, can't we just call and ask how they're doing at home with their briquets? Minister, how many rioters have been identified at the moment? How many of them have been apprehended? Will you change the power of attorney decision? After all, it is a missed opportunity, since young criminals between 16 and 18 years of age cannot get an immediate friendly settlement, nor can they be directly covered by the GAS legislation, nor can they be pedagogically corrected. Assuming they have to be prevented, they will appear before a court of law if they have long been of age. Finally, I would like to hear from you whether and how broad your position on zero tolerance is supported within the current power of attorney government. What are your concrete plans for zero tolerance in the Brussels police zone?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u45	Mr President, Mr Depoostere and Mr D'Haese, I will answer the questions you have asked. At the moment, a court investigation is under way by the court following the death of a scooter driver last Friday. Saturday, however, degenerate what would initially be a moment of mourning and remembrance, in outright riots in Anderlecht by young people who have turned against police and order. I have already said that these disturbances and the violence against the police are totally unacceptable and that I also strongly condemn them. The fatal accident was used by rioters as a pretext to make amok and destroy. No one can, and should, understand the attitude of these young people, who are far from being compatible with our social order. I would like to thank the Mayor of Anderlecht, with whom I have contacted, for his involvement, as well as the police officers of the Brussels-South zone and the federal police for their very professional and decisive action. A total of 146 persons were held by the administration. Several minutes were written out for disorderly conduct and all received a report under the COOVID-19 measures for non-compliance with the co-training ban, including the charge of detained minors. On 12 April, 58 persons were still held by the administration. In accordance with Article 31 of the Police Office Act, this deprivation of liberty may never exceed the time required by the circumstances justifying it and may under no circumstances exceed 12 hours. However, this does not relieve them of persecution and/or punishment. An internal task force is working to analyse the available images in order to identify the perpetrators and identify criminal offences, as I did after the riots in Molenbeek. Up to now, several judicial minutes have been drawn up, including at least one report of assault. In the meantime, several of the perpetrators were identified and apprehended. Further investigation follows. The full cooperation of the Brussels parquet is guaranteed and a reference magi street has been designated. Finally, I did propose zero tolerance. We therefore opt for a strong and detained presence of the police on the premises and in the street view. In doing so, immediate arrests or arrests are carried out in order to eliminate any new riots immediately. The reserve of the federal police is also operationally ready for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u46	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I will not hide the fact that I sometimes feel some sympathy for the harsh words you say to the rioters. But after words, Minister, action must also be followed. If that racaille cannot conform to our standards and values, they are putting themselves out of our society. It is then the duty of you and our policy makers to remove them from society. The apparent impunity, in which perpetrators sometimes walk free again after 24 hours, is not a good signal. Minister, we must place the young people concerned and their parents on their responsibilities and make them pay for the costs they have incurred. In addition, together with your fellow Minister Koen Geens, you must draw up a plan to put those offenders and offenders quickly incarcerated, as long as the corona measures are in force. Mr Minister, my last but not least appeal is next. Let the fear change camp. Support our police. Give them the mandate to clean up that rabble.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u47	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. You communicated that well. However, the reality is harder and demands that we move a little bit higher. At this very moment, one of the officers involved in the incident in Anderlecht must be given protection within my police area, because he gets threats from the environment. So it's definitely more than five to twelve. I'm curious. After all, we are facing difficult Ramadan days and weeks. We must dare to recognise this in all openness and reality. We need a clear signal. The task force is certainly a good thing. However, we must dare to go further. I therefore wonder how you will bridge the ideological gaps in the coming weeks. After all, you are the man of zero tolerance. At the Brussels level, there is rather a condoning tone. At Walloon level it is almost abattoir, if we dare to stigmatize those people. So there's an incredible amount of work on the shelf. I really hope you deal with the problem. In times of corona and in times of crisis, (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u48	Mr President, Madam Minister, "There is no shortage of medicines in hospitals," that is what you said again this morning in the press. And yet, Madam Minister, doctors have been worried for weeks about the shortage, especially of sedatives indispensable for the management of certain patients with coronavirus and admitted to resuscitation. Hospitals inform us that we have to wait the last minute to warn of a shortage and not always have a response from the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS). Agency that evokes the possibility of using animal anesthetics to treat our patients. We know that a cat has been reported positive for coronavirus, but still, we think we're dreaming! The president of ABSyM, this Sunday, felt that the shortage that lies ahead could lead hospitals to make choices, patient selections on the basis of criteria that would exceed the medical criteria alone, thus believing that people with disabilities would become non-priority. Madam Minister, these are totally inaudible, totally intolerable words that you should have immediately reframed again, which you have not done. No amalgam can ever be operated between disability, medical condition, life expectancy or quality of life. Madam Minister, I will not accept today that you consider this information relayed by the field of "fake news" or that you name those caregivers who worry about "drama queens". If you continue to say that there is no shortage of medicines, and therefore of sedatives, of curares for human use, then why also use veterinary medicines today? What about the actual stock of medicines for human use? What about the quantities being delivered? What about the possible production of these drugs in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u49	Mrs Tillieux, let me be very clear: there is no total shortage of medicines in hospitals. No patient was denied VOCID-19 treatment due to lack of medication. It is true that the need for certain essential drugs in intensive care treatments has greatly increased, such as sedatives, curares and opiates. This is normal because many more patients are cared for through intensive care in hospitals than before. It is also true that the stock of certain intensive care drugs is under stress. This is why the experts of the Federal Medicines Agency work 7 days a week, day and night, to find solutions. Indeed, if calculations based on available stocks and forecasting models show that the stock of a drug is insufficient to cover the coming weeks and months, a team is called upon to proactively search for additional stocks to avoid a shortage. This has been done for weeks and, for every possible solution, we always check whether safety and quality can be guaranteed. With regard to the use of veterinary medicinal products, these are not cat or dog medicines, as Mr Devos said. It should be noted that the veterinary medicinal products taken into account contain the same active substances, the same excipients, sometimes at different doses, but which meet the same quality standards as medicinal products for human use. AFMPS experts analyse the compatibility of veterinary medicinal products for human use. It is only if there is no risk that the veterinary medicinal product is taken into account as an alternative. It's hard for me to imagine that a doctor doesn't know all this and sows panic in the press about it. This period is confusing and distressing for many people. So, the last thing we need right now is panic about our health care. We have enough beds. We have enough drugs and health care staff. I therefore urge you not to relay such unfounded assertions. What we all have to do today is stay home to avoid further contamination. As for doctors, they really need to know what they're saying because patients are already worried enough about going to the hospital or the doctor. It's serious too!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u50	Madam Minister, when the doctors told you at the beginning of March that it was absolutely necessary to extend the screening, when the laboratories told you at the same time that the tests and the reagents would be insufficient, when we, the parliamentarians, told you that we had to anticipate some more questions, by talking to you already about the masks and the blouses, you laughed at us! Yet the acute crisis situation we are experiencing today shows, with more than 5,000 deaths and more than 5,000 patients still hospitalized, that you should have listened to and heard these alarms. Minister, it is time to do so today, and to listen to the ground. It is time to inform him clearly of the situation with regard to stocks of essential medicines. We must not let the actors of the field navigate on sight. They simply need to be allowed to do their job and therefore to care for each patient as best as possible with the necessary equipment and treatments. The doctor who speaks is none other than the president of ABSyM. It's not just anyone!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u51	We have to conclude, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u52	(...) criteria other than health status and the existence of other co-morbidity criteria are taken into account in order to admit a patient to intensive care, for example. As an authority it is your duty to urgently recall this essential message in the anxiogenic context, as you say so well, of this crisis of the coronavirus, to reassure families, patients, people with disabilities and young people in difficulty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u53	I would like to remind all members, as well as members of the government, once again that speaking time must be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u54	Madam Minister, security of energy supply is of course very important, as is the need to have sufficient control over energy costs for citizens and businesses. The uncertainty in this area is very great, and this has not improved with the corona crisis. Very little progress has been made in the area of support mechanisms for gas plants, which I asked you about in January of this year. Yesterday, in committee, it became clear that you do not even have an appointment with the European Commissioner today. While last year counted every second to get the system operational, we now see time ticking away, time that we never really had. Colleagues, I think that in these circumstances the extension of the life of the youngest nuclear power stations should not be taboo. More and more colleagues, recently members of your two coalition partners, put forward this suggestion, both in front of and behind the scenes. I think that's the way forward, that's the way forward. A first important step is the start of preparatory calls with the operator. That is what we are asking for in our resolution, which we have tabled in Parliament, to enable Parliament to take an informed decision afterwards. Let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen, today there is no one who can say whether and when the mechanism that Europe needs to look at will be approved. There is no one who can tell me how high the costs for families and businesses will be. There is certainly no one in this country who can say whether sufficient capacity will be available by 2025 to replace the production of nuclear power plants, which accounts for half of our energy supplies. Given the importance of my question to the government, I had initially addressed it to the Prime Minister. Madam Secretary, what will you do? Will you start these talks and enable Parliament to work on them? Or will you bet it all works out? I know what my group wants to do; I look forward to the government's vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u55	Mr Wollants, the energy issue is seen as a delicate balance between three poles, namely security of supply, economic and social accessibility of energy and the impact on climate and the environment. Nevertheless, given the importance for society, it is clear that security of energy supply is a priority. I do not need to remind you that I am neutral about nuclear energy: I am not in favour or against. All energy sources, i.e. not all sources except one, are pros and cons. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that for the past five and a half years in which I was in office, there has been no blackout due to insufficient supply of electricity. Moreover, the average price of electricity remained at a very reasonable and affordable level. Our electricity sector is still one of the best in the world in terms of CO2 emissions. There were no serious accidents in the sector with major consequences for the population or the environment. Finally, we have made great progress in a whole range of areas. For example, we set up the Energy Transition Fund, the NEKP was established, there were better results in relation to offshore energy and a law was passed on the CRM. For the CRM, Mr Wollants, contrary to what you are saying, although I do have a second appointment with Mrs Vestager, we continue to work to make progress on this issue at European level. Indeed, I am determined to move it forward. That said, it is true that in view of the situation we are in, Parliament could take up this issue for the future of our energy transition and choose a path. As far as the government is concerned, as long as the government is not in full exercise, no direction can be given. But I recall that, as far as I'm concerned, I look at things in a technical and not an ideological way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u56	Madam Minister, I have limited myself to a question with the idea that this might be the easiest thing to do. You didn't actually answer it. By focusing on the CRM, while its implementation has already been delayed and the regulator resists it, you are losing so much time that the gas plants will never or never be operational by 2025. You say we'll see. Madam Secretary, that is an incredibly heavy gamble, because if the power stations don't turn, then the light goes out here. You take responsibility for that piste. That's not the way I look at that file. I believe that our citizens and businesses are entitled to a sound price and security of supply. As far as those examples from the past are concerned, all well and good, we did not have to deal with a blackout and the prices did indeed remain reasonable. But, of course, no nuclear power plant was shut down either. This means that if you do, if you close 6,000 MW, there may be problems. We have had these studies carried out, and you know that very well. It's irresponsible policy. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, for the second time, please respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u58	Madam Minister, yesterday the government announced that next week the National Security Council would consider the possibility of a phased start-up of companies after 3 May. I understand that many people are starting to get need of perspective. I am thinking first of all of the many families in temporary unemployment who are beginning to worry about how much longer they will be able to overcome the crisis with this huge loss of income. The companies also need perspective. Some are concerned that they will not go down completely. I'd like to ask you not to start experimenting wildly. Neither our health nor our economy will benefit from a rekindling of the virus if we let everyone go. That would completely negate the hard work we have made so far. In my view, a phased reopening of companies can only be achieved by means of clear directives, clear directives which give every employee sufficient certainty that he can work safely. These clear guidelines must be drawn up in consultation with experts, in the interests of everyone's health, but also in consultation with the social partners. The trade union representatives are best aware of the situation on the ground. Clear guidelines mean more than just announcing a one-and-a-half meter economy. Rebooting may also require investments in protective equipment, for which some preparation time is required. Madam Secretary, I have two questions for you. How will you organise this consultation so that there are clear guidelines and the necessary time is taken to prepare for restart? By when will these directives be ready?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u59	Mr President, Mrs Vanrobaeys, I fully agree with you when you say that workers' health is paramount. It will therefore be incredibly important to take sufficient preventive measures when restarting. I get a lot of questions, both from employees and employers, about how this can be done. It is true that the question has come up more in recent days. I also read a lot of statements about this in the press, even with dates and protocols and plans and the question of who will do all that. Someone's gonna have to. My feeling, and you know the social dialogue very well, is not to do so in the media, but to prepare it in silence and to seek support. That's what I do. At the request of the experts of the GEES, the Economic Risk Management Group started working on this. It already has a very practical toolbox ready today, to see how we can come up with a set of measures. The intention is to submit that toolbox to the High Council for Prevention and Protection at Work. We're working on that. That seems to me to be the right organ. This includes expertise and includes employers, employees, external prevention services and experts. The aim is to create a generic set of measures that will apply to all. Mrs Vanrobaeys, you are well aware that this will not be the right solution for every sector, so in addition to this general set of measures, we must also provide for measures which are very specific and specific to a particular sector and even to a company level. What's the timing and trajectory? This morning there was another consultation of my policy cell with the people of the Supreme Court and with the social partners in the Supreme Court. We hope to have an initial proposal there tomorrow. The aim of this proposal is to get to the Group of Ten as quickly as possible, to reach agreement on these sets of general, generic measures and from there to see how we can develop them at a sector-wide and enterprise level. For me, it is extremely important that this is carried by employers and employees. Especially after the discussion that we have had in Parliament today, it is incredibly important to do preparatory work there and to find support for it on behalf of everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u60	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. Indeed, support is crucial if we are to work towards a future perspective. Yesterday, I got a call from a friend who works in an institution for people with disabilities. She stated that yesterday the staff were crying because a decision was taken above their head and the staff were not prepared at all. I believe that the path you are taking to achieve a phased start-up is crucial. In addition, I am thinking of negotiated measures, for which I refer to the Netherlands as an example, where protocols are also being worked on. In the protocols in the Netherlands there is always a part enforcement and supervision. I believe that this part too is important, so that the necessary security and security can be given to those who resume work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u61	That brings us to the end of the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u62	You have received an amended draft agenda for today's meeting. You have received an amended draft agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u63	Colleagues, I have given all Members of Parliament an order motion by Mr Hedebouw. That motion is related to our remuneration as such. I will apply the Rules of Procedure, Mr Hedebouw. I'll say something that will please you and something that won't please you. An order-of-order motion may bring you forward when it comes to the regulation of our work, but what you intend to do with your order-of-order motion is immediately to allow the substantive discussion of a proposal in the context of the Chamber's plenary session. You could, mutatis mutandis, ask for the floor in order to deal with a legislative proposal not first in committee, but to move directly to the plenary. I can't let you do that. I cannot therefore declare your order to be admissible. You know the Bureau of the Chamber is meeting next week. It is the Bureau of the Chamber that should be able to give its opinion on the Statute of all Members in the first order. I will propose your point of substance for discussion to the Bureau of the Chamber and ask the services to prepare themselves thoroughly for that debate. I ask you and all the other groups not to start the substantive discussion now, because I do not declare the motion admissible. So you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u64	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u65	No, I declared the motion inadmissible. No, I'm not giving you the floor. I said that the item would be placed on the agenda of the Bureau of the House next week and that I will not open the discussion here. Mr Hedebouw, if you wish to speak, I must also give the floor to the other members of the Chamber who are asking to speak. Then we are in the middle of the substantive discussion. I'm telling you, your order motion is inadmissible. I shall add the motion to the agenda of the Bureau of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u66	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Fonck, who refers to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u67	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u68	May I ask for respect for our work? I still arrange the work and apply the Rules of Procedure, whether you like it or not, Mr Hedebouw. Who is asking for the floor in the context of the general discussion?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u69	Mr President, the draft law before us creates mixed feelings. It's a huge tangle in which a cat finds her boy hard to find. It's very inconvenient. I'm not the only one who says that, the Council of State did. There would be measures for the patient, Madam Secretary. You have succeeded: there are indeed measures for the patient. If it's okay, we'll say it, too. The brake money of a whole range of medicines is falling, which means that the patient has to pay less, and that is a good thing. However, such costs must also be paid, but by whom? You are knocking on the door of the pharmaceutical industry, Madam Secretary, and you are imposing a great deal of measures on it. As the pharmaceutical industry is responsible for exceeding its budget every year, it seems logical to us that it should pay that bill. After all, other sectors are doing their best to keep to the budgets and cannot therefore be penalised because one sector is increasingly exceeding the budget. One of the other measures, Madam Minister, is to abolish the safety margin. In itself, this is a good initiative, if it does not lead to the unavailability of these medicines. In committee, the Flemish interest has also stressed this many times and also asked whether abolishing the safety margin will not lead to more shortages. It cannot be the intention to make the already long list of unavailable medicines even longer. The Council of State also had a comment on this: "The claim that abolishing the safety margin would have a positive impact on the fight against poverty should be substantiated in the explanatory memorandum." A further question that we are sure is whether the hospitals will not pass on the additional costs this measure entails to the patient. The Flemish Interest will support Mr Fonck's amendment. We also call for a wider debate on hospital funding. With a view to a thorough reform of the hospital financing system, consultations with stakeholders are urgently needed in order to ensure a sustainable and financially viable system. Some of the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have been rejected. As far as 10 is concerned, we stick to our view that it is not this one article that needs to be changed but that the whole procedure needs to be revised. We will not therefore vote for the amendment because we believe that those who are responsible for its budget should be responsible for it. On the other hand, we will support the sub-amendment which we received very late on the bus. Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 10, 10, 11, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, We don't have a problem with that. Ladies and gentlemen, the Flemish interest will support this draft law because we know that it is of paramount importance for the continuity of our health care. We also hope that these measures will certainly be evaluated and monitored and adjusted if necessary. However, after the corona crisis, we need a sound reform of our healthcare system, in cooperation with all sectors and based on a long-term vision. In the meantime, I hope that we will be able to find out how important our health care is.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have had ample opportunity to debate this matter in committee. For us, it is fair that the pharmaceutical industry can make its contribution. Indeed, it is known that innovative medicines are a burden on the health care budget. It was important to find solutions so that the budget could keep going and, above all, continue to provide the necessary resources for patients and institutions, including the hospital sector. It is of course not today that we will say the opposite!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u71	Mr President, I would like to point out that this project will allow patients to pay for their medicines cheaper by reducing the user ticket for a total of EUR 58 million. However, I would like to raise an aspect that has not convinced us, despite the many discussions we have had in the Committee on Public Health. I am referring to the amendment tabled by our colleagues in Sp.a on the clawback mechanism (indemnity assessment). The aim of this amendment is to remove the limitation of the compensation contribution in the event of exceeding the budgetary objective and to exempt certain medicinal products. Unfortunately, we are not convinced, because it seems to us that this measure would create unequal treatment that is not based on any objective element. In addition, this amendment restricts the application of an indemnity contribution to certain firms whose expenditure has not necessarily contributed to an exceedance of the objective, while others are exempt from contributions although they market medicines which may lead to budget overruns. As a reminder, the introduction of the compensation contribution in 2006 was intended to cover 65 % of the share of pharmaceutical companies in the event of budget overruns, the remaining 35 % being supposed to cover VAT, pharmacy fees and distribution margins. Subsequently, the contribution was limited to a nominal amount and, at present, to 2.5% of turnover. We are in favour of correction in the event of budget overruns. That said, it is also a matter of keeping in mind that this adjustment should take place within a stable framework. When decisions are taken, it seems equally essential to continue to focus on innovation in this area and to anchor the production of medicines in Belgium even more sustainably. Is it necessary to recall this in the light of the crisis we are currently experiencing? That is why we want to table a new amendment to this text, proposing that, from 2020 onwards, the target budget ceiling for proprietary medicinal products will be 4% and that, from 2021 onwards, it will reach at least 4% and be determined by deliberate decision in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group naturally supports Minister De Block's bill. The amendment to set the clawback at 4% represents a compromise both for the sector and from an economic point of view and for the patient. This will enable us to ensure that Belgium remains a sufficiently interesting investment market, including for industry. Our group is particularly satisfied with the savings that will directly benefit the patient. The design ensures that 65 million euros that would come out of the patient's pocket will currently be imposed as savings. A large part of the savings will be achieved by the abolition of the reference supplements. Previously, there was justified concern about its impact and whether this could lead to indirect inability. The Minister said that we should not worry about that. We have confidence in the administration to ensure, respectively, the accessibility for the patient and the sustainability of health insurance, especially now that it is facing an unprecedented health crisis. We welcome the abolition of the five-euro supplement by the patient today. Our group will therefore approve this draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u73	Mr President, in Belgium we are paying far too much for medicines. When I saw the title of the bill "Measures of savings in pharmaceuticals," I was quite enthusiastic. But we have had to see that this text proposes only small changes to the margin and does not go to the bottom of the possibilities of lower prices for medicines and possible savings. One of the interesting measures is indeed the removal of the €5 safety margin, which penalized the patient financially and allowed firms to keep an artificially high price for an old medicine, while the longer a medicine is on the market, the lower the price. The PTB supports the kiwi model. In one study, we applied this model to 25 outpatient drugs in Belgium. When applying the principle of invitations to tender, one can save 400 million euros per year on these 25 ambulatory medicines. For example, in Belgium, the 40 mg omeprazole box is paid 33 euros, while in the Netherlands, it is paid 3 euros, i.e. 90 % cheaper. Significant price reductions are therefore possible, but we are not applying them today. What is being proposed today is the rupee of Sansonnet in view of what is really possible. With respect to Mrs. Fonck's amendment to the cost savings that this bill could bring to hospitals, we will support it. Legally, hospitals have to tender for the medicines they have to buy and this allows them to save between 30 and 40 per cent. This shows that this tender procedure on the whole market for medicinal products, which is based on the kiwi model supported by the PTB, will lead to considerable price reductions, including for innovative medicinal products. The bill provided that some of the savings made by hospitals were expected to return to INAMI. Hospitals need money and we will therefore support the amendment. Ultimately, the price of medicines can be lower and we can all benefit from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u74	Belgium is often described as a pharma valley, which is also true. We count relatively many production sites and multiple research facilities of pharmaceutical companies, while our country is also leader in clinical trials. Belgium is also a biotech country. So the sector brings a lot of jobs, exports and investments in R&D to our country. A positive ecosystem was developed through the Future Pact, which seeks to maintain the balance between stimulating innovation and bringing it quickly and sustainably to the patient. That ecosystem is also strict. In recent years, the RIZIV budget for proprietary medicinal products has been significantly saved. Those savings were used to bring innovation to the patient faster. Think of immunotherapy or CAR-T therapies. That exercise was repeated in 2020. The structural savings for the public budget amount to around 160 million euros. There is also a significant saving for the patient bill of EUR 58 million in the measures, including the deletion of the safety margin, which has already been mentioned by a number of Members. This brings the industry's total effort to nearly EUR 220 million per year. The savings were also used to eliminate some distortions in the market. For example, the use of a safety margin of EUR 5 without impact on the status of cheapest medicine is completely eliminated. This will allow more competition on the off-patent market. The savings are also used to bring about a dynamic in the organic pharmaceutical market. In addition, a number of statutory price reductions are further deepened or pushed forward. If the budget is exceeded, it must be compensated. However, the mechanism used to compensate for the overrun must not destroy the ecosystem, which has been carefully built up. A positive ecosystem is necessary if we are to continue to encourage the development of new medicines and vaccines, for example for COOVID-19, in our country. If we want to anchor the production of medicines in our country, which is also important in today's COOVID times, the ecosystem must not only work strictly and fairly, but also economically stimulatingly. Finally, it is important, all the more so at this time of struggle against COOVID-19, that Belgium is noticed in the headquarters of pharmaceutical companies by its positive but strict policy, and not by a tax on innovation. That is why we can support Mr Piedboeuf's amendment to the MR. Indeed, he found a compromise with a proper mechanism to compensate for exceedances and the sector's response.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u75	Mr President, I am glad that this draft can be finally discussed in plenary. This is also happening in a constructive spirit. A number of people have already witnessed this. Those who stop making medicines cheaper and more accessible serve interests other than those of patients. It is regrettable that such practices have been going on for several weeks. A strong government stands up for the patients and the caregivers; the shareholders of the large pharmaceutical companies do not come first. I assume that we all agree that accessible and affordable healthcare is the highest good in our society, and that is what the current crisis shows. The bill is a good thing. That is why we think it is important that it can be discussed. Potentially, it means at least EUR 58 million less expenditure for the patient. In addition, EUR 7 million will be added for the contraception for young women. This brings the total to 65 million in potential expenditure reduction for the patient. That is a good thing. We've had the discussion here about the clawback. Now, everyone must show solidarity. But solidarity must also be translated into action. We can also ask for a normal contribution of solidarity from the pharmaceutical sector. If he exceeds the pharmaceutical budget of the RIZIV, which needs to be set very precisely, he must be responsible and solidarity with doctors, nurses, hospitals, physicists, as in the other sectors. Besides, it's not about peanuts. According to the latest official figure, the budget was exceeded by no less than 351 million euros in 2018. Based on the preliminary figures, it will be less in 2019 while the Planning Bureau and the Monitoring Committee expect the budget to be exceeded by hundreds of millions of euros in the future. The sector must therefore show responsibility and solidarity. We have therefore asked for a compensatory levy to be imposed on the pharmaceutical sector. Everyone agrees that the generics sector, the biosimilars, has too small a market share in Belgium. It is slightly more than 20%, while in our neighbouring countries it is 60%, 70% to 80%. That sector therefore needs a push so that it can see its market share increased. But if the government's gonna push that in the back, he's gonna have to take responsibility, too. The push is that the generic medicines sector is exempt from the countervailing charge, the clawback if the budget is exceeded, if it is not responsible. Mrs Taquin, I must say that you are now using a discriminatory argument for the 'greater earners' in the pharmaceutical sector, whereas it is not for the small-earners. The generic sector, which is largely not responsible for budget overruns, now has to pay for it. Didn't the discrimination exist before? You are now turning the argument around, while the smaller players were already discriminated against. We want to increase the market share of the generic sector. A healthy market dynamic for the generics and the biosimilars is good, because then there will be more good and cheap medicines in Belgium, as in our neighbouring countries. We are all in favour of this by creating healthy market dynamics, at least in words, more room for innovative medicines, and that is what we need, for example, innovative medicines for immune therapies and cancer treatments. Then let's do it. The generic sector should absorb that glove by using the boost and gaining more market share, not hampered by previous measures. For these reasons, I believe that the text adopted in committee is a balanced proposal. In addition, I would like to take a leap towards monitoring the 2020 budget and future budgets. For me, the new legislative text is also a good run-up to a new pax pharmaceuticals, as I said in committee. We need a multiannual plan, a multiannual budget and multiannual agreements with the pharmaceutical sector in its various parts. There must be room for generic innovation and research, together with solidarity and responsibility for all. Ladies and gentlemen, you have all undoubtedly been bombarded with questions and comments from different parts of the pharmaceutical sector, but part of the pharmaceutical sector is prepared to shoulder its responsibilities and solidarity. Let me give you just one example, which is a credit to the person concerned, which is why I want to repeat it here. The largest Belgian in pharmaland, Mr Paul Stoffels of Johnson & Johnson, working at Janssens Pharmaceutica in Beerse, stated that, as a result of the search for a vaccine against the coronavirus, more cooperation and knowledge sharing are needed. Ladies and gentlemen, let us reach out to those who wish to accept solidarity and responsibility. Let us talk about knowledge sharing, to which the pharmaceutical sector is willing. In the context of pax pharmaceuticals, let us talk about a patent pool and production centres in Belgium or Europe. But with this draft law we must above all defend the interests of patients and above all do what the voters have elected us to do: put their interests first.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many things have already been said. As far as I am concerned, I would simply like to draw attention to certain points. First of all, we support the accountability of the pharmaceutical sector. Indeed, as a result of the savings imposed on the health care sector in recent years, all actors have made efforts to stay in the nails and respect their envelopes, with the exception of the pharmaceutical sector, which, for its part, has exceeded its own. It was the other health actors who trined to compensate for the overrun of this envelope. Madam Minister, you are pointing out that you do not, but you know as well as I do that this is the reality and that the clawback mechanism imposed on the pharmaceutical sector to hold it accountable is capped at 2.5%. Over and above this percentage, other health actors have had to compensate. However, in our country, the pharmaceutical sector occupies a strategic place both in terms of innovation and health and in terms of economics. The CDH wants to empower this sector while taking into account the challenge in terms of innovation. Indeed, for us, this aspect is fundamental. It was already yesterday, but it will be even more so tomorrow and the day after tomorrow with a pipeline of therapeutic innovations, and these innovations must be accessible to patients. We plead, as we have done in the past, for clauses for reasonable prices. The final point I would like to address here is that through this bill, it is not only the pharmaceutical sector that is affected, since section 3 of this bill provides for and imposes a savings of €48 million on hospitals in the full year. As you know, the financial situation of hospitals is particularly difficult today and for several years now. Patients and caregivers are then directly affected. Through the reduction of the budget of financial resources (BMF), you impose additional savings on hospitals. You're trying to justify it by saying that hospitals are going to take it back from the pharmaceutical sector. But obviously it is to forget that hospitals are subject to public procurement and that these public procurements cannot be unilaterally reviewed by hospitals. These public procurements also contain clauses that allow, or do not permit, the renegotiation of prices. Let us be very clear! In the current context, imagining for a single second that hospitals, big or smaller, will be able to impose, on their own, on each side, this economy on the pharmaceutical companies with which they negotiate, which can therefore supposedly recover this taxed savings of EUR 48 million in the BMF, is obviously impossible mission. The context today is even more specific than it was when we discussed this issue in the Health Committee. Today we are in the midst of a pandemic crisis of VOCID-19. Hospitals are suffering from this crisis. They mobilize as always, but also as never before. I find it particularly unacceptable, in the current context, to again undermine their funding when they have had to, and they have done so very willingly, to abolish all elective medical and paramedical activities in order to concentrate on emergencies and save lives. The current situation requires us all, I believe, to delete a clause from this bill, that is, clause 3. This article wants to impose this unacceptable economy, which is even more so in the current context, on hospitals, and therefore on patients and caregivers. This amendment has been tabled. I resubmitted it, because you know that the course of this text is somewhat...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u77	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u78	I think, Mr President, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u79	The minister may reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u80	Mr President, of course, but each one in turn. Otherwise it's a dialogue of the deaf. Minister, calm down! I went a step further, Madam Minister. I have decided to delete, by this amendment, a clause in your bill, which is clause 3. So this amendment will be tabled, Mr President. You know, it's not enough to applause caregivers every night. It is not enough, in the course of major speeches, to say how extraordinary everything that health professionals do in hospitals and elsewhere is! We must also take action. Of course, other actions will be taken, and that is a minimum. But this one, you can't miss it. I hope that our commitment to the fight against VOCID-19, but also to support all caregivers, will be realized. Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this commitment can be achieved by supporting this amendment, which will support all caregivers and patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u81	Mr President, this draft law on the health care budget for this year implies an additional saving on proprietary medicinal products, reducing the patient's user ticket by up to EUR 48 million. It provides for the reduction of the invoicing in hospitals of biological drugs for which there is a biosimilar alternative of 70%. This is a very heavy measure for hospitals that will probably have no chance of recovering this shortage from the pharmaceutical sector. It is for this reason and in the light of the crisis which is affecting us today that it seems to me important to be able to postpone this type of economic measures which penalise hospitals which lack more than ever revenue today, given the current suspension of surgical operations in particular and consultations. That is why I agreed to co-sign Amendment No 4 by Mrs Fonck. It does not prevent this bill, subject to the provision I have just mentioned, from providing positive measures that we must support. I am thinking here of the mechanism of the old drugs cliff, namely that if no generic biosimilar alternatives are available at the time of expiry of the patent, the basis of reimbursement will be reduced in three stages. This is also a new economic measure, except that it would have the effect this time of encouraging the development of alternatives that would be less costly. The draft law also provides for consolidated revisions which will lead to a price reduction of a total amount of €6 million in 2020. There is also the removal of the €5 security margin which is currently borne by the patient since this would have a mainly positive impact on the moderator ticket that I mentioned in my introduction. I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, after the vote in the Committee on Health, to support this bill, but also Amendment No. 4 by Mrs Fonck, because it is important today to be able to take account of the difficult financial situation in which hospitals were located, especially since the crisis which has affected us. I also invite you to begin, when the crisis is behind us – I hope as soon as possible – a reflection on a global structural reform that would aim at a genuine refinancing of our hospitals through which we stand up to the crisis of the coronavirus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a draft law that has already swam through a few waters. We have discussed it many times. It has also been discussed several times within the government, and also with the RIZIV working group. In the corona times in which we now live, we become more aware than ever that public health is a very important item and that keeping it available, bringing it, and being accessible medication is vital for our patients. One of the points we had in committee was timing. That point seems to me to be resolved. We must not go after the facts. I also mentioned it in committee: in March we would vote for a law that would enter into force on 1 April. In the meantime, the wholesalers have already reduced their prices. It's gonna have to be adjusted. This creates logistical problems for wholesalers, but also for pharmacists. That problem has now been solved. We can move forward now. It's a difficult exercise. We must seek harmony, a harmony that keeps our health care affordable but also ensures that we still have innovation and that this innovation comes to our patients. Hence, Mr Bertels, that N-VA does not participate in your idea of an innovation tax. That is what we said in committee. Colleagues have already mentioned it all, and we had to see how we could balance that huge amount of public money. The 161 million in the initial proposal was indeed made as an effort by the pharmaceutical sector. We agree with the fall in the prices of old medicines, but Mrs Fonck, not with your amendment on biological medicines. Your amendment is justified in the sense that our hospitals are moaning and they are doing everything they can to take care of our patients. However, I do not think we have the solution for our hospitals by going along with your amendment. Why not? We also heard it yesterday in the Health Committee. Hospital pharmacists can now build a stock of 48 hours. For medication too short, they have to order two days in advance. They're not sure they can take that medication to their patient. It's about medication that one needs for three weeks, once it's started. I think it's much more urgent to start looking for the medication for our patients and for extra staff for our hospitals. We're all at the core of ten. Mrs. Fonck, you're in there, too. I think we need to look much more closely at how we get out of here financially and how we will support hospitals financially after this period. It must be said, initially, that EUR 15 million was foreseen for the corona crisis. Thank God that has already been brought to EUR 1 billion in the interdepartmental commission. Those pennies will be needed. With an amendment to those biosimilars or biological medicines, we are not going to get there. What is a pain, as colleagues have already said, is that too few generic medicines are still prescribed. We also have a lot of biosimilars too short that are prescribed. That's a working point. This is what I consider to be balanced in the draft law. This Article 3 will ensure in the long term that our hospitals will also be able to negotiate more with the biosimilars. So that dynamic is really necessary. Colleagues, one important reason why we approve this draft today is the patient. The longer we slow down, the longer we argue, the more money this will cost the patient. It is just the patient who will no longer have to pay the five euro supplement, it is just the patient who will be able to get the contraceptive refund. It is our responsibility to continue with this and ensure that our patients will only be half a year by 2020; it was more like three-quarters of a year in 2020; and in 2021 they will be able to enjoy the benefits that this law brings to them. I have said it many times in the debate: we need a new pact for the future. I fully agree with the colleagues in the sp.a: the future pact is no longer working. The figures and the cost of innovation are rising too much. If we listen to the representatives of the RIZIV, that's true. We'll find out that the budget's just over there swinging out the window. Much more than discussing a clawback here, there is the need to organise a new future pact, indeed to discuss it in consultation and to look at performance, in order to effectively seek mechanisms with the pharmaceutical sector that allow us to provide access and affordability of new medication to our patients. It's the two of them. It's very easy to say: cheap, cheaper, cheapest. However, we must ensure that what our patients can obtain, what can be accessible to our patients, is affordable and that they can obtain it. We must have a negotiating position that is justified, so that we can ensure that our patients with cancer or with immune diseases or anything, can heal. We all do not want to be left behind. It is indeed a pharma valley, or whatever it is called, but we want our country to jump on the train of innovation. Above all, we want our patients to be able to enjoy this innovation. Mr Bertels, you already knew: N-VA will support the amendment of the MR. We did not initially vote in favour of the clawback mechanism of the sp.a. You say that there is an excess of 350 million, but the 4% on the pharmaceutical budget has not yet been achieved. If we now go to a new mechanism where there is a limit to 4%, we will also be able to obtain 300 million in efforts from the pharmaceutical sector. For the year and a half that comes, we can make progress with that. I therefore call on you to start immediately. We have been elected for a year now, and I think we were talking in July about the need for a new pact to be negotiated. I have another concern. We have talked a lot about COVID-19 here and about our patients who are now fighting for their lives in hospitals. Mr De Caluwé has already said that we will also have to support innovative therapies for COVID-19, but let it be the same that the list of medicines that are missing or very scarce are just as many medicines off patents. We must therefore launch a call from this hemisphere and discuss with the sector to what extent we can guarantee availability, that we have a good negotiating position to ensure that those vital medicines that now allow our patients to be on the ventilator can reach them. I'm thinking propofol. Let's be serious. Surely we are not going to inject veterinary medicine into our patients if we still have sufficient human medicines? I call on you to consider, if necessary, within the Group of Ten, whether measures can be taken to grant those medicines which are not currently authorised to be exported unless there is an approval from the FAGG to grant a separate regime so that our patients can have access to them and we can treat them for COVID-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u83	Mr. President, I won't be long. First of all, I salute the work of my colleagues, Barbara Creemers and Laurence H annoyance. I will make four remarks. We find it normal and logical that the drug sector should be responsible and contribute to the efforts that are to be made, especially since it seems to us that it has been rather, and not always logically, privileged in recent years. As the minister knows, there is therefore a positive a priori to this text. The big challenge we have is that the world has changed a little in the last few weeks in terms of public health and drug policy. This text was to enter into force on 1 April 2020 but could not be voted before that date following protests about the results of the work in the Health Committee. The majority did not like an amendment. The whole sector has been organised according to this date and, finally, a few weeks later, the text has still not been voted on. In addition, unfortunately, it is already a little overtaken by events, in particular on the issue of the capacity to provide sufficient quality medicines according to today's emergencies. The generic drug sector is also specifically affected by the health crisis we are experiencing. If we had had to analyse the text by knowing the circumstances that are ours today, we would have acted differently. Amendments have been tabled and we will support them. But perhaps it would have been wiser to put the work back on the job according to the new circumstances. This is of course also true of the impact of this bill on the hospital sector. Today he is experiencing a very high tension, being on the front line to help our fellow victims of the coronavirus. At the same time, a series of his usual activities are, for the time being, put to rest. It is also hoped that patients will not delay too much of the care that would have been needed and that this will not cause a negative rebound on what will happen in hospitals. Hospitals currently have an income problem because, under current hospital funding, funding depends on the volume of medical activities performed, which can be challenged. As a result, hospitals are now in potential financial difficulty. Minister, we have asked the government for specific measures to secure their funding in these particular circumstances. It is clear, in any case, that this measure would be in addition to the difficulties they are experiencing today. We can challenge – and this is the case with ecologists – the way hospitals are funded. Indeed, we do not believe that it is healthy to finance them on the basis of a volume of activities or medicines consumed, as this could lead to an over-consumption of medical acts and medicines. We believe that there is a need for more structural reform of this funding. In the meantime, it is difficult to add this anxiety to the stress already experienced by the institutions. That is why we will support the amendment to remove these savings measures for hospitals. Many amendments will have to be discussed. So the whole balance of the text can be changed according to the votes that will be cast in a few minutes. In short, we intend to support this text, because – as I said earlier – it proposes that the drug sector contribute more to the efforts to be made. However, if approved, it will need to be quickly evaluated and corrected to adapt to new public health circumstances following the Coronavirus crisis. If we are not able to resume or postpone the discussion, we will place the matter on the agenda of the Committee on Public Health in a few months' time, regardless of the outcome of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u84	Although they have already had the floor, I give the floor to colleagues De Caluwe and Bertels for a brief supplement. Mr Lachaert also asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u85	Mr President, some Members seem to forget that innovation also costs money. A lot of investment in research does not lead to a drug that can be marketed. Today, in the fight against the coronavirus, we all feel very well what the needs are. We now hope that this pharmaceutical sector will create a vaccine. They also invest a lot of money in this crisis. They man labs and provide staff to increase the number of tests. We are very much in favour of pax pharmaceuticals, but that is exactly what we are not doing today. Without consultation, an additional tax is imposed on one part of the sector in order to benefit another part of the sector. Pax means peace and peace comes after consultation, after giving and taking. That is exactly what is not being done here. One measure is taken but it refuses to see the enormous consequences for this industry, which invests in innovation of medicines, for those who today either have no hope of survival or suffer very badly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to make an appeal. Let us continue with this. Pharmacists and wholesalers have already had to adapt once, because we know very well what reason, and I know what the reasons were, but I do not think they have voted rationally on anything. On 1 April, pharmacists and wholesalers had to adjust their relevant prices. Don't do that to them twice. Secondly, Madam Minister, I assume that you are going to reply to this, but the availability or potential inaccessibility that might occur must be closely monitored. The FAGG is working on that. We know the decision tree. There is also a decision-making boom within the framework of the COVID medicines. We must monitor this and intervene very quickly if necessary. I had a discussion on this with Minister De Backer yesterday, but we have to do so on a daily basis, and we have to intervene if we need to. We cannot allow a number of vital medicines for ventilators to be used because this is often what we are talking about. Thirdly, we must find a solution for the hospitals. I said that in committee too. As far as hospital funding is concerned, we cannot currently impose an additional burden on hospitals, neither financially nor in relation to 'purchase procedures that would apply'. We must therefore find a solution to this problem. Fourthly and finally, I have heard the word innovation tax fall here. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a compensatory charge for exceeding a set budget objective: part of what has been spent too much has to be repaid a year later. Fortunately, the pharmaceutical sector is very strong in innovation with us. We support innovation in many other areas. We should not support innovation by making patients pay too much for medicines, but by research and development activities, taxation and so on. We all do, but let us not forget that now I am going to say a little harshly that much more money is being paid out to the shareholders of the pharmaceutical companies than money is being spent on innovation. So there's a margin on that. It cannot therefore be said that this is an innovation tax. That's violence to the truth. However, I call for this to continue and ensure, Mrs Depoorter, that the generic sector in our country gets a boost. There has been a lot of consultation on this. There is no one-sided breach, Mr De Caluwe. Each of us has had all the sectors covered in the past few months. There's been a lot of consultations. So it's not a one-sided fracture. I hope, however, that we can agree that the sector needs a boost. With the amendment that we tabled and which was approved in committee, we can do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u87	Mr President, I just want to add something. This bill has had a lot of ground to cover. There have been discussions between all kinds of Members, all of whom have also spoken today. Although we still have to wait and see how the votes will take place, there seems to be a majority in favour of resolving the text. You will also notice that several amendments have been tabled. We have Amendment No 1, together with Mr Piedboeuf. 10, on which Mr Bertels has tabled a sub-amendment No. 11 has tabled a motion for a resolution (Doc. However, there seems to be a consensus between different parties, in particular that, provided a slight adjustment of the sub-amendment, we can proceed with the text in a clean, tidy manner. However, the digital votes no longer allow us to amend the sub-amendment or to table another sub-amendment to that sub-amendment. So a number of the parties I have consulted would suggest to the hemisphere that the vote on this draft bill be postponed for a week in order to make a clean version of the text, with all the sub-amendments to be included, and then proceed to the votes. Should the draft be returned to committee, to make it beautiful and then put to the vote? If we adopt the amendments today, the text can only be finally adopted next week anyway. In my view, therefore, the best way is to return the draft law to committee, to put the text to the vote in plenary next week. This is a proposal that we would like to make after some consultation with some parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u88	There is a procedural proposal, and I would like to hold still for a moment. This can only be done if there is consensus. Mr Lachaert, you are actually proposing a change to the agenda. We have just approved the agenda. If, however, there is a consensus that, taking into account all the amendments and Mr Lachaert's concern, in particular that, if an amendment has been adopted, the vote on the whole cannot be postponed until next week in application of the Rules of Procedure, then I can do so. If there is a consensus, to 'update' the toilet stage, I naturally agree with that. In the meantime, seven additional amendments have been tabled, which means a rather cumbersome vote in the light of the voting procedure. The less we have to do this procedure, the better that will be for your President and for all Members. Mr Lachaert, you are making a proposal with great sense for consensus and common sense. I have to be objective. Can we live with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u89	Mr President, since I was not present at the informal discussions, I would have liked to know the content of the potential sub-amendment. After all, it is our right to know exactly what has been agreed between the various parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u90	Mr President, I agree with that, but I would like to send it briefly to the committee so that we can talk about the content there. We can therefore take the proposal on the COOVID medication and see how far we can get with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u91	Mr President, I would like to work constructively to find a consensus, as we did on Easter weekends. For us, however, it is important that there should be an exception for generics and biosimilars, as provided for in the amendment adopted by the committee. If there is a consensus on this, then we want to go along with it. However, I would like to assure the group leaders of the government parties that they will do the same because I do not want to go round for another week. I've been in circles all week and I'd like to hear it clearly now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u92	Mr President, I am very much in favour of Mr Bertels' last comment, which, together with other colleagues, has done important work in terms of content. From Mr Lachaert's speech it was more or less possible to conclude that this would be all right. We can therefore accept his proposal. It would be wise to go straight to committee, because if we bring this directly to the plenary next week and then adopt amendments here, it will have to come back again. The passage through the committee is therefore necessary in any case. This also gives everyone the opportunity to express their substance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u93	Mr President, we will reply to Mr Bertels that of course we will of course support his amendment on generic medicines. That seems clear to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u94	Mr President, I think it is Mr Lachaert's most sensible and practical proposal that instead of starting an amendment on an electronic basis, we should proceed through committee on a normal and logical basis. I'm sure I'd like to go along with that. I would also like to take this opportunity to inform Mr Lachaert that there are still constructive groups who show respect to consult with all democratically elected parties in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u95	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, having not been involved in the discussions, I do not know the scope of your agreements. Indeed, I imagine that I must understand, through what has just been said, that agreements have been reached between several parties. In any event, I do not know the scope of the modification of the clawback. I guess your agreements are about this. I don't know if you'll pay particular attention to hospitals. I would like to take this opportunity to respond to Mrs Depoorter. Madam, of course, it is not the deletion of Article 3 – I have never claimed – that will correct the catastrophic situation of hospitals. Indeed, the billion recently released for the latter will not be enough. I'll give you an appointment in two or three months. You'll see that this amount wasn't enough. This is a matter of principle. The Open Vld spoke about the Pax, earlier, to address the issue of consultation with the pharmaceutical sector. All the hospital federations in the country, even Zorgnet-Icuro – I say it and stress it – have been calling on the government since December. The government didn't even bother to answer them. The country's federations repeated the exercise a second, a third time. Minister, I have a copy of the letter they sent to you and I can ask the President to provide a copy of this copy to all members, if you wish. You didn't answer them. You didn't even bother talking to them. When it comes to consultation, it is not only a sector but also all the other sectors. On this point, I do not know your position. I have heard – and I would particularly like to thank them – several parties announce that they would support this amendment. I repeat that this is a matter of principle for me, not a correction of the financial situation, which will be catastrophic despite the billion that has been released. In this regard, questions remain. Mr President, if there is a chance to move this project forward so that it is more balanced both in the pharmaceutical and hospital aspects, I am prepared to join the proposal that has been made. I only regret that, in such a discussion, we must now realize that several parties have not been involved in this negotiation and in the deal that has clearly been concluded between a few. I'd like to say it. Everyone can give his or her opinion and express his or her choices. It is also respectable, and I would like to say so, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u96	Colleagues, you keep repeating yourself. [[Laughs]] A consensus was reached. It is reported that not all groups have been associated in the same way. The most transparent way to get this result is... but you don't know what I'm going to add, Mrs. Merckx, and you're already busy signing. It's like school. In short, I just wanted to point out that the most transparent way to shed light on this is to do it in committee. If you agree to refer the text back to committee to clean it up, it is even possible – since a Conference of Presidents will be held next week – to put it on next week's agenda. However, I do not want to anticipate that. I would now like to give everyone the floor so that everyone can say that he is angry, but it is the intention to reach a consensus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u97	Mr President, I have asked what the content of this famous toilet stage is and I have not received an answer. So I'm not going along with the consensus. One thing is clear: Mr Bertels' amendment is very clear, it wants to exempt the generic industry from a tax and the big pharma does not like it. Now certain parties would like to go along with that. I think it's rather suspicious to be toiletting the amendment. I shall then look in committee at what exactly is going on with the toilet stage, which is apparently necessary, because for me it was as ready as a whistle.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u98	Mrs Merckx, no one is asking you to go along with that today. In committee, you can determine your position. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u99	Mr President, I would like to clarify things a little. We had tabled an amendment to change the file and then there was a sub-amendment. The fact is that the sub-amendment must be clarified in relation to 2020 and in relation to 2021. Since it is not technically possible to amend our amendment but we agree with this development, we wanted this sub-amendment to be amended. The technical means that you have suggested is referral back to committee, where we can put things back to the point. As soon as the minister can speak on the subject and there is an agreement, it would be easier for this agreement to be supported by everyone rather than by some against others. This is part of a state of mind and we are committed to doing what we said we were going to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u100	Minister, after hearing these commitments, will you join the proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u101	Mr President, the text of this draft was tabled in the Chamber many months ago, in another era, the pre-corona era, with the aim of ensuring that our budget for health care for 2020 is correct. It was necessary to take some measures to compensate for the excess expenditure. In addition, it was interesting that some patients should spend EUR 57 million less. By successive delays, the patients concerned have already missed a quarter to half of that benefit, which I find regrettable, because the original measure made me happy. Indeed, the agreement to reduce the costs of these patients' brake charges was not easy. The text also included a system for the refund of contraception. I haven't waited for that part of the budget. It's the only thing that's already acquis in this draft, because I've already had that included in the RIZIV budget. That measure has therefore already been introduced, the only one. We don't need to talk about that part here anymore, because that doesn't require this design anymore, it's already been arranged. For the rest, I refer to the report, because I will not repeat what has already been said at the committee meeting. I have heard a number of new interventions here. A number of things need to be said. Mrs Depoorter, with the availability of medicines, people at the FAGG have been working day and night for weeks. This also applies to the EEA, since medicines are being sought all over the world, given, of course, the current higher consumption of certain medicines on the services intensive care and respiratory support. To this end, a Task Force Shortages was also set up, also led by Xavier De Cuyper of the FAGG, which includes people from the pharmaceutical industry, although they will have to take a different position through a back door. As far as hospitals are concerned, I also think we're living in a different world right now. Yeah, we've already given an extra billion. That amount will be paid directly into the hospitals' accounts. After all, when things have to go through BFM, it goes too slowly. The hospitals are now investing to create beds in the intensive care department to keep corona patients separate from non-corona patients, and to ensure that people with immunodeprivation do not come into contact with others. So we have already taken a measure of EUR 1 billion. But here was also a measure registered for a saving in hospitals. I think we could drop this if there was a consensus in the committee. So it is possible, but it is about a higher amount that we will have to give up. It will not go through Mrs Fonck's amendment because she wants to intervene in the B5 of the BFM. I've checked this three times, and it doesn't seem technically possible. I had the BFM changed for the bundled funding. The hospitalisation of low variable care is indeed a fact. The people I've consulted, they know a lot about these things. Maybe less than you, Mrs. Fonck, but they tell me the same from different sides. I am prepared to have as broad an amendment as possible drawn up by the people who want to join it, if we are going to deal with it in a committee. That's not how we're gonna burden the hospitals anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u102	In committee. I don't know why you're doing it here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u103	Mr President, that goes to committee, but I am allowed to say that. I'm sitting here for two hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u104	That may be, Madam Minister, but Parliament is asking for referral to committee. You may answer, but then everyone will ask for the floor again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u105	Okay, then we'll go to the committee, but I suggest it's the last time, because we're playing with the patients. Patients have long been waiting for those announced savings, for those cuts. And half of these cuts have already disappeared. That's just a fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u106	Then we'll continue the discussion, ma'am. (...)(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u107	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u108	There was a consensus on this. Either we continue the debate here and then we vote on the amendments, or we go to the committee and we strive for a consensus amendment. It's either one or the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u109	Mr President, I hope I can close it a little. Of course, I've started something now. The intention is not to postpone it for much longer. The commitment is very clear and that has also been discussed with the author of the sub-amendment. We are aiming for a vote next week. A committee to deal with everything, to make the text beautiful and to have a vote next week. I think we're still on time. So certainly no further delay, but make the text beautiful so that we can move forward. I would also like to apologize to the colleagues I have not involved, but this is due to the speed with which the agreement was reached between some parties. I have not succeeded in getting to everyone, but I suggest that we continue the debate in committee, if there is a consensus, and that next week it can pass in a short and comprehensive way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u110	Mr President, there is one thing. If our name is mentioned in the hemisphere, do we have the right to replicate? We all agreed to go to committee, but then the Minister still thinks it is necessary to throw arguments here in the hemisphere and name people. Madam Minister, it is the second time that you have sat at the table with the same parties, with the same stakeholders, and that you are made very clear afterwards by those stakeholders that your agreement is not so optimal. You seem to think it is necessary to have that discussion here and not in committee. I agreed to have that discussion in committee, but there was no need to repeat it here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u111	Mr President, I am replying to the minister, since she pointed at me directly. Minister, this amendment is technically extremely simple for hospitals. It deletes a clause from your bill. Let me be told that it is not technically feasible to delete a clause from the bill... I'm sorry, I can't follow you. Mr President, if I understand correctly, we will leave all this for the discussions in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u112	There is a consensus to refer the draft to committee. The Chair, Mr. Warmoes, will look for the most appropriate date. We will see, at the Conference of Presidents on Wednesday, what progress has been made in the discussions. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] No observations? [[No]] The draft No. 1005 will be returned to the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u113	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Catherine Fonck, Karin Jiroflée, Els Van Hoof.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u114	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mrs Hennuy and Mrs Creemers, who refer to the written report for their report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is sometimes said that one thing is fairly divided in the world, and that is common sense. Everyone believes that he has had enough, but in practice this does not always appear to be the case. That is why we have to vote today on a bill that is or should be superfluous. For the record, that is not a reproach to the proposers. That is not a reproach to Mrs Fonck, Mrs Jiroflée or Mrs Van Hoof. Smoking in the car with young people in the backseat or not, I sincerely ask myself who is trying to put the health of young people and often their own children at risk in this way. Even as a former smoker it never occurred to me to smoke in a too small room where children or young people are present, let alone that I would have come up with the idea of doing so in a car. Apparently, that logic didn't get through to everyone. Apparently not everyone is convinced that smoking is harmful to health. Apparently, some people are somehow convinced that young people are immune to the harmful effects of smoking. So common sense is apparently not as fairly divided as we originally thought. So, unfortunately, we need a law to regulate this, a law that should actually be superfluous but which apparently is not, a law that prohibits smoking in the car in front of young people. For the Flemish Interest, every step towards a smoke-free society is a good step. That is why I am pleased to announce that the Flemish interest will enthusiastically support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, vulnerable groups in society deserve protection and even more protection in these corona times. Hence the usefulness of this bill to protect minors from tobacco smoke in the car. Also passive smoking increases the risk of respiratory disease and perhaps the risk of developing a severe form of corona. Apart from the coronavirus, the negative effects of passive smoking are also serious, especially in the case of minors who, so to speak, smoke more frequently in the car. They include reduced lung function, increased risk of respiratory infection and increased risk of asthma. Smoking in the car in the presence of children also exposes them to concentrations of carcinogenic substances, much higher than in the home. In this small space the concentrations are 11 to 27 times higher. At the end of the previous legislature, an important law was passed prohibiting smoking in a closed vehicle in the presence of persons under 16 years of age. This law, of course, could be improved. Our group thought so at the time. We wanted to raise the age to 18 because 16 and 17-year-olds are also underage and can't drive by car themselves. There was also a lack of enforcement and control to make this law more effective and effective. I am therefore pleased that I have been able to work well with Mrs Fonck and Mrs Jiroflée in this area. Now, of course, we have raised the age from 16 to 18 years. This was done in consensus as we had already increased the age for tobacco purchases from 16 to 18 years in the previous legislature. I myself have tabled a number of amendments to ensure that this law is enforced. At regional level, several decrees had been adopted which did not facilitate enforcement by working through the environmental inspection. My amendments to clarify sanctions and control powers were adopted. Now the Public Health Office is responsible, especially the auditors of the Tobacco and Alcohol Control Service. They can carry out checks today and impose administrative fines in the event of infringements. There is little point in drafting a law if it cannot be checked. I have withdrawn another amendment, although it was supported by the majority of the committee members. With this, I wanted to give the inspectors access to the Vehicle Registration Office. In the event of a hit-and-run, inspectors must be able to determine who owns the car. However, I did not want to delay the present proposal, because when it comes to the Vehicle Registration Office, an opinion must be requested from the Data Protection Authority, which is why I have transposed my amendment into a legislative proposal. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will keep to your word and that this proposal, when it is discussed in committee, will be re-approved, hopefully with a positive opinion from the Data Protection Authority. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your cooperation on this issue. It is, of course, an important step towards a smoke-free and healthier society that we are seeking today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, on 20 February last, we voted in the Chamber for a total ban on tobacco advertising, because there were still a number of exceptions. In the previous legislature, the age limit for tobacco sales was raised from 16 to 18 years. We were one of the last countries in Europe to raise that age limit. This is, of course, very important, because we know that the younger people start smoking, the more that affects addiction and the harder it is to get rid of it later. The increase in the age limit to 18 years for smoking in cars is therefore a logical measure following all the other measures already taken, such as the ban on sales and the ban on smoking. The PVDA therefore strongly supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u118	Mr President, I would like to thank all the colleagues who will support this text. This is obviously one element among others. It is important to protect non-smokers, and especially to protect minors. It is known that the sensitivity of miners to the harmful effects of tobacco is much greater than that of adults. The impact of tobacco danger is clearly much higher among minors than among adults. It is therefore important to have mechanisms to protect the health of our minors. As my colleague said, we must all mobilize for future generations without tobacco. This element is one step among others. I hope that we will be able to continue to debate it and to take further action.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u119	Mr President, first of all, I want to thank the authors of this bill, which aims to protect minors from passive smoking. It is very important to adopt measures to protect the population from active smoking, including through awareness-raising, but we also need to be proactive in the fight against passive smoking. It is a public health issue to which we must be sensitive and which must push us to legislate as best we can. This bill is also intended to bring us into line with the ban on the sale of tobacco products to minors. The age at which this prohibition ceased was set at 18 years in the previous legislature. But it is also intended to bring us into line with another bill that we passed two months ago, which was aimed at a total ban on tobacco advertising at point-of-sale outlets. We are fully consistent in saying that we will support this bill. It's a vote that goes without saying. Let us stress that this law, like other laws dealing with the same subject and which we have voted for, will also have to be followed by the adoption by the next federal government – I appeal to all the parties present – of a genuine national anti-smoking plan that will have to be carried out in consultation with the federated entities, both in terms of its elaboration and in terms of its implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u120	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u121	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (683/9) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (683/9) The title has been amended by the committee to propose a law amending, with regard to the ban on smoking by car, the Act of 22 December 2009 on the protection of the population against tobacco smoke and the Act of 24 January 1977 on the protection of the health of consumers with regard to foodstuffs and other products." The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending the Law of 22 December 2009 on a regime for non-smoking places and for the protection of the population against tobacco smoke, and the Law of 24 January 1977 on the protection of the health of consumers in the field of foodstuffs and other products, as regards the ban on smoking in the car." The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u122	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u123	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Karin Jiroflée, Laurence Hennuy, Sophie Rohonyi, Kathleen Depoter, Eliane Tillieux, Barbara Creemers, Melissa Depraetere, Jan Bertels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u124	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mrs Merckx and Mrs Sneppe, who refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u125	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the Transparency Act, we are taking an important step on the pharmaceutical budget, which we have already discussed this afternoon. Articles 81 and 111 on medicines have come with the best intentions. One would negotiate and seek an optimal approach for patients in a small country together with the pharmaceutical sector. That was very noble and good. They started in the first year with a budget of 41 million, where we are now at 600 million. That is a third of the pharmaceutical budget and a huge amount. Parliament cannot control this either. I do not know any other department where it is possible for a Member of Parliament not to have access to such a large budget of public funds. We've noticed that especially this summer. We were pushed with the nose on the facts in Italy, I give the example of Lucentis and Avastin. They are two similar molecules that can be used for the same condition, age blindness, but the price difference is double. If Parliament is unable to examine whether there are possible agreements there, if we hear that things have gone wrong abroad and that there are convictions, then something is wrong. It is up to Parliament, when we feel or suspect that there is something wrong with the agreements, to have access to them. This is very difficult for the government: it refers to the contract, according to which it must not break confidentiality. With this bill, we are working on transparency. We have repeatedly mentioned it in committee: it is absolutely no longer a question of making such contracts impossible in the future. We are very much aware that innovation is very important and that accessibility is even more important for our patients. In a small country like ours, it is therefore important to look at and negotiate with the pharmaceutical companies, so that we get an optimal price for the medication for our patients. Can we get a bigger one? Yeah, you can. I just referred to it. We can still insert mechanisms like a pay for performance. We are talking about contracts that are being concluded. We believe that we should look at future contracts. I also know that some Members will suggest that it is very unfortunate that we cannot look at the past, but those contracts are already there. In that case, it is very important that we look at future contracts. Now Parliament will be able to effectively give a research mission to the Court of Auditors to determine whether the interests of our patients have been fully defended. That's what we want. It must be Parliament's starting point to ensure that our patients have maximum access to innovation and that we can all exercise control. After all, it's always about the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the development of innovative medicines to treat certain cancers or rare diseases is essential and even vital for patients. However, the cost of these drugs is exploding due to the costly state-of-the-art technologies that have developed them, but also due to the high profit margins required by the pharmaceutical industry. Their funding through social security has also become increasingly difficult, yet it would be unacceptable for patients who need it to have no access to it or to have more access to it tomorrow. This is seen in the drug budget, which has experienced a systematic slippage over the last five years, a budgetary overrun of EUR 1 billion, with one third of this overrun being reimbursed by the pharmaceutical industry and two thirds being absorbed by our health care budget. Thus, under the previous legislature, the use of confidential agreements (section 111, formerly section 81) between the Minister and pharmaceutical companies literally exploded. Established in 2010, the procedure for access to reimbursement of medicinal products, in parallel with the traditional procedure, should exceptionally make it possible to make an innovative medicine available to patients while certain uncertainties regarding its cost or effectiveness persisted. Today, 118 molecules, out of just over a thousand, are reimbursed through this type of contract. This represents more than 1.422 billion expenditures in 2018 out of a total of 4.890 billion. This represents about 30% of drug expenditures. The amounts of the rebates are the result of the excessive prices charged. In the absence of cooperation and transparency between States, the system mainly allows industry to maximize its profits by further strengthening the asymmetry of information between it and the various public authorities. Recently, the KCE, a federal centre of expertise, has developed a series of avenues to improve the system of agreements and to place more emphasis on the benefit for the patient and especially on the long-term sustainability of health insurance. For our group, the proposal we have co-signed will, when the Court of Auditors receives a request for a specific inquiry concerning one of these contracts, make it possible to have wider access to information on these agreements. Another issue that this raises is confidentiality. This will be preserved, since the Court of Auditors has already planned to take internal measures to this end. It also stated that reports on the results of investigations will be formulated in such a way that no third party can deduct confidential information from them, either directly or indirectly. For our group, these conventions must also be able to be examined more closely. We must be able to ensure that they are necessary and compatible with the objectives pursued when establishing this system. We should also be able to base our judgment in order to change and adapt our legislation in this context if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u127	Mr President, before us is a legislative proposal aimed at greater transparency with regard to the so-called Article 81 contracts. These are innovative medicines, the price of which was negotiated secretly between the Minister for Health and the pharmaceutical industry. As an exception, they were usually the rule. Nowadays, there are over 180 secret contracts. That was not the intention, and it can never be the intention. The Flemish interest is therefore for this proposal, but not without some comment. We therefore hope that the patient will continue to have access to innovative medicines, even if the pharmaceutical industry has to commit itself. We have therefore tabled an amendment to ensure that companies continue to market innovative medicines. If they were to disappear, many patients and their families would be left to their own devices, and we do not want that. The Flemish interest believes that a Band-Aid is again placed on the wound, instead of completely cleaning the wound. It is, of course, a start, but in fact this bill should be part of a complete review of the procedure for marketing and pricing medicinal products. This review should be carried out in consultation with the various actors, but always with the patient in mind. The Flemish Interest is prepared to participate in this process and to put worthy proposals on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is about the 'Article 81 Conventions', which have been criticized by some but which give access to innovative medicines quickly for patients who cannot wait. The operative part of the proposal provides for access to all the documents of the conventions, including the confidential annexes, which refer to the reimbursement of these medicinal products whose therapeutic effectiveness has not yet been proven but which are nevertheless to be made available to patients. We will vote on this proposal because amendments have been made to it in an indispensable way in the course of our work in committee. It was necessary for confidentiality guarantees to be maintained in the context of this new access for the Court of Auditors, as it was essential to ensure that the conventions already in force and which gave access to medicinal products were not called into question. This will allow for greater access to information, while preserving confidential elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u129	Colleagues, this bill is effectively about the secret contracts that have been introduced more and more in recent years, so we do not know how much is actually being paid for a medicine. These contracts were originally intended as an exception to make innovative medicines accessible to patients, but today we see that it is no longer only happening under those conditions. Let me give you the example of Xarelto. It's a known medicine to dilute blood. This has been repaid since 2009 and is therefore difficult to look at as an innovative medicine ten years later. However, it is still under contract. Another example is Sovaldi, a very well-known antiviral agent for Hepatitis C. It's been under contract in our country for years. We do not know the exact price, but we know that it is about several tens of thousands of euros per treatment, while we also know that this medicine is produced in India for 100 euros per box. The monitoring report therefore shows that under Mrs De Block's policy, the secret budget for medicinal products has increased to almost 30%. It was 18 percent in 2016. There's been a huge increase in secret contracts. More than 118 drugs are under contract. The criticism of these contracts is therefore very extensive, including from the Knowledge Centre, which also studied this in 2017 and indicated a number of slopes to change the system. It was therefore made clear that these secret agreements are particularly beneficial to the pharmaceutical sector and that patients are increasingly burdened. The pharmaceutical industry is, of course, very eager, as no one knows exactly how much the taxpayer is paying for the medicines. This legislative proposal is therefore a step forward, because in some way there can be an indirect understanding of future contracts. I therefore hope that this legislative proposal will be able to limit this practice. I would also like to come back to this bill. In October 2019 a big headline appeared in Het Laatste Nieuws: "Farma companies grab half a billion euros from social security and the government is watching." This is about the scandal with Avastin and Lucentis. It concerns a long-standing problem in which two molecules can be used for eye medication, one of which is much more expensive than the other. Those practices of false competition have been condemned in Italy. Countries such as the United Kingdom and the Netherlands therefore decide to allow the cheap medicine on the market, so that the treatment can be carried out in a much cheaper way. In Belgium, however, we cannot find out the details, since this EUR 500 million is calculated indirectly. The next day, the newspaper Het Laatste Nieuws titled: "Secret deal comes out handy." The problem is that the official price of a Lucentis syringe is 650 euros, while the cheap medicine costs only 50 euros. However, we do not know how much we really pay for Lucentis. Minister De Block is hiding behind the secrecy of the deals. However, we know that the reduction is on average about 25%, so we can assume that a syringe of Lucentis may only be EUR 480. It is not clear from the MORSE reports that only EUR 50 would be paid for. We don't know. And effectively, at the end of the month I open the newspaper again, this time De Standaard: "Sp.a. and N-VA beating hands against the dark pharmaceutical deals." That's how this bill gets on the table. The bill is inspired by the problems of Lucentis versus Avastin, for example. It is said that we cannot really know whether or not the deal with Lucentis is a scandal. It is clearly a scandal, but we still do not know exactly how much we pay for medicines from secret deals. The purpose of this bill is to find out how much we really pay as taxpayers. The bill was discussed several times in committee. Advice was also sought from the Council of State. I would like to dwell on this point, since this Chamber always considers the opinion of the Council of State to be very important. Well, in this case, the opinion of the Council of State is very clear. The Council of State states that we have the right of access to both current and future contracts, but the Council of State is very cautious in making that opinion: we should not look at these contracts directly but order them to the Court of Auditors, which can calculate how much money was paid. Our right of access is therefore quite indirect and somewhat protected. Further discussions in the Chamber show, however, that the principle of access rights is acceptable. That is nothing more than a clarification of what is already in the law. I still do not understand today, colleagues from sp.a. and N-VA, why, despite a large majority in this hemisphere and the positive opinion of the Council of State, you have nevertheless admitted and made sure that one can only look into future contracts and not into the contracts that are currently under way. These are contracts that weigh 30% on our budget. We really need to find out whether they still have to hold or not. I can only conclude that you are also plodding for the big lobbying machine of the big pharma, because they have waved with processes. What exactly are they hiding from us? Why will we not be able to look into the contracts that are still in progress today?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u130	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you have heard, these Article 81 contracts really do appeal to the imagination. Very bright, in some of them. People like to look at the expensive price of medicines. Of course there's something to be said for that. We certainly need to look for formulas to keep prices for medicines affordable. What exactly are these so-called secret pharmaceutical deals? This actually comes about in a working group, which also includes the mutualities. I think they represent the patients in this. They negotiate with pharmaceutical companies to market new products. There are discounts, among other things, but also other things. A pharmaceutical company that gives a discount to Belgium for a new medicine does not want the whole world to know what discount is being given in Belgium. If one were to allow this, what would be the result? That is that our country will always be the last in line when it comes to accessing innovative medicines. Patients will be ill longer and will have to wait longer for a life-saving medicine. Nor do we look at the added value of these medicines. It is forgotten that these medicines often save lives. Mrs Merckx, you regret that the agreements currently in force are not covered by this bill. It seems obvious to me that they fall out there. That is also something for which Open Vld has strongly advocated. We are also pleased that this has come about. During the game one cannot change the rules of the game. If Belgium were to do so, it would break the agreement with the pharmaceutical companies and then they could immediately withdraw their medicines from the Belgian market. Then you will probably question Minister De Block about the shame that certain producers remove access to certain innovative medicines from our country. We have said from the outset that we agree to an additional check on these contracts, but provided that confidentiality can be somewhat guaranteed. This secrecy has been confirmed on several occasions, but I would like, as in committee, to emphasise the comment of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors states that it realizes that it will have to be very careful in its reports to avoid that the data it mentions in its reports, perhaps in conjunction with other sources, could violate the confidentiality rules. It has also warned that some questions may therefore not be answered by the authors of the present proposal. So we are really facing a test, and if that test fails, it will not be without consequences. Patients with, for example, a life-threatening or rare condition will be the victims of this, but we have confidence in the Court of Auditors and that is why we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u131	Mr President, I have no doubt that the Court of Auditors has experts. On the other hand, it stated that it did not necessarily have the power to examine such a convention. We will vote for this text, although we remain convinced that the Reimbursement Commission for Medicines is the most able actor to assess the relevance of Article 81, thanks to its mastery and knowledge of the whole innovation aspect and the issues related to the optimal use of the health care budget. However, that Commission is already in place. Although it is aware of the content of these famous conventions ex-Article 81, it is clearly not in a position to influence the choices that have been formed. That is why we propose to strengthen the role of this body so that it can demonstrate its expertise in a more sustained way and assume its role more effectively. In addition, I will send a letter to the chairman of the Committee on Public Health. Given that our energy is mobilized by the fight against VOCID-19, I know that it will not be in the immediate future, but my objective is that we can hear from the House the Committee on Reimbursement of Medicines.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u132	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly pleased today to support this text as I was pleased to co-sign it. I would like to thank Mrs Jiroflée for her initiative, which certainly represents a further step towards better access to medicines. This is a particularly important issue at the time of the health crisis that we are going through. On several occasions, INAMI has denounced these well-known "Article 81" conventions, which include uncertainties about the target group, the true clinical effectiveness of medicines, and their budgetary impact. According to Test Purchases, pharmaceutical companies tend to set tariffs that are always higher for their drugs. Innovative cancer treatments, for example, alone now cost four times more than ten years ago. The question is whether it is because of the cost of research and development. This is not necessarily the case since research is also financed by public money through a series of tax advantages, so that the patient eventually pays his medicines twice: once at the pharmacy and once through his taxes. On the other hand, it appears that publicly funded research is not always useful. Indeed, of the nonante-two drugs that appeared in 2017, only ten would have a real added value compared to what already existed. A slight change without real added value would therefore be sufficient to be recognized as innovative. Because firms do not necessarily share their data, similar research would be carried out simultaneously in the same areas, with the result that the costs to be avoided will increase. KCE and its Dutch counterpart ZIN have developed four scenarios to exit the current system. We favour public-private partnerships based on binding public procurement, specifying the needs that need to be met and the expected requirements for public aid and specifying the conditions for access, all in the most transparent way. This new model should gradually replace secret conventions, starting with unmet needs. To this end, a cadastre should be available for diseases for which a lack of medication is actually found. This cadastre would be constantly updated. We also believe that solidarity must be built between the Member States of the European Union. At present, each state negotiates individually with firms, which puts firms in a position of strength. I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons, to support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u133	Mr Bertels, you have the last word on behalf of the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u134	Mr President, as the last speaker, I would like to thank Members for their constructive cooperation in committee. Our proposal, on which we took the previous hearings and the critical remarks made in Parliament and the reports from the Centre of Knowledge, was developed constructively in committee and was therefore able to count on the approval of the vast majority of its members. Mr President, I will not repeat everything; it does not make much sense. It is important that there is transparency, where necessary. For one third of the budget for medicinal products, we must be able to take note of the agreements, especially given that some contracts are concluded for several years and are often renewed. At the same time, we retain Article 81/111 agreements. There will be transparency through the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has given a very respectful answer in its double opinion. We must not therefore make any accusations against the Court of Auditors. Mr De Caluwe is now gone, because it will carry out his task in a serene, correct and respectful manner. The Court of Auditors should be able to control, including the'secret annex', but with respect for the confidentiality of the data. That goes without saying. Contracts for innovative medicines, which we have talked about very frequently, remain possible. However, they must remain the exception and not make up 30% of the pharmaceutical budget. I will answer a number of questions immediately. I, together with Mrs Depoorter and Mrs Jiroflée, am the main proposer of the proposal. Following various opinions, including from the Council of State, the RIZIV, the Court of Auditors and the Court of Justice's legal services, we have opted for a legally workable and certain solution in order to avoid unnecessary disputes subsequently, which undermine the system. Therefore, the provisions apply to future contracts. If not, there could be a discussion about civil liability. We have tried to avoid that. Have we given in to the big pharma, as Mrs Merckx describes it? No. As far as I am concerned, it is a major step forward that we now have a legislative text at our disposal, which offers legal certainty and cannot be undermined by the symbolic approach to problems of the past. Would we have wanted to deal with old contracts? Yeah, but let's not run any legal risks. Furthermore, the Court of Auditors has expressly stated that it will carry out that task and we have no doubt that it will do so correctly. Finally, we have agreed to make the exercise on the composition of the cost of a medicine, so that it can now be extended very widely. Mrs Fonck, we will have to take into account not only the work of the Committee on Medicinal Products at the RIZIV, which lays down the conditions for reimbursement, but also those of the Committee on Economic Affairs, which determines the price of a medicinal product, which is important for the pharmaceutical industry, inter alia, for export abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u135	Mr President, I would like to repeat for a moment, because I was mentioned by Mr De Caluwe, who led me to have a great imagination when it comes to contracts. Well, when I say that Sofosbuvir costs tens of thousands of euros in Belgium, while it costs only 100 euros in India, that is not imagined, but that is a fact; that is proven in black and white. When I say that Xarelto has been on the market for ten years and is therefore no longer an innovative medicine, I do not imagine that, but that is the reality. It is argued here that one cannot change the rules of the game while one is playing, but I think all the players will stay at the table and some will not exchange cards in a back room. That's what's gonna happen today. Mr Bertels, you said that you did not want to take any legal risks and therefore limited the provisions to future contracts. But sometimes taking legal risks can help the cause. Let me give you the example of Nelson Mandela in the 1990s. How did we manage to make the drugs for HIV available to millions of people in the 1990s? That was done by a legal battle initiated by Nelson Mandela. Sometimes one can take a calculated legal risk. I think we could count on the support of the people if the pharmaceutical industry tried to bring us to trial because we wanted to know how much we were paying. Take the risk and then we can reduce the price of medicines and make them more available to patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u136	Mrs Merckx, I don't like being disqualified in that game, especially not on the hood of the patients taking Xarelto, to which you refer. 118 molecules are currently under contract. 118 times as many patients take that medicine. Better than anyone else in the room, you know that people are playing with the patient's life if they take away the medicine Xarelto. We won't! We have here a pact for the future, on the basis of which we can take note of future contracts. You asked a number of questions, including to my group. Can there be improvements to the system? Of course. However, we have done our job as a Member of Parliament. I can understand that it would be very interesting for you and for me and for certain members of the Health Committee to examine the substance of the reimbursement for certain medicines. However, we will not interpret scientifically as a Member of Parliament; the task of interpreting scientifically belongs to the doctors, the members of the committee. We check whether there are anomalies, whether wrong prices are being charged, whether agreements are being made between different firms. Above all, we ensure that our patients have medication available. That's the message.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u137	Mr President, I do it with one sentence: the most important thing is that we have had constructive cooperation and that we have achieved a good result. I do not do symbolic politics, but I do want to achieve results on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u138	Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u139	Mr President, I shall be brief. Much has been said about this. Everyone is in favour of transparency. That's actually the word of the day. I still want to say something about what a secret contract is exactly. The secret contract was created by my predecessor, Mrs Onkelinx, because this was done in all other countries in order to give access to innovative medicines, medicines for which no agreement was reached through the Committee on Medication Medicines, either because there was not enough evidence, or because it was too expensive. I always said that was a good initiative from my predecessor. We didn't agree on everything, but we did. So that was a good thing. When can a secret contract be negotiated? Can a minister just say that he or she wants to negotiate a secret contract for a particular medicine on the market? No, you can't. It must always go through the Commission on Medicines. It is only when an agreement is reached in the Committee on Medicinal Products, in which the mutualities are present, a representative of the pharmaceutical industry, a representative of the Minister for Economic Affairs, a representative of me and also a representative of the Minister for Budget, three members of the government are therefore represented and, of course, the RIZIV, that a secret contract is drawn up, of course, with enormous price reductions. That's a two-part contract. It contains, on the one hand, a part of the scientific package leaflet, for which the medicine serves, its safety and so on. On the other hand, a confidential clause describing the price reductions and the conditions. Here the confidentiality of the negotiators must be safeguarded. I have been asked several times to lift this confidentiality, but I did not want to do so. I am pleased to note that all the mutualities and all the people sitting there at the table, who have not blown up confidentiality, in the interests of the patient, to have access to this kind of medication. Otherwise we will no longer be able to give our people access and there are many indications. In fact, that has become more and more because many new medicines for orphan diseases have also come for which we have done a whole catching-up operation. We have given more than 20 new medicines to the patient. There have also been whole new classes of medication, such as CAR-T and immunological medicines. We wanted to break open these contracts with retroactive effect and put this confidentiality on the front page of the newspapers. That was not possible because one cannot just break open a contract with confidentiality. I suppose many doctors think they can, but there are plenty of lawyers who say that this is not possible. Now this task has been entrusted to the Court of Auditors. That was possible before, because when it comes to public money, the Court of Auditors can always draw up contracts. However, I am very confident. The Court of Auditors will have to collect expertise and carry out the necessary checks. The Court of Auditors, like the Council of State, says that confidentiality is guaranteed. So that confidentiality will also be there with them. They will therefore not be able to reveal their findings and conclusions as confidentiality is guaranteed. This reassures me because this will continue to give our patients access to innovative medicines in the future. There was also a small discussion here about other mechanisms of pricing. This exercise is ongoing in all countries and it can also be continued here. We do not yet have a whole pallet of measures in this area. We have entered pay for performance and we have already moved beacons but for these contracts we have not yet found any other solution. This has not yet been done in the other countries. Colleagues, I will leave it at that. I wish you a pleasant vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u140	Thank you for your condolences. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u141	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (723/9) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (723/9) The title has been amended by the committee to "proposal for a law amending legislative provisions with regard to the transparency of agreements on reimbursable specialities". The title was changed by the Committee to "draft legislation amending legal provisions as regards the transparency of the agreements on refundable specialities." The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u142	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u143	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Vanessa Matz.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u144	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Ms Zanchetta and Mr Aouasti, who refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u145	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a good thing that the proposal to combat the non-concensual spread of sexually tinted images and recordings is before the vote today. It's a mouthful. The title has already been changed, because in popular terms people speak of revenge porn. Although there were a lot of legal problems at the outset, they were well discussed in committee and we have come up with a proposal signed by the majority of the parties. It has become a widely supported proposal. That is a good thing, especially for this subject. I would also like to thank Mrs Matz for her constructive attitude and cooperation. For our party, the need to protect victims of this phenomenon of revenge porn is very important. The youthful insanity with regard to sexting is also very common today, due to the rise of social media. That is also why we supported this bill from the outset. The impact is enormous. If we know that 50% of the victims later have suicidal tendencies, that the particularly young victims do not dare to complain out of shame, that an image can continue to circulate on the Internet forever if it is not removed within six hours and therefore also weighs on the victims, it is really crucial that we vote today on this bill to protect especially very young victims, especially girls. This bill protects the victims in different ways. CD&V considers a number of things very important. Firstly, the penalties are increased when images are distributed with malicious intent and for profit. Secondly, when minors are involved, which is often the case, heavier penalties can be imposed. Thirdly and most importantly, the provision is built into the presumption that the images were distributed without consent. In addition, the proposal also provides for these images to be taken offline as soon as possible. To this end, a special procedure has been developed in the context of the interim proceedings. The distributors and intermediaries are also encouraged to take the images offline. I would like to make a comment. Large providers and social media such as Twitter and Facebook often take the burden of proof offline themselves when they determine such facts themselves, even before something happens. This means, however, that the burden of proof is no longer available. I have therefore drawn up a resolution calling for agreements to be reached at European level so that the providers make the burden of proof available to the public. This seems to me to be an important element in the story, which is not included in the present legislative proposal. Finally, this bill also aims to support victims by allowing the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men in Justice to act. Many victims are ashamed or dare not go to court themselves. When the Institute for Equality between Women and Men can do so in their place, that is a heartfelt thing. Colleagues, I am convinced that this has sufficiently underlined the added value of this legislative proposal. Thank you for your cooperation. Of course CD&V will approve this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u146	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to repeat what Mrs Van Hoof said about the legislative proposal. We are very pleased that a consensus was reached on this matter across party boundaries. The malicious spreading of those images can have very serious consequences. We've already hammered the minors. It is also about images that were made in long relationships and after the relationship are made public to take revenge, to harm others. These are things that can lead to enormous consequences. I am glad that this is finally being reduced. I would like to comment on the work in committee. Amendments and sub-amendments were tabled and discussed, on 6 February, on 14 February, on 20 February. A coordinated text was therefore proposed. Amendments and sub-amendments were tabled at the vote on 10 March. At that time, the Flemish Interest abstained because it just became a cacophony. It was no longer visible which text was before it. That was unworkable and extremely difficult. A coordinated text would have been better at that time, but that does not mean that we have worked on this legislative proposal and submitted a number of sub-amendments. This was largely taken into account, for which thanks. We will, of course, support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u147	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at a time of constant, constant social media exchanges, we rely more than anything on our interlocutor to respect our privacy. Revenge porn is a practice whereby sexually explicit content is made public, often through revenge and especially through social networks, without the consent of the person concerned. The dissemination of these images is indeed an act of violence, multiplied by the fact that once the machine is launched through social media, it is difficult to stop it. In April 2018, the TV channel VTM broadcast a report with journalists who had discovered, on a forum, several thousand intimate photos and videos broadcast without any consent. We do not want to minimize the magnitude of this cyberviolence and its toxic consequences on the lives of victims, all the more so when this cyberviolence is of a sexual nature. While the victim is often blamed for the dissemination of images that reveal to the world a part of his intimate life, the PTB, with this bill, wants to reposition the author as the sole person responsible for his actions and wants to actively combat the perpetration of sexual violence against women and their continuation. Indeed, we find with fear that once again, it is women who are the first victims of sexual violence online. We once again denounce the domination in our society of patriarchal norms that impose specific roles on each one. In particular, we note that women are subject to specific norms and expectations related to their sexuality. It is this stigma that women experience as a result of the dissemination of these images. We reject this stigmatization, which prevents them from being recognized for what they are, namely only victims. We know that because of confinement, violence against women is now on the rise. Céline Caudron, the National Coordinator of Women's Life, already highlighted this fact on April 1st. I quote: "We know that violence will increase and intensify. With confinement, stress will rise, tensions will come, and the passage will be faster towards sexual or physical violence, even deadly violence." That is why, for the PTB, providing prompt and effective access to justice is essential for women who are victims of violence. We stress the importance of allowing judges to order, as a matter of extreme urgency, the removal of the intimate images in question. In cases of revenge porn, we note that because of sexist stereotypes, the victim often has to manage alone in the face of a real combatant's journey in an attempt to have these contents removed. Last month, Amnesty International again issued a report confirming the ubiquitous nature of gender-based thinking, which wrongly blames women for their aggression. In Belgium, one in two men believe that a victim may be partly responsible for the sexual violence she suffers. This response, in addition to being totally false, is extremely worrying. That's not all. One third of young people interviewed by Amnesty believe it is normal to insist on having sex. These factors shape the meaning and representation of consent and will facilitate the use of renenge porn by the perpetrators of such violence. That is why we argue that this bill must be associated with major prevention and awareness campaigns on the concept of consent, as well as with a substantial and substantial strengthening of the education programme for relational, emotional and sexual life. Consent cannot be assumed or extended. Consent must be required for all stages of the relationship. Consent must be clear and unequivocal. The victim is never responsible for the violence suffered. We wanted to remind him. However, the finding is undeniable and alarming. The prevalence of sexual violence is increasing. This is a testament to the urgency that we have already raised in this House on several occasions. More than ever, women need an action plan against violence that is specifically targeted, ambitious, realistic, binding and budgeted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u148	Mr President, before speaking briefly on the substance of the text, since the report is complete, I wanted to point out something that is not necessarily usual in this House. This is the work that has been done by my colleague Mrs Matz to bring this bill to fruition, and the extremely constructive and collaborative nature of the work carried out in committee. It was important to arrive at a text that makes so much consensus today, and that can govern a social imperative that is now to be implemented. I wanted to thank Mrs Matz and my colleague for the work that has been done in committee. Beyond that, we are intervening in a matter which, unfortunately, has been developing since the emergence of this digital society. Apart from this question, there is the question of consent, which I will not even talk about, but which is elementary and natural in any relationship. But even when there is consent in some relationships, and in some sexual relationships, it can be seen that after the end of a relationship, there may be no consent about the images that were taken with the person's initial consent, and their dissemination. It may be a little complicated, but it is really the very meaning of this project. Indeed, we are not just talking about unconscionable sex, which is a criminal offence, and which is a horror, but about what can be done after, even within an agreed framework, of these images. Unfortunately, it is again women who are the main victims of this non-consensual dissemination of images. The purpose of this bill was to suppress this non-consensual dissemination of images which still too often affects women, and also minors, and to punish them even more heavily when the person acts with a lucrative purpose and a wicked intention. This bill of a few articles, which may seem annoyed or innocent, is intended to govern a phenomenon of society that is growing in scale. I had the opportunity to discuss this with some of the authorities that have conducted an experiment. They went to high school classes and asked the students who had experienced sexting – we all know what sexting is – and 100% of the students in the class raised their hands. This means that there is a phenomenon of society relating to this sexting, to this diffusion and that seems normal. This seems all the more normal given that, unfortunately, the woman or young girl who is the victim is considered to be the person responsible for this sexting, since she herself would have shown herself in distorted photographs. It's intolerable! This proposal goes beyond the necessary preventive aspect which must be done in each school and in partnership with other federated entities, in particular the French Community and the Flemish Community. Today it is a clear message that, if the preventive aspect does not work, there will be the repressive aspect. It is therefore this repressive aspect that we will have to vote in a few minutes or a few hours. I don't know how long the debates will last.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u149	It depends on all of you!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u150	Mr President, I will be brief. Although it is short, this bill is important. I hope it won't have to be applied. We always vote on this type of bill with the hope that it will never be implemented because, if it is, it is that a social misfortune has been committed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u151	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is, of course, in a very particular context that we now have to vote for an important text which has been under intense discussion for months. It may seem derisory in view of what everyone has been living for weeks, but the phenomenon of the dissemination of images with a sexual connotation without the consent of the persons concerned also unfortunately causes victims. These victims are traumatized for life by shame, gnawed by guilt. They shut up and endure, cut off from all social contacts. Harassed, they are sometimes pushed to suicide. As we know, 90 per cent of women are affected by this phenomenon. It is an insidious, sneaky violence that feeds on the publicity of its authors, cowards, sometimes under cover of anonymity; amplified by social networks always eager for sensationalism, shocking and degrading images. We had to act to protect vulnerable people, often young people, and prevent these degrading images from turning around the web. We had to act to remind ourselves that it is an offence to engage, with or without a wicked intention, with or without economic interest, in this type of dissemination and sharing. The task was not easy and we have, as hearings progress, worked together in committee, produced two legal formulas which can ensure that these ignoble acts will not be left unanswered. Unlike other European states, we wanted to choose the judicial route, which seemed to us to be the most respectful of every interest in the matter. That of an urgent stay, referred to as a hotel, which allows the court of first instance to bring the matter to an end within six hours; or that of the King's prosecutor, already competent for terrorist propaganda or child pornography, to use all appropriate means to prevent such dissemination. That is what the victims expected of us: that the images which seriously harm them should be removed as soon as possible. To do this, justice will, I am sure, be able to count on the help not only of the broadcasting platforms, but also of the operators who, from the very beginning, have sought with us the most practical and effective solutions possible. In this connection, I must recall what I have stated several times in committee, namely that the responsibility for withdrawal is in cascade, and that it is the broadcaster who will be in the first instance responsible for withdrawal, since it is he who publishes the content. Then the operator will come who will only have to intervene in the event that the diffuser does not run. From a technical point of view, the operator cannot hide only an image or video, but the entire site. Each stakeholder will also have to receive all the technical data to be able to respond to the court's injunctions within six hours and use all appropriate means to that end. Victims who are silent, often out of shame and because they feel there is no point in denouncing on the grounds that nothing would be done to help them, must know that we wanted to offer them a real tool to prevent the circulation of degrading images, because we hope that the perpetrators of such acts will not go unpunished – especially if they have acted maliciously or with a lucrative purpose. I often remind these victims that giving their consent to take photos or videos in the context of privacy does not imply that they have given their consent for their distribution. It is also important to stress that a minor will never be expected to have given such an agreement. Before concluding, I would like to thank the colleagues who have contributed constructively to the improvement of the text, the collaborators, but also the services of the House who have produced various documents corrected and translated in record time. Thanks to them, we are leading to a text that will protect the victims and give them a little more dignity. Adolescents, parents, victims, police services, justice, platforms, operators, public services, politics, we must walk in the same direction. I am talking about preventing the spread of hatred, contempt, harassment and disrespect that these magnificent tools of sharing, social ties and contacts between us can generate – as we still see today. It is our duty to work on several axes in order to remove all forms of cyber-harassment and cyber-haine from the field of real and virtual life. By asking for your vote on this text, we open the scope of the possibilities of internet and social networks control as well as the preservation of freedom, with as a corollary the respect of the fundamental rights of each and everyone. By voting on this proposal tonight, we are moving towards a more humanized society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u152	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, young people as well as young people, women as well as men are now exposed to their sexual intimacy without their knowledge on the Internet, in the eyes of the general public, but also of their loved ones, their companions, their class friends or their colleagues. These images taken in the context of a relationship of trust with his partner then become a real nightmare that can prove perfectly destructive or even fatal to the victim. Indeed, 50 per cent of victims had suicidal thoughts after the images were released. There are also parents who deny their daughter. The victim no longer wants to go to school because she no longer has to face the gaze, the mockery, the insults, the threats that are also continuing on social networks. The mental, emotional, social, educational, professional and even physical damage caused by the dissemination and recording of these images of a sexual nature without the consent of the person concerned on the Internet is now such that they deserve a response commensurate with their gravity in our Penal Code. It is the role of the latter to express what is reprehensible in our society. This role must now take into account the growth and impact of social networks. The confinement and social distancing that we know today has also strengthened the role of social networks to enable our fellow citizens to keep contact with each other for the best but sometimes for the worst. Indeed, cyberharassment has literally exploded since the beginning of confinement. Special accounts dedicated to the dissemination of stolen photos have even been created to display girls considered easy. Psychologists explain this by the fact that when people get bored, it takes them to harm others. This resurgence of cyber-harassment is not, in the end, and unfortunately not a surprise, when we know that confinement has had the effect of increasing and aggravating violence within the family home, whether physical, psychological or sexual. Revenge porn is just psychological and sexual violence. I would like to thank the author of the proposal for her initiative. It is indeed time to criminalize not only all forms of non-consensual dissemination of images and sexual recording, but also the refusal to provide technical assistance in the removal of such images and recordings. I would like to thank colleagues who, in the light of the opinions received in committee and the hearings carried out, have worked constructively to ensure that this text complies not only with the principles of criminal legality and proportionality, but also in order to be able to set up an effective procedure. It was essential to avoid giving victims the false hope of being protected by a withdrawal procedure when they were unable to afford it. In the cases we aim at here, the victim wishes above all the removal of the images and recordings broadcast with the aim of harming, soiling and destroying it. Moreover, it is clear that the more offensive the image is, the faster it will spread and the faster it will be necessary to act to limit its impact. Accordingly, a maximum period of six hours from the date of service of the court of first instance has been provided for. This is an important legislative initiative aimed at recognizing victims through the criminalisation of these facts, but also at ensuring their protection through an effective procedure, ensuring the prompt removal of the disputed images and, failing that, heavy criminal penalties. To this end, a great deal of work has been done in committee, with many amendments tabled in the light of the experts' reflections. I was pleased to bring these amendments with some colleagues at first reading and with Mrs Matz at second reading. The elements of the infringement could thus be clarified, as well as the penalties provided for by ensuring that they were proportionate and dissuasive. The withdrawal procedure was also clarified with clear roles assigned to each: court of first instance, operators, Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. Aggravating circumstances have also been foreseen in cases of malicious intent, for profit and in all cases where the victim is a minor. The criminal scope of the bill has therefore gone beyond the scope of the renenge porn that was originally targeted, since today we are no longer targeting only images that are broadcast with an intention of revenge, but all those that would be broadcast without the victim's consent – whether the intention is revenge, the will to harm the person's reputation, blackmail him or even make money. The phenomenon we are aiming at here can therefore have dramatic consequences. It destroys the victims physically and psychologically. The lawyer Maxime Töller, whom we had the opportunity to hear in committee, was talking about social femicide, about an extreme form of harassment that is committed to make the victim dirty for a long time and whose victims are 90 per cent of the women. For that reason, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men should also be designated as the body competent to bring to justice, with the agreement, of course, of the victim or his successors. I am therefore very happy today to be able to support this text, with an emotional thought for all the victims. I really hope that the adoption of this text will give them the courage to complain, but also the courage to rebuild themselves, to regain confidence in them, in others, but also in our justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u153	Mr President, I will be very brief, but my group and I found it important to associate ourselves with the thanks already expressed in this House to the colleagues who have worked and carried out this substantive work to enable us to succeed, as well as to the author of this bill, which is a great step forward. We know that new technologies, networks have many advantages – we practice them today – but also have many perverse effects and can very quickly, like a drag of powder, forever destroy a life, which will take years to rebuild – if it succeeds. The only notion of revenge is heinous. I believe that the action taken today in this Parliament has its full meaning and that the victims will understand the interest of having a beautiful democracy that works and that, for such important issues – which affect human dignity – all are able to agree. That's what we need to remember, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u154	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u155	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (101/13) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (101/13) The title has been amended by the commission to "proposal for a law to combat the non-consensual dissemination of images and recordings of a sexual nature". The title was changed by the Committee to "legislative proposal to combat the non-consensual spread of sexually tinted images and recordings." The bill has 14 articles. The bill has 14 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u156	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u157	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 267: Patrick Prévot, Sophie Thémont, Christophe Lacroix, Ludivine Dedonder, Eliane Tillieux, Malik Ben Achour, Ahmed Laaouej - 325: Melissa Depraetere, John Crombez - 342: Melissa Depraetere, John Crombez 620: Leen Dierick, Steven Matheï, Jef Van den Bergh, Nawal Farih.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u158	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Patrick Prévot and Mr Gilles Vanden Burre.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u159	Mr President, Mr Verhelst and I have an amendment No. 50 submitted to Article 6 of the bill. We will ask for the opinion of the Council of State for that amendment. I would like to inform you in advance of the arrangements for the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u160	I would like to ask you whether your request is supported by 50 Members in order to regulate the work properly and before the discussion begins. Surely you will not embarrass me and ask for a vote to be taken immediately? That's not gonna work. Has your request been supported by sufficient members? I will use the same procedure as for the consideration and the urgency. I am looking at the leaders of the political groups. You therefore support this request, Mr Lachaert, as well as Mr De Roover, Mrs Pas and the MR Group. There are already 50 Members, so I will seek the opinion of the Council of State for that amendment, within the normal 30-day period. The discussion of the legislative proposal has therefore been suspended for the time being. Is everyone okay with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u161	In accordance with Article 270(1), (1), (11) of the Programme Law of 24 December 2002, the Chamber shall appoint from among its members a member who shall sit with an advisory voice on the Board of Directors of the Federal Centre of Expertise in Health Care.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u162	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 April 2020, I ask the group presidents to present, by 27 April 2020 at the latest, candidates for this function. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 April 2020, I ask the group chairmen to nominate candidates for this post by 27 April 2020. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u163	The following application was submitted within the prescribed time limit: The following application was submitted within the prescribed time limit: Monica De Coninck m Madame Monica De Coninck. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 April 2020, I propose that you transmit Mrs Monica De Coninck's curriculum vitae to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 April 2020, I propose that Mrs Monica De Coninck's curriculum vitae be delivered to the political groups. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u164	No applications were submitted. No applications were submitted. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 April 2020, I propose that you publish a new call for candidates for the Belgian Monitor. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 April 2020, I propose to announce a new call for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided that:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u165	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 April 2020, I propose that the following proposal be referred to the Committee on Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda: In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 April 2020, I propose that you refer the following proposal to the Committee on Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda: the motion for a resolution (MM. Reccino Van Lommel, Tom Van Grieken and Erik Gilissen) concerning the payment of unpaid undisputed invoices to the federal authorities, No. 1127/1. the motion for a resolution (Mr Reccino Van Lommel, Mr Tom Van Grieken and Mr Erik Gilissen) on the payment of uncontested outstanding invoices to the federal government, No. 1127/1. This proposal had previously been sent to the Committee on Finance and the Budget. This proposal was previously sent to the Finance and Budget Committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u166	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. The agenda also mentions a supplementary list of proposals for consideration by the Conference of Presidents. The agenda shall also include an additional list of proposals whose consideration has been requested from the Conference of Presidents. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to agree to the proposal to deal with the requests for urgency as it did last time, namely that the group leaders speak out on behalf of the whole group whether the request for urgency is supported or not. It is not intended that there should be a substantive debate here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u168	Mr President, I would like to ask the urgency of the thirteenth point on the list of recitals. It concerns the bill No. Mr Demon and Mr Brier's request that certain time limits be suspended. The bill has been prepared for the Home Office in the framework of COVID-19. Because of the current circumstances, there is a risk that public institutions will not be able to comply with the short deadlines in administrative procedures, thereby threatening disciplinary or administrative enforcement. That is why we are calling for the urgency of this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u169	Is the urgency supported? [[Assent]] The urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1158/1 accepted. Mr Verherstraeten, I would like to add the following immediately. As I announced last week and based on the logic of asking for the opinion of the Council of State, I also contacted the Council of State. I have insisted that, if the opinion is drawn up earlier, I should not be obliged to draw up the five-day deadline. I can then arrange for an immediate assignment in the committee responsible, which is a matter of time to be won. In my view, the opinion of the Council of State on matters which are the subject of power of attorney decisions is an additional guarantee for Parliament. There was consensus on this in the Conference of Presidents. There is therefore consensus on these two steps, namely urgency and advice from the Council of State within a period of five days. Who else is asking for the floor for an urgent request?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u170	Mr. Chairman, urgent action is required on three bills. The first concerns the Price Observatory and price control during the period of coronavirus (No 1153/1). The second concerns the cumulation of unemployment benefits with income from the pursuit of an artistic activity in the period we know (No 1154/1). Finally, the third concerns consumer credit, still linked to the crisis of the coronavirus (No. 1155/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u171	Mrs Kitir, Mr Lachaert, Mr Gilkinet, Mr Hedebouw and Mr Piedboeuf agreed to the request for urgent procedure. The urgency of these three proposals has therefore been accepted. Are there any other emergency requests?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u172	Mr. Chairman, we were calling for the urgency of four bills. These are documents Nos. 1159/1, 1161/1, 1162/1 and 1163/1. The first concerns the negative impact of VOCID-19 on the calculation of pensions, GRAPA, etc. This is an initial request from Minister Bacquelaine. Obviously, there is an urgent need to avoid any negative effects. The second concerns requests for mainly railway matters. A whole series of drivers are out of service, which creates a problem. If we respect the usual conditions of access, we will experience a shortage of drivers. The third concerns the accountability of skeyes for 2019. Given the situation, and the fact that skeyes has a lot of urgency to deal with, we want to extend the deadline. For the fourth, the aim is to allow continuity in air transport and air navigation. These requests are fully justified by the crisis situation of coronavirus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u173	To be clear, these are items 14, 16, 17 and 18 of the list. These are potential orders that have been transformed into bills, tabled by members of your group. I am going from the point of view that we can agree on the urgency, and that we agree that I should act in the same way with regard to the Council of State? [[Sentiment]] The emergency is adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u174	Mr President, we are asking for urgency with regard to the bills Nos. 1160/1, 1165/1, 1166/1 and 1168/1, all of which are related to the coronavirus crisis. Proposal No. 1160/1 aims to recognize the coronavirus pandemic as an occupational disease – which is a bit logical since everyone has to work. It also seems to me appropriate to recognize this disease as an occupational disease for all professions, including those not covered by health care. Proposal No 1165/1 is intended to respond to the urgency in the cultural sector. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that the situation in this sector is difficult, especially for those who have the status of artist. Proposal No 1166/1 is a motion for a resolution calling for full sharing of research information around the world. We believe that it is necessary to refuse to privatize the knowledge of vaccine research because there is a danger that monopolies will appear. We want the government to put in place binding licenses for multinationals like Johnson & Johnson who already announced they were in the race to break prices. We should not make money on the backs of the world's VOCID-19 victims. But I am sure that a consensus will soon be reached on this. Proposal No 1168/1 aims to increase the replacement rate for temporary unemployment benefits. As you know, most workers lose between 35 and 40% of their purchasing power. All of these proposals are related to coronavirus. That is why we are asking for them to be examined as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u175	You heard Mr Hedebouw. I'm gonna do the rounds. The groups of Mrs Kitir, Mr Laaouej and Mr Gilkinet agree, but the two liberal groups do not.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u176	Mr President, we do not agree. For the other three proposals, I would certainly like to support the urgency. That is not a prelude to our view of the content of the proposals, because they are all COVID-19-related. As far as the proposal No 1165/1 is concerned, it does not belong in the Chamber; it is a matter for the Länder. I do not see why this text should be dealt with urgently.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u177	But you do agree with the urgency of the three other proposals?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u178	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u179	Mr President, in last week's logic, we support the urgency of all COOVID-19 related proposals. For the proposal No 1165/1, I agree with Mrs Pas. Its discussion is absolutely inappropriate in this house. For the open public debate we will support the urgency of the other proposals. I also want the honour of the N-VA to be the only one not to get support for COOVID-19-related proposals, which I might be able to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u180	The N-VA does not support the question. Mrs. Fonck supports the emergency. Mr Verherstraeten did not support the urgency of any of the three proposals. There is an urgent need for the following three proposals: Nos 1160/1, 1166/1, 1168/1. For proposal No. 1165/1, urgency is not granted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u181	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to two proposals: firstly, proposal No 1167/1, which has a very similar purpose to that of proposal No 1166/1 of the PTB which has just received the urgency. I propose that they be joined. It also concerns an issue related to the next meeting on 17 May on the accessibility of patents. Secondly, proposal No 1164/1, concerning a consultation of Ondraf, which we would like to be able to extend, taking into account, as in other public consultations, the period of containment in relation to VOCID-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u182	For proposal No. 1167/1, you say that it is related to proposal No. 1166/1 which has obtained the urgency?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u183	Yes. Could they be linked?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u184	We must be careful: will the House still be able to deal with matters that are not urgent? This will be noticed in committee! The urgency is granted for proposals Nos 1167/1 and 1164/1. The committee meetings naturally take account of the urgent requests that have been made. As a result, we are likely to have urgent discussions as a rule and the normal discussion as an exception. Actually, I'm not allowed to comment on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u185	Mr President, may I ask a short question? There are a number of legislative proposals, COVID-related and not from the Cabinets, for which we have accepted urgency. Would it not therefore be appropriate, in the context of equal treatment, to ask for the opinion of the Council of State in the same short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u186	Mr President, with all due respect for Mr Verherstraeten, that is not what was agreed at the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u187	Mr President, I am not in favour of making it an automatism. If 50 Members of the Chamber ask for the reference to the Council of State, this can of course be proposed for these proposals, but I would not make it an automatic one.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u188	I have said that I would do so from my office when it comes to texts whose origin is not in this Chamber but in an administration or cabinet and who have then received a parliamentary signature. I call that disguised draft laws, and I think we should ask for an urgent opinion. There is no reason to assume that, for example, Mr Hedebouw's proposals were made somewhere in a cabinet. Those are parliamentary texts. That is what I think, it is a conjecture the counter-proof of which can and may be provided. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u189	That goes beyond what I've announced. You no longer insist on it, but if anyone asks for the reference to the Council of State, 50 Members must support it. Mr Verherstraeten, I see that you are not pushing any further. No one asks for the reference to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u190	This inquiry was developed in public meetings of the social affairs, employment and pensions and the economy, consumer protection and the Digital Agenda of 8 April 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Joint Committees for Social Affairs, Work and Pensions and for Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda of 8 April 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 2/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Leen Dierick. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 2/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Leen Dierick. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u191	Mr President, the N-VA has always been critical of postponing the period of delivery and sale. It's not because something sounds good that it's good. We understand that traders are going through difficult times today and want to compensate as much as possible for the losses suffered, but applying fixed prices for a longer period instead of selling prices does not seem economically productive, on the contrary. We fear that will do more harm than good. It will only push more consumers towards e-commerce by foreign providers. The consumer, who often already suffers from a loss of purchasing power, will be able to find a wide range of clothes there, which will also be sold at a discount. That also makes sense, because in summer there is only a limited market for winter clothes. For this reason, we see greater benefits in strengthening our market system by, for example, abolishing the barrier period for the solders. We put forward a proposal for this in September. Moreover, the barrier period is contrary to European law. We also want to encourage traders to jump on the digital train themselves. Those are just a few examples. That is, of course, for a debate in committee. In any case, for all the reasons mentioned, we will not support the motion on the basis of the interplay.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u192	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my surprise was great when Mr Dierick of CD&V, in committee, proudly announced before I asked my question, that a simple motion would be tabled to move on to the order of the day. I was even more surprised when the same colleague called in a facebook poll on the delay of the solders not to support our question and to proceed to the order of the day. That is all the more strange now that her own Minister Muylle has finally decided to carry out part of my motion and postpone the solders until 1 August. Colleagues, my point is actually about the order of the day. In particular, it deals with retailers, who had to close down, pay their seasonal collection in full, buy the next collection soon and many of whom will not survive the corona crisis. We are therefore particularly pleased that the Minister has already carried out part 1 of our motion. The second part of our motion is to extend the solders by one month. By extending the solder period, we increase the chance for the shopkeepers to sell out their unsold spring and summer collection. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you not to support Mr Dierick's simple motion and to opt for our economy and employment in these difficult times. Retailing is an important part of this. Don't forget that this sector was already having a particularly difficult time before the crisis. It is our job as politicians to ensure that retailers and their workers also get out of the crisis in one piece.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u193	Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u194	Yes 104 Yes No. [[45]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 149 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u195	This inquiry was developed in public meetings of the social affairs, employment and pensions and the economy, consumer protection and the Digital Agenda of 8 April 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Joint Committees for Social Affairs, Work and Pensions and for Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda of 8 April 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 3/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Erik Gilissen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Isabelle Galant and Ms Kathleen Verhelst. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 3/ 1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Erik Gilissen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Isabelle Galant and Mrs Kathleen Verhelst. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u196	Mr President, it should not be surprising that the ornamental farming sector is close to my heart as a Gentse. Eighty percent of European azaleas are of eastern Flemish origin. It is clear that the corona virus does not save anyone, not even the ornamental sector. Ornamentalists have lots of plants that they can't sell because of the corona measures. We are therefore pleased that it has been decided to reopen the garden centres so that a lot less plants will have to be destroyed and the ornamental growers will no longer be able to lose their income completely. We hope that other self-employed workers will soon have a perspective of improvement, but at the moment and in view of yesterday's decision, this motion seems to be a bit without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u197	Mr President, I would like to explain the motion we tabled. Despite yesterday's decision to reopen garden centres and DIY business, the ornamental sector remains severely affected. Eighty percent of the annual turnover is realized in the period from mid-March to mid-May. At present we are already halfway through this period. Many flowers and plants that are grown to sell in the first half of the peak period are no longer suitable for sale. These are months of work that are lost, and there is no income. At Flemish level, all parties agree that additional measures are needed to support the sector. Consultation with the sector, both at Flemish and federal level, is necessary in order to develop effective measures. That is why we also call for the federal level, across party boundaries, to support our motion and to actually consult with the sector and see what is needed. There are risks of bankruptcy, resulting in a loss of employment. The financial well is growing and is likely to weigh on our budget for years to come. Some in this hemisphere would have preferred more companies to close rather than resume activities. This could make the financial well and the number of bankruptcies even more significant. Taxing companies and multinationals all sounds nice, but they also ultimately charge it back in their sales prices, so that the final consumer eventually has to pay the bill. And we are already one of the most expensive countries in Europe. When multinationals are heavily burdened, they disappear, resulting in job losses and increased pressure on our social security systems. However, we will need all the companies and workers in order to restore economic recovery and to reduce the pit that is now being created. The same applies to the ornamental sector. We must try to keep as many people working safely as possible and to avoid the loss of jobs as much as possible. The more shoulders carry the loads, the smaller the load per shoulder.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u198	Thank you, Mr Gilissen, but explanations of vote usually take two minutes. Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u199	Yes 107 Yes No. [[42]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 149 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u200	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 119 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 25 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the legislative proposal, as amended at the plenary session of 9 April 2020. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (553/12) Accordingly, the House adopted the bill, as amended in plenary session on April 9, 2020. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (553/12)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u201	(Mr Theo Francken abstained)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u202	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 145 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 147 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (683/10) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (683/10)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u203	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 148 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (723/10) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (723/10)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u204	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 147 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 147 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (101/14) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (101/14)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-16-55-plenair-ip036x.u205	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 23 April 2020 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, April 23, 2020 at 2:15 p.m.
