ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u1	I would like to remind you of the speaking time. In a topical debate we have two minutes per questioner and five minutes for the Minister. If there are many questions, however, I suggest that the Minister should take a little more time, rather than twenty minutes, Madam Minister. For the ordinary questions there is a speaking time of two and a half minutes for the questioner, two and a half minutes for the Minister and one minute for the reply. May I ask you to stick to your speaking time? In the meantime, I have learned that the Zoom of Teams online system tends to speak even longer than in the committee room. That doesn't promise much good. You also know that you are not obliged to read your question. You can also refer to the text you have submitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u2	Mr President, Minister, the Constitutional Court annulled the law of 28 June 2015 amending the law of 2003 on the gradual exit from nuclear power by means of the judgment of 5 March 2020. This law mainly concerned the extension of the life of the nuclear reactors Objective 1 and Objective 2 to 2025. This judgment was already announced last summer following a preliminary question from the Constitutional Court to the European Court of Justice. The effects of the contested law can, fortunately, be maintained until 31 December 2022 at the latest. That should enable the government to remedy this. This concerns in particular the preparation of a preliminary environmental impact assessment. It is a cross-border procedure and the possibility of public participation. In other words, it concerns the interpretation of the EIA Directive at European level. My questions are clear. Last month you reacted very laconically in the press about the ruling of the Constitutional Court. You said: "The fact that the government has 34 months to give, confirms that those procedures could never have been completed in 2015 before the government had to take the decision to extend." So a very laconic reaction, but I am particularly interested in the follow-up, the remedial action, the government's environmental impact assessment? Last year, you said you anticipated that. You said the preparation was already under way. I also wonder what's going on here. At this time of powers of attorney, the continuity of energy supply is central. To what extent are you doing this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u3	Mr President, Minister, I had tabled two questions, one to you and one to Minister De Crem, since it concerns different powers. I have noticed that the Committee on the Interior has also forwarded my question to Minister De Crem to this committee, so I assume that you will also answer that second question. My question has actually already been introduced by Mr Ravyts. I think it is important to consider what steps need to be taken to allow those power stations to supply electricity after 2022 and to ensure security of supply. If we take into account the various elements, both in terms of nuclear safety and in terms of security of supply, then the question is how you assess that statement and its effects. What steps do you consider necessary to intervene in the legislative and regulatory framework? We also need to know how the responsibilities are divided. How will cooperation be conducted between the Minister for Energy, the Minister for the Interior, the FANC, the operator, consultations with neighbouring countries and so on? Who will take responsibility for its coordination? What is the planning and the specific timing for all those intermediate steps? When is it planned that this route will be completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u4	Thank you very much, Mr Wollants, for keeping to your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u5	Mr President, Minister, like Mr Wollants, I had also put questions to you and to the Minister for the Interior, given his powers in relation to the EIA. I too hope to get an answer to both questions. Madam Minister, what steps should be taken to comply with the judgment in No. 34/2020 of the Constitutional Court? What legislative or other initiatives is the government preparing? What legislative and executive initiatives are needed to enable the EIA to be implemented, in particular on the law of 6 December 2018, which was the transposition of Directive 2014/52? The adoption of the Act of 6 December 2018 did not take into account the possibility that the lifetime provision constitutes a project under the EIA Directive, as it was even explicitly intended to keep the lifetime extension outside the scope. It therefore seems to me that adjustments are needed. I have another question of another order, which has also been added to the agenda. In the context of the extension of life, an agreement has also been concluded between the Belgian State, Electrabel and ENGIE, subject to the economic parameters relating to the extension of the lifetime of Objective 1 and Objective 2. What is the impact of the judgment of the Constitutional Court on that agreement, in particular when the period of enforcement of the legal effects expires without the adoption of a new law?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u6	Madam Minister, I am pleased to see you all again, although I hope that this can soon happen again in a slightly different setting. The first speaker, Mr Ravyts, briefly explained the situation. He also said that "happy" power stations may remain open until 2022. EIA procedures are, of course, not frivolous procedures. The legislator once created it, because they have a certain interest. We are not talking about a gazebo here, we are talking about a nuclear power plant. I am therefore not so happy to see that there are nuclear installations on our territory which are not in order. What will happen now? How will you handle it? The deadline is December 2022. Is that deadline feasible? If not, is it still worth taking all these steps, given the core exit in 2025? Isn't there another option? Can we not simply proceed to the closure? For us, this is once again proof that nuclear energy is and remains a very difficult story. What is your position on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, on 29 July last year we were already aware of this judgment delivered by the Court of Justice of the European Union, which considered that the federal government could not extend Doel 1 and 2 without carrying out impact studies or cross-border consultation. We have already questioned many times, even before this judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. On 4 September, you still told us that you could not put in place the procedures required by European law. On 5 March, the Constitutional Court's ruling fell and annulled the Doel 1 and Doel 2 reactor extension law. I think this stop is the chronicle of a failure announced since beautiful lurette, but at the same time it can also represent an opportunity to accelerate the energy transition. My questions will be very short and to the point. Do you really intend to waste all this time in cross-border consultation procedures with environmental impact studies – by also studying the scope, radius, precise timing of consultation abroad – or do you want to move forward faster and undertake initiatives in the very short term to precisely accelerate the energy transition? Finally, a question concerning the royalties paid by Electrabel in return for the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 – 20 million per year, which were increased to 30 million last year. What is the impact of the Constitutional Court's ruling on the fund on the energy transition?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u8	Mr President, Madam Minister, the honourable Members have recalled the facts, and I will not go back to that. Before I ask you my questions, I would like to make a connection with the delay that we are obviously taking and that is getting worse on the CRM file. If CRM was essential to security of supply, and if the capability compensation mechanism was ultimately not created in time, then there are very strong lessons to be learned from the Doel 1 and Doel 2 cases. Extending one or more nuclear power plants – which should perhaps be the case if you don't get away with this CRM – does not happen at the rush, it is not a living room lamp that you turn on or off at night. There are indeed procedures – as the Constitutional Court has pointed out – and there are very strict procedures to follow. I would like to know what is your analysis of the ruling of the Constitutional Court. What are the timing and precise method of compliance? Have any prior assignments already started? If not, when can they be undertaken? Have you ever contacted your counterparts to launch the requested cross-border consultation? Finally, Madam Minister, should we fear for the security of supply of our country in 2025 and, already, in 2022?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u9	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that you are all doing well, as well as your families and loved ones. As the subject has already been outlined, I will proceed directly to my questions. The Doel 1 and 2 reactors were built in 1975 to operate for 40 years - not the 50 that they will reach if left in operation until 2025. As my colleague Ben Achour pointed out, these are not small businesses, but rather Seveso sites squared. Given the dangerous nature of nuclear power, what are the reasons for the absence of an environmental impact assessment under this extension? Secondly, the Constitutional Court agreed to grant a deadline to the government and did not impose the immediate arrest of the power plants, while recognizing the existence of a risk. It also does not rule on the merits of the extension as such. However, could you tell us more about this risk? What is the nature of it? Moreover, what of the Tihange 1 reactor, which was built at the same time and which was extended before Doel 1 and 2? Has an impact study been conducted? If not, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u10	Madam Minister, at the beginning of March, the Constitutional Court decided to cancel this law of 28 June 2015 allowing the ten-year extension of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 reactors. Before issuing its judgment, the Constitutional Court questioned the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg. According to the European court, the extension of power plants is an operation of a size comparable to their commissioning. It therefore had to be subject to an impact assessment, which had not been carried out. Reactors will not be stopped immediately since 34 months, until 31 December 2022, are left to carry out an environmental impact study including public participation and a cross-border consultation on the extension of reactors. If the Court agrees to grant such a time limit to the government, that it does not impose an immediate shutdown of the reactors, it is also in line with a guarantee of security of electricity supply. As a reminder, these two reactors must close as part of the release of nuclear power in 2025, on 15 February for Doel 1 and on 1 December for Doel 2. Minister, what steps have you taken to complete these studies in a timely manner? How will they be organised? How long?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u11	Madam Secretary, I also have a few questions. The ruling of the Constitutional Court was expected. It was also clear and realistic, in the sense that the Court did not decide to close the power stations, which would be a disaster for our country's security of supply. However, we must now be able to produce an environmental impact report for two nuclear power plants in two and a half years' time. That is absolutely not an easy matter. Anyone who knows what an environmental impact report means, even locally, knows that this often takes a year or two years. Here it is also accompanied by a public consultation, including from abroad. So we all need to be aware of the gravity of the task of getting that done in good time. So I would like to ask a number of questions that colleagues have not yet asked, Madam Minister. Have you taken steps since the judgment to start the trial as soon as possible? What if we have not completed the environmental impact report for Objectives 1 and 2 in time? Have you had any contact with the plant operator and what was the outcome? What are the possible consequences for the operator if the plants were to close at the beginning of 2023?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u12	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. I see that you are all in good health, and I am delighted that this is the same for your families and your loved ones. I will do some retroacts in this relatively complicated debate to recall that, on 28 June 2015, the federal legislature passed a law amending the Act of 31 January 2003 on the progressive release of nuclear energy for industrial electricity production, in order to guarantee security of energy supply. I recall the title of the law, the last part of which is fundamental since it was "the urgency and the guarantee of our security of energy supply". This law postponed the deactivation of the Doel 1 nuclear power plant for another ten years until 15 February 2025, and also postponed the date of the end of industrial power generation at Doel 2 until 1 December 2025 by almost ten years. The ASBL Inter-Environnement Wallonie and Bond Beter Leefmilieu Vlanderen brought an action before the Belgian Constitutional Court for annulment of this law and, in support of these actions, the two ASBLs invoked non-compliance with several European directives, namely the so-called "EIE" Directive, the so-called "Habitats" Directive, the so-called "Birds" Directive and the Aarhus and Espoo Conventions. As far as the future is concerned, you know her. On 22 June 2017, the Constitutional Court asked the Court of Justice of the European Union to interpret these conventions and directives in order to determine, in substance, whether the adoption of a law delaying the deactivation of nuclear power plants required an environmental impact assessment and public consultation. The Court of Justice of the European Union replied, more than two years later, by a judgment of 29 July 2019 in deciding the following items which I will quickly review. 1. Restarting and postponing the deactivation of these reactors together with the work of which they are inseparable constitute a project within the meaning of the EIA and Habitats Directives. 2. The contested law constitutes an authorisation within the meaning of Article 1 of the EIA Directive or at least the first step in the process of authorising the project in question. 3. The project in question is presumed to have a significant impact on the environment within the meaning of the Directive. 4. This project is likely to affect a site protected by the Habitats Directive; 5. None of the exceptions invoked by the parties to avoid carrying out the assessments, if any, is a priori met. In a judgment delivered just under a year later, on 5 March 2020, the Constitutional Court concluded that the law of 28 June 2015 had been annulled by adding details to the European Court of Justice's judgment. However, it decided to maintain the effects of the law until "the adoption of a new law preceded by an environmental impact assessment and an appropriate assessment required, including public participation and cross-border consultation, by 31 December 2022 at the latest". I now turn to my conclusions and actions which I have undertaken accordingly, after this judgment. The Court annulled the law of 28 June, but maintained the effects of that law until 31 December 2022. It authorises the Belgian State to regularise illegality by carrying out a posteriori environmental impact assessment and an appropriate assessment under the Habitats Directive. All environmental impacts that have occurred since the project was completed will have to be taken into account. This means that there have already been previous evaluations, and that they will be used. In order to cover this illegality, the Belgian State will adopt a new law which postpones the deactivation of its nuclear power plants at Doel 1 and Doel 2 until 31 December 2022 and will carry out prior to the adoption of this new law an environmental impact assessment and an appropriate assessment including public participation and cross-border consultation. This already answers some of your questions. In order to implement the ruling of the Constitutional Court or its consequences, it is necessary to define the purpose of the evaluation as required by the Court, and to distinguish the assessment process required by the EIA Directive from the assessment process required by the Habitats Directive. As regards environmental impact assessment, it should be recalled that the Act of 28 June 2015, which postponed the deactivation of Doel 1 and Doel 2 and the measures adopted by that Act, is based on the competence of the Belgian State, as set out in Article 194 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which allows each State to determine the conditions for the exploitation of its energy resources, to choose its energy mix. Let us also recall the obligation of each State to ensure the security of supply of its territory. The risks to security of supply in 2015 and also identified during the past legislature have been attested by numerous studies carried out by independent bodies. The 2015-16 winter, following the passage of the Act of June 28, 2015, demonstrated, as you know, that there were concrete risks to security of supply. These risks were far from theoretical, and blackout was narrowly avoided only thanks to the additional capacity of the extended Doel 1 and Doel 2 power plants. The measures taken by Belgium have been welcomed by many international bodies and you will find these positive points in a study published by the International Energy Agency. The Constitutional Court also stated that "the reality and gravity of a structural threat of disruption of the country's electricity supply, which cannot be met by other means and alternatives, particularly within the framework of the internal market, are established". The judgment therefore recognises the validity of the Belgian State's decision to postpone the deactivation of Doel 1 and Doel 2 in order to deal with a short-term and structural threat to the country's electricity supply. The analysis of the environmental impact of the postponement of deactivation of nuclear power plants must be distinguished from the analysis to be carried out by the operator of the related work, even if the Belgian State must take account of the reality of this work, since the Constitutional Court considers that they are part of the essential element of the beginning of the authorisation or the project of the postponement of the deactivation of Doel 1 and Doel 2. The Court notes that the 2030 supply outlook study analyses security of supply in the case of an extension of the operating time of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 nuclear units and the closure of Doel 3 and Tihange 2. This scenario, called Nuc-2000 (which some of you are very familiar with since we have talked about extensively in the previous legislature), has, like the others, been the subject of an environmental impact analysis. Environmental impact analyses had already been carried out through this study. The Court went on to say: "While several studies or expert hearings have made it possible to assess the risks to security of supply, in the absence of such an extension, as well as the need to carry out work to modernise the nuclear power plants, which are indispensable because of this extension, they were asked only to express their views on the very principle of extending the duration of electricity production... Their vote did not, as such, concern the work on the modernization of nuclear power plants." A preliminary analysis of the environmental impacts, of the postponement of the deactivation of power plants, according to the Constitutional Court, was therefore well done in the context of the strategic environmental study and in the context of the 2030 supply outlook study. I will simply sum up – to avoid being too complex – that we will take into account the previous studies that have been carried out, we will update them and we will do these studies not only with regard to the principle of postponing the deactivation of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 plants, but also – for the part concerning the federal state and not the operator – of the related work. The State will therefore deal with the strict aspect of the legal framework for deferment of deactivation and will update the documents related to this postponement. As regards the assessment process required by the Directive, which must be distinguished specifically from the Habitats Directive, it must be borne in mind that within the Belgian State there is a division of powers – as you know. All that concerns ionizing radiation is the capacity and competence of the Federal State, while all that concerns the environment is the capacity and competence of the Regions, and in this case – as it is Doel 1 and Doel 2 – of the Flemish Region. The qualification – and I am going to stop for a moment on this important element – given by the Constitutional Court of the Act of 28 June 2015 is to say that the federal legislator has taken a framework decision which lays down the principle of a ten-year extension and whose implementation and the consequences for modernization and security work were identified at the time of the adoption of the Act. In this context, for the Belgian Constitutional Court, the Act of 28 June is the first step in a project authorisation process, the project being the extension of these plants. The law of 28 June 2015 must therefore be regarded as a decision in principle. The Court therefore uses the concept of framework decision and considers that the sole purpose of this decision is to confirm the principle of deferring deactivations. With respect to the work, the operator should apply for the required permits. It is also up to the operator, who carries out the works of modernization of the plants and the finances, to take on the task prior to the adoption of the new law, to have the impact assessment carried out and the appropriate evaluation carried out in connection with the work for which he is responsible. The Federal State must be concerned with an assessment of the impact of the framework decision as qualified by the Court of the Law of 28 June 2015, cannot encroach on the environmental competences of the Flemish Region and will work in conjunction with it; while the operator will be responsible for the assessments related to the modernisation of the plants. To answer some of your questions, the coordinating force of this whole is my administration, DG Energy. The Commission has been working for several months on the development of a specification which will be finalized shortly and which will allow a public contract to be launched in order to identify a consultant who will carry out the work which is the responsibility of the Federal State within the limits I have just outlined. At the same time, Electrabel, with whom DG Energy and my firm obviously have contacts, will also identify a consultant who will enable him to carry out impact studies on its specific management in the context of modernisation work and impact assessment within this strict framework. The Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FCAA) is also involved. That is why I have been asked to answer the questions that some of you asked the Minister of the Interior, since the AFCN does not fall within my competence but rather within the powers of the Minister of the Interior, although in this process we will work very closely with the AFCN, while maintaining its full and complete independence. Please be aware that steps have been taken by my administration and also by the operator with the AFCN, each for its own sake, in order to have the agency's perspective on the postponement of the deactivation and on the completion of the work. Under no circumstances – I am now addressing the issue of responsibilities – will the State take any responsibility either in the context of the work carried out or to be carried out by Electrabel, or in the context of their execution. I repeat, the federal state is responsible for the security of supply component. It will carry out the update of the impact assessment and an appropriate assessment relating to the strict legal principle set out in the Framework Decision of the Law of 28 June 2015 on the postponement of the deactivation of the two plants. The State and the operator shall assume sole responsibility for the assessments carried out on their behalf in terms of completeness, timeliness and quality. As regards the Habitats Directive and the assessment process required by that Directive, the project also requires an evaluation within the meaning of Article 6(3) of the Directive in question. This is a specific and quite appropriate assessment. It is specific in the sense that it should focus solely on the consequences of the project on the protected site and not on all components of the environment and the environment. It is appropriate to the extent that the environmental impact assessment must be considered in relation to the conservation objectives of the site. However, the Habitats Directive does not contain any description of the process for carrying out the specific and appropriate assessment. It must not be confused – I repeat – with the impact study required by the EIA Directive. There is a possibility of joining these two procedures. The EIA Directive provides that projects for which an assessment is required by both its provisions and those of the Habitats Directive may be subject to coordinated or common procedures. Of course, we will analyze this aspect of things so that the work can be done properly. But we are at the beginning of the evaluation. I will come back to you later because this process will take quite a long time. As far as cross-border consultation is concerned, as far as I am aware, we have not yet made contact – through the Directorate-General for Energy and Climate – with the administrations of the countries around us, namely the Netherlands, Germany and France. We are, of course, preparing this work to see what scope is to be used in assessing the cross-border impacts to be taken over by the federal state. I would point out that, in its judgment of 29 July 2019, the European Court of Justice held that the Doel 1 and Doel 2 plants, being located close to the border of the Kingdom of Belgium with the Kingdom of the Netherlands, it cannot be disputed that such a project is also likely to have a significant impact on the environment of the latter Member State within the meaning of Article 7 of the Directive. We are therefore analysing this aspect of the consultation so that it can be carried out in an appropriate manner and so that the public consultation phase can be carried out in the widest possible way for neighbouring countries. Mr Warmoes, you have asked questions about the past and the previous legislature. I'm going to do a little parenthesis for you because I can't answer your specific questions through the note I've prepared. You say that the reactors are built for 40 years, not 50 years. You are targeting nuclear danger by asking why there has been no environmental impact assessment. First of all, to our knowledge, there is no particular danger that would have been mentioned by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FCCA). What concerns nuclear safety depends on the AFCN and falls within the competence of the Minister of the Interior, whom you can question about it. Secondly, nuclear reactors have not been licensed for 40 years or for 50 years, but have received an individual authorisation of unlimited duration in time, accompanied by a process – independently governed by the AFCN – of periodic safety review every 10 years. The latter obviously looked at the extension of Tihange 1 and Doel 1 and Doel 2. For reasons of security of supply, these plants have been extended and the Constitutional Court confirms this by indicating it in its expectations. You then say that the Court agrees to grant a time limit to the government and does not impose an immediate judgment but recognizes the existence of a risk. Furthermore, you say that it does not rule on the merits of the extension as such. You're asking what the risk is. I'll tell you I don't understand your question. Are you talking about the risk in terms of electricity supply or, again, a safety issue? If that is the case, I refer you to my first reply: the Constitutional Court recalls that "it cannot be disputed that the threat of disruption of the country's electricity supply is serious" (recital B.30.5). You're asking me about Tihange 1 by asking me if an environmental impact study has been conducted on its extension, which falls under the law passed under the anti-epenultimate legislature in 2013. I must tell you that the postponement of the deactivation of Tihange 1 was, as I have just said, decided by the Di Rupo government, at the initiative of Melchior Wathelet, then Secretary of State who had some of my current powers. I was not present at that time and therefore cannot pronounce myself categorically on this matter. As you may, I have read the parliamentary documents on this bill in the report of the ad hoc committee. At that time, Secretary of State Melchior Wathelet, who responded to Ms Gerkens, said: "The sustainable development impact assessment was carried out. The documents shall be made available to the members of the committee." I must confess that I have never found any trace of these documents. At that time, the legislation did not impose what we now call an AIR. However, the same text, which consisted of an assessment of the environmental impacts of the proposed legislation, had another name. I imagine that he was then joined in the parliamentary debate. Mr Wollants, for example, who was present, could certainly tell us about it. As far as follow-up is concerned, it will now be carried out by my administration and my office. As for the timetable, it has already been the subject of an evaluation which will continue until 31 December 2022. In order to be quite frank and precise with you, I must point out that we can only clearly define the first steps we have taken so far, that is, the establishment of all the coordination that I have just mentioned, the legal framework within which we are entering and all the related details. I reply to Mrs Van der Straeten on a point-by-point basis: the support of the law of 6 December 2018, which implements the directive and/or amends Belgian legislation in this area, may not be sufficient and may need to be supplemented, but we have not yet reached a conclusion in this legal reflection. Here too, we will have to keep thinking about it. I'll come back to you at the right time. We know it's a base, but it's a base that's not quite enough. We do not even have a view of the date on which we will be releasing the specifications that will launch the matching call to find the study office or institution that will conduct these studies on behalf of the federal government. All this is going to take its course. I invite you to ask me questions about this on a regular basis. I myself will spontaneously return to you as soon as certain elements are clarified. When we have passed the course of the specifications, I think I will have a more precise timing in the medium term, whereas today I do not even have the full timing in the short term. Are there any impacts on the agreement between the federal state and Electrabel? To speak specifically, and in line with your questions, this agreement provides for compensation on both sides if one of the parties to the agreement fails to comply with its obligations. What are the mutual and reciprocal obligations? In order to schematize, the operator operates until 2025 and the State, which needs this security of supply until 2025, receives the electricity produced by the operator until 2025. If the State does not do everything necessary to ensure that the holding is maintained until 2025, compensation and termination of the payment of the fee which is the counterpart of the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 until 2025 will be required. This fee, which is EUR 20 million per year for ten years until 2025, was "increased" to EUR 30 million during a few financial years to catch up with the delay due to the implementation of the Royal Decree establishing the Energy Transition Fund. In order not to lose 1 euro, we have, for a few years, increased the amount of 20 million paid annually by Electrabel from the amounts paid in 2016 and 2017, if I remember correctly. I quote these memory numbers. If you want clarification, Mr. Cogolati, I will pass it on to you through my collaborator. Once we have made this catch-up, we will return to EUR 20 million a year. There is no danger of cessation of payment unless we are unable to complete all the required transactions within the time allowed. But I would like to reassure you on this point for the sake of the simple reason that the deadline granted to us by the Constitutional Court of Belgium is a very long period of time, which corresponds to what we had argued before it and which we had assessed broadly as the time needed to carry out these specific environmental studies, especially since they are taking place for the first time in Belgium and are even, to my knowledge, a first at European level. These studies also serve as "laboratories", "pilots" in the event that a subsequent full-function government, in the light of security of supply requirements or even in the light of an opportune decision on its energy mix, were to decide – which is entirely within its competence since it is a sovereign power – on the extension of certain nuclear power stations. In this case, of course, this experience and obligation should be taken into account when calculating the time required for pre-environmental studies. It is not certain that these preliminary environmental studies would take as long as we are going to do now, especially since we may have completed them before December 31, 2022. As long as we do not have a clear view of a medium- and long-term timetable, I cannot answer that question. However, I really feel that we have enough time, and that it is even possible, at that time, to shorten the time. So, in our view, there is no problem. I am obviously speaking on behalf of the Federal State, and on the basis of the information I receive from my administration. There is no security of supply problem by the end of December 2022. These studies will be carried out. There are also no problems on the intermediate horizon, between 2022 and 2025, compared to Doel 1 and Doel 2. If the question arises in relation to Doel 3 and Tihange 2, I am obliged to ask you to ask a new specific question at some point. Indeed, we are then outside the scope of the decision of the Constitutional Court, which is devoted only to the postponement of the deactivation of Doel 1 and Doel 2. It does not deal with Tihange 1, referred to in Mr. Warmoes' request, nor with the possible cessation of activities provided for in the law when Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reach the age of 40, i.e., with unchanged legislation, respectively in 2022 and 2023. I have been relatively long and I apologize for this, but it is a very complicated, fantastic and thrilling matter, which will plunge us into the slightest corner of the legislation. To do things right, that's what you have to do. For a number of weeks and even months, we have been immersed in these matters in an attempt to achieve the best possible compliance with the obligations arising from the Constitutional Court's ruling. Thank you for your attention. Mr. President, I'm done right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u14	Madam Minister, thank you for your very long but also very important answer. I am pleased that you have described once again how the 2015 decision was reached. The risks related to security of supply were there at the time and were also recognised by a number of studies. The validity of these historic decisions is therefore indeed there. Of course, there was another legal interpretation by not only the European Court but also by the Constitutional Court, contrary to what the FANC claimed in 2015. But that's the past. As far as the future is concerned, I am pleased that you have identified the differences in the roles that the federal government and the operator have to play, and that you have discussed the updating of the EIA studies, the security of supply and the framework decision. Of course, I am also curious about the further progress. You have been able to say very little about the timing. I'm not worried about that right away. We'll follow up on the file very closely. The notebook's here. There's going to be a tender soon. I also think it is very important that you have said between the lines that what will be achieved in the next few months and years in the field of studies will also be of interest to the future. This year there will have to be a decision on the nuclear exit, and I wonder which government will take that decision. But then we are all in the CRM story of colleague Ben Accour and that is not today's scope.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u15	Mr President, it is particularly important for us to know that things remain at speed and that all steps are taken to ensure that the EIA is there. That does not seem to me to be an insurmountable issue. After all, we all know that a complete and comprehensive EIA was created for the Objective nuclear power plant in 2010. This means that a whole range of these components are perfectly reusable for this procedure, for the extension of Objectives 1 and 2, but also for other decisions relating to that nuclear power plant. That is why I believe it is absolutely important that we continue to monitor closely from Parliament how this dossier evolves. I also went to look at my file from the period when Tihange 1's life span was extended. Mr Wathelet presented an effective document on sustainable development, but this was in practice about the sustainable development impact assessment (DEA). It also included the quick scan with which Mr Wathelet demonstrated or tried to demonstrate, depending on who told the story "no need for far-reaching screening." It was possible to exempt from this. It is a six-page document, and I assume that this is not what we understand under an environmental impact report. I can only observe that the need for an environmental impact report was clearly not considered in that legislative period. It is important that we at least continue with this, so that we can ensure that Objectives 1 and 2 continue to run beyond 2022. I am counting on the members of the government who are working on it to do everything in their power.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u16	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for the comprehensive answer that was mainly about the analysis of the judgment. The concrete steps were previously dealt with at the theoretical level. I am concerned when I hear that the legal framework on the EIA aspects will certainly not suffice. A change is therefore needed, but no steps have yet been taken. I do not see how an EIA can be started if there is no final legal framework. In addition, no contact has yet been established with the administrations of our neighbouring countries, so I fear that there may be a problem in terms of timing. I'm not sure we'll be able to keep up the timing, but I'll give you the benefit of the doubt. There will have to be continuous work and, first and foremost, the legislative framework must of course be put into effect. Otherwise, we'll be farther from there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u17	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your detailed reply. You are quite optimistic about the procedural progress in the file. Despite your detailed explanation, it is not, of course, a file to be proud of. The sp.a has always noted that the law is being bypassed in this respect. We have now been proved right. It could be argued that this is impossible governance. Whether I'm happy there or not, the situation is what she is. We currently have a number of old nuclear power stations with illegal status. Much worse is an issue which is also reflected in your answer. You say that your administration has been working on the dossier for months and that there will be a lot of time, money and effort in these old power stations. That's too bad. I would much rather, together with the committee members, deal with questions, such as how we land offshore energy, how we increase storage and how we can provide more demand response. So we would much rather be dealing with the future of the energy sector. For me, these power stations symbolise an old energy policy. Two Members have already referred to the debate on whether we should keep two or three more plants open. Everyone knows that the future in this country will be a future without nuclear power stations. We must therefore, above all, prepare this future. At a time like today, we need to focus on this. That is why this is a very unfortunate dossier. I can't get past that, despite your long answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u18	Madam Minister, thank you for your lengthy explanations. I can tell you that I admire your optimism. You manage to stay very positive on this stop which nevertheless decides to cancel. I've even heard you talk about a judgment recognizing the validity of the extension law. What I remember from this judgment is above all that both the Court of Justice of the European Union and our Constitutional Court say very clearly that we do not extend a nuclear power plant as we extend a factory of broom sleeves or clothespins. It is an ultra-serious, ultra-complex subject requiring environmental impact studies and cross-border studies. Let me be astonished. You tell us that there is not yet a precise timetable in the medium and long term, but you have the'sentiment' that there would be no problem. A second point, and this is an essential condition imposed by European case law, concerns the cross-border consultation of our neighbouring countries. If I have heard you correctly, no contact has yet been made with these neighbouring countries. So, Madam Minister, let me be surprised. This democratic and citizen consultation should, for a very long time, be taken much more seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u19	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I too stress your optimism. However, I would like to tell you that this optimism must not be limited to denial. You say there is no security of supply problem in 2022. I would like to remind you of Elia's study of adequacy and flexibility. This study indicates that the accelerated release of coal also implies a need for additional capacity that may exceed one gigawatt over the period 2022-2025 and will require additional measures. The problem will therefore potentially arise more acutely in 2022. You say that there is no precise timing, no concrete methodology, no contact with our neighbours. You're talking about the incidence study as a lab; we're going to run by 'tests, mistakes'. What I remember from the state of the energy issue in Belgium at this stage is that, first, CRM is dragging. This case is getting bogged down in a worrisome way. Secondly, we find that it takes a lot of time and work to eventually extend a nuclear power plant. I conclude that we are moving quickly towards a very serious risk in terms of the country's security of supply. You will need a parliamentary majority to extend Doel 1 and 2, even if the administrative work is done. What happens if the impact study is not ready by December 31, 2022? What will the Constitutional Court say? Will it allow both power stations a period of time to operate? The question that comes to the conclusion of this debate, in my view, is: will you be able to implement the CRM, while regularising the situation of Doel 1 and 2 without threatening security of supply? If this is not the case, and I told you at our last meeting in committee, it will have to be very clear about the possible need to review our nuclear exit schedule. At some point, you'll have to stop hiding behind your little finger and say things as they are.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u20	Mr President, Mr Wollants, first of all I would like to thank you for the answer to one of my questions. Mrs Marghem, I knew that this decision had been made by your predecessor, Mr Wathelet, but I thought, or I assumed, that there was still a follow-up of cases at the firm level, or at least at the administration level, so that you could answer the question. First of all, I do not think I heard any reply from you as to the reason for the absence of an environmental impact study at the time. I still think it's pretty crazy. Mr Cogolati has already said so. There is still a question of nuclear power plants. In the general interest, it seems clear to me that there should have been an environmental impact study. That's my first point. My second point concerns risk. I note that when it comes to risk, in this committee, you, but also other colleagues, always talk about risk to security of supply. This is a legitimate concern, but it is not the only one for us. When I talk about risk, of course, I also talk about environmental risks, and even more broadly, about risks to humans. Let us not forget that we are talking about Doel 1 and 2, which are very close to the city of Antwerp. I find it a little easy to return to the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. I would point out, however, that the Committee of Inquiry into Nuclear Safety after the Chernobyl accident concluded that the Doel 1 and 2 and Tihange 1 plants were not intended to withstand heavy aircraft falls or external accidents. There was also the whole show on the cracks in these power plants. As far as security of supply is concerned, I find that again it is a little easy. The Nuclear Exit Act dates back to 2003. I have already said it here, I will continue to say it, because I find that security of supply is your responsibility, and of course that of your predecessors, who since 2003 knew that we had to prepare for the exit of nuclear power. It is obvious that such a significant change in our country's energy mix is not taking place overnight. We are five years after this law of June 2015. The problem rests. We're talking CRM. Again, the possibility of extending nuclear power plants again because, once again, nothing has been done to have the necessary capacity. Moreover, with regard to this security of supply, it is being discussed. The opinions of CREG and Elia are not consistent. CREG, at the time, was of the opinion that it was possible to close the first three nuclear reactors without the risk of blackout, as early as 2016-2017. Finally, you would have to explain to me, I do not understand very well, in relation to the 40-year period, you are talking about unlimited individual authorisation over time for power plants. I don't see why we had to make a law to extend them. However, I would like to point out that a life span exceeding 40 years in the world is exceptional. Of the 440 nuclear reactors in operation, only two are over 40 years old. The average operating period is 25 years. We therefore have very little knowledge or guarantee of large commercial reactors approaching 50 years, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for that very substantiated answer. It was indeed necessary to recall the context that prompted the legislator to finalize the Act of 28 June 2015 to deal with risks proven and attested by various independent studies on the winter of 2015-2016, which the minister reminded us of ins and outs. It was important to recall that the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN) is in charge of nuclear safety, under the auspices of the Ministry of the Interior. According to this agency, there is no proven nuclear risk. It is important to reassure the citizens in this debate and to recall that authorisation is individual, of limited duration, accompanied by a review process, every ten years and again, under the control of the AFCN. We will be paying attention as parliamentarians to the management of this issue, in particular to the carrying out of environmental impact studies, of course, by ensuring, as my colleague Van der Straeten has said, that the legal framework is updated and, more than necessary, that our country is secure in supply. I would like to hear from some Members the debate on the timetable for the release of nuclear energy. Even if this is not the question of the day, we will of course be ready to participate in this debate with always in mind this question, which is fundamental to my group, namely security of supply and the well-being of our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u22	Madam Minister, you have made it clear that a new law needs to be adopted in this House before the end of 2022. This means that we will need a parliamentary majority in order to get that law passed in Parliament. After the consultations, a lot of work was done in advance. You're voluntaristic. I think we all know that this should work, if not we will get into trouble. You referred to the previous work, but we should not underestimate the need to work with the Flemish Government, that there will obviously also be consultations abroad and that, in other words, there will be a lot of further steps to be taken. You don't have a precise calendar yet. You said that you will publish that calendar at a later date. You have also referred to the appointment of consultants by the operator and by the federal government, but I think we should be aware that all this cannot be done in an easy way. In any case, you can count on the support of our group to bring this to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u23	Colleagues, so much for our topical debate on a digital basis. I thank all the participants and the Minister for her answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u24	I propose that we now move on to the questioning. The list is long. I would therefore ask you to stick to the speaking time: two and a half minutes for the questioner, two and a half minutes for the Minister and one minute for the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u25	Mr President, in 2011 the Gas Act was amended to allow long-term storage in the underground gas storage in Loenhout. The reason was then the ambition of Statoil and Gazprom, as they were still called, to store Norwegian and Russian gas there. This was then considered by Fluxys to be a win-win situation in terms of supply. Afterwards, there were a lot of developments in the gas market, such as a further reduction in summer winter spread and the limited contracting of that storage capacity. The question is how these measures have been assessed in the meantime and what the prospects for this gas storage will be in the future. Firstly, has there been an evaluation of the adapted gas storage rules? Secondly, what long-term storage is currently taking place in Loenhout? Thirdly, what are the challenges currently facing this gas storage? How does the filling rate evolve? What opportunities can we expect in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u26	Mr Wollants, firstly, thanks to the amended gas law, long-term contracts were signed in 2012 for a maximum duration of 10 years, until April 2022. Those bookings have ensured that Loenhout was always filled at least half, even when the market for storage was not favourable due to small summer winter spreads. Gas storage can only fulfil its role if it has a sufficiently high filling rate during the winter months. I am thinking of incident management, flexibility or optimal management of the network. In 2014, an adjustment of the storage model was already approved by the CREG, following a market consultation and intensive consultation with Fluxys. At the end of October 2018, another market consultation took place with regard to the storage charges, which showed that a review of the storage model is appropriate. Following this, the CREG, in consultation with the AD Energie, asked Fluxys to produce a project paper, which will serve as a basis for the development of a new storage model for Loenhout. Secondly, there are currently four customers with long-term contracts in Loenhout. These are the two historic customers, who signed ten-year contracts in 2012, and two new customers, who signed two-year favorable summer-winter spread storage contracts in January 2020. The gas storage in Loenhout is therefore fully booked until April 2022. Thirdly, in addition to the long-term contracts, Fluxys Belgium has also been able to conclude contracts for short-term products in most years, which have ensured a good filling of the gas storage at Loenhout in recent years, although volatile summer-winter spreads have resulted in unpredictable sales for Loenhout. In addition, the market tends to buy short-term capacities and long-term contracts become rather exceptional. In addition to this volatility in price, Loenhout's gas storage has a strong competitive disadvantage as a result of other gas storage regulations in neighbouring countries. Gas storage products are typically sold through auctions, with a low reserve price, after which the shortage of revenue is covered through a remuneration on the transmission services. Gas storage facilities, and for Belgium more specifically the storage at Loenhout, bring more social benefits • flexibility for the market, optimal management of the gas network, incident management • for an energy system than only those covered by the market value. In order to guarantee in the long term all the benefits of a local gas storage site, not least in the context of the energy transition, it is necessary to ensure that the future of Loenhout is assured. This is done by developing a model that can continue to offer these benefits, even with spreads showing higher volatility. The FPS Economy, the CREG and Fluxys Belgium are studying the operations of the current model. The current model does not allow Fluxys Belgium to tailor its service offering to market-based prices. This study is likely to lead to adjustments to the commercial gas storage model in Loenhout in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u27	Madam Secretary, I think it is a good thing that we are looking at it thoroughly. I am particularly looking forward to the results of this project paper and the discussions. I think you are right when you say that the connection of Loenhout to the gas grid brings a number of advantages that we must not let slip out of our hands. I am particularly looking forward to the way that will happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u28	Mr Wollants, my administration is working to amend the Royal Decree to take account of the entry into force of the new European standards on boilers and thus clarify the provisions of the Royal Decree that remain in force. The list of aircraft is based on the Royal Decree. My administration is looking at the extent to which these lists can be retained in order to organise market surveillance. The amendments to the Royal Decree are expected in my cabinet by the end of the semester. My administration has launched a study on the evolution of heating techniques in order to meet the goals of decarbonisation and the reduction of emissions of air pollutants by 2050. It will assess the contribution of the heating and biomass sectors to NOx and particulate emissions. It may be justified to speed up the entry into force of certain parts of the Regulation. The results would be presented in September 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u29	Madam Secretary, it would be a good thing to have a thorough look at the KB. After all, there have been some difficulties in getting that operational and keeping it up to date. I think that list is a story from the past. In the meantime, very different standards are being put forward at European level, and I think that we need to identify them. If we can take steps that are positive for air quality, and in this way we can, for example, strengthen the climate effort of the regions, then that does not seem to me to be a stupid idea, which is why I am certainly looking forward to the steps that will be taken in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u30	Madam Minister, on 21 January, the European Parliament's Committee on the Environment adopted a resolution opposing the European Commission's proposal to restrict the use and presence of lead and its components in articles produced from PVC – a large-scale synthetic plastic – setting a maximum concentration of lead at 0.1% of the weight of PVC material. The majority of Members of the European Parliament felt that "the proposed changes did not sufficiently protect human health and the environment, the main objective of the REACH Regulation", as the European Commission wants to introduce two derogations for recycled PVC materials for a period of 15 years. One of these derogations allowing the concentration of lead up to 2 % of the weight of rigid PVC and the other 1 % of the weight of flexible/flexible PVC. It is well known that lead is indeed a toxic substance which can have serious health consequences, and in particular cause irreversible neurological damage, even at small doses, as the Committee on the Environment recalled in a press release. The latter considered that – and I quote – "the levels proposed by the European Commission did not correspond to safe levels", while stressing that there were alternatives to PVC. Minister, do you support the European Commission's proposal in its entirety, including the two derogations in question? Could you share your analysis on the subject with us? Do you think that recycling can justify the continued use of hazardous substances and that it has priority over prevention in terms of public health?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u31	Mr President, in this committee – and this is the usual lot – there are very technical answers that are issued by my administration and to which I obviously agree. If you think that the time is far exceeded, I would pass on the written text – with the consent of the honourable Member asking the question. But in this case, I see an answer that is relatively important and that I will begin to deliver. Belgium abstained from voting on this text in the REACH Committee. The legislation did not seem to us to be successful, as it contained gaps that could make it uncontrollable and potentially lead to contamination of products by unprocessed exemptions in the closed circuit. While Belgium supports a strict limit concentration of lead content in PVC and PVC articles, through a restriction under the REACH Regulation, it cannot adhere to the arrangements provided for in the proposal for exemption of certain articles, although these are clearly defined in the proposal. The Belgian statement put to the vote in committee presents our detailed argument and points out the following shortcomings of the committee's proposal: "We consider that derogations allowing concentrations higher than those of virgin materials, in recycled substances, mixtures or articles, can only be granted if the following four conditions are strictly met to achieve a closed loop, i.e. a closed loop: 1. no additional emissions; 2. labelling requirements for contaminated materials; 3. recycling scheme for contaminated materials which must be organised on the basis of closed systems; 4. the measure must be limited in time to reconsider the effects of the entry into force of the exemption and readjustment if necessary." The above elements are not reached in the committee's proposal. Indeed, emissions may appear during the reprocessing of recycled materials, in the long term, as there is no labelling measure for closed systems, etc. In addition, some industrial players, including Belgian actors, have committed themselves to certifications to ensure circulation of the PVC materials used. We believe that these actors will be negatively affected if the binding and necessary conditions do not apply. It seems to us that these sector commitments are key to ensuring the objectives of efficiency. Emissions are also likely for articles composed of flexible PVC material which will benefit from an exception for five years from the obligation to protect against the emission of lead contained in PVC, which will be mandatory for other articles subject to derogation. Furthermore, with regard to this obligation as a layer of protection and despite the fact that Belgium has obtained that it is ensured in the principle of product life, we believe that the controls cannot be effective, given the absence of technical or standard constraints for the various articles and uses. Furthermore, the absence of separate collection and treatment options for the flow of articles with a high lead content may lead to dilution of hazardous waste in the flow of other waste, which is contrary to the principle of good waste management. Furthermore, contrary to ECHA's assumption in its analysis file, Annex 15, for this restriction, we believe that the proposal may eventually generate more incineration if the flow of materials remains contaminated as producers prefer the use of virgin materials. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u32	Mr. Chair, I just want to thank the minister for her response, which converges with our concerns. We will follow this file carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u33	I saw Mrs. Hanus' hand rise. Mrs Hanus, exceptionally, you have the floor for a question on how we work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u34	I hope you can hear me. I wrote a note in the group conversation so that everyone could learn about the proposal I wanted to make. Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the opportunity to speak during the debate. I propose a mode of operation for the questions of today's sitting in view of the many questions. Yesterday in the Mobility Committee, each Member, when he had the floor, brought together all of his questions, so that he could move forward more effectively. Would it be possible to adopt the same functioning today? The minister would answer later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u35	Do any colleagues want to make comments on this? The proposal is that all questions should be put consecutively by the Member of Parliament. Then the Minister gives all the answers to those questions. Do colleagues have any comments on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u36	In itself, I am uninhibited with the proposal. But what if there are issues on which several Members have questions? Suppose I raise a subject and Mrs Van der Straeten does the same at another time, when will the Minister reply? How are we gonna organize this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u37	Mr President, this may be a good method, but we are not prepared for it. I have questions on different subjects and I am not prepared to do so. If we don't get to the end of the list, we'll have another time to continue. I don't know what time we can go today. I may be able to speak less, but I would like to ask my questions one by one.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u38	Mr President, in order to understand my colleague's proposal, all our questions are grouped together and the minister answers all our questions and we are then released. Is that it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u39	That is Mrs Hanus' proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u40	Yesterday in committee, each Member presented all of his questions at one time and the Minister answered all the questions at the end. It's for the fluidity of everyone's speeches.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u41	We must wait until the commission ends to be released, and that is problematic.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u42	Or maybe we can proceed like Mr. Ben Achour proposes it. I don't think that's a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u43	Mr President, to be concrete, everyone has a lot of activities. If we turn the oral questions into written questions, can we get the answer very quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u44	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u45	Mr President, I propose to turn my questions Nos 55003742C and 55004858C into written questions to move the debate forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u46	Mr. Chair, if we ask all our questions and the minister answers at the end of the meeting, that means we're stuck throughout the session. Maybe the minister will have to leave before she can answer. I turned my question number 55003351C into a question written to save time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u47	Thank you, Mrs Hanus, for your proposal. I can see that some of my colleagues have problems with this. Then there is the problem of the merged questions on the same subject. Then how are we gonna fix that? The services also note that it was often on the same subject in the Mobility Committee. There are a lot of different topics here. Today we are not prepared for it either. For a next meeting, we may be able to look at this proposal, if we still have to meet digitally. Now I wouldn't do it. We're gonna make things too complicated this way. I also refer to colleagues who now assume that they will have to ask their questions only at the end of the sitting and should now suddenly be available more quickly. Mrs. Hanus, thank you for your proposal. I propose to continue working as planned today. For another session, we may be able to work as you proposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u48	Minister, this beginning of 2020 is conducive to the publication of the 2019 balance sheets. To this end, the League of Human Rights published its annual report on the state of fundamental rights in Belgium on 31 January. This paper highlights the findings that the authors call "environmental injustices" and points to certain climatic measures, affirming that they increase inequalities within our society. Among the public policies targeted are "tax deductions, premiums and subsidies granted for the purchase of solar panels, electric cars, and for the improvement of the energy performance of housing". These measures would benefit mainly those with high incomes and capital, and therefore few people in precarious conditions. The analysis also mentions fuel taxation, and specifies that the carbon tax would be between three and five times less in the income of the so-called "favoured" classes than in those of the popular classes. Following these overwhelming findings, the League of Human Rights proposes two hypothetical solutions to reduce the inequalities generated. One would be a public investment in the isolation of social housing, thereby reducing their energy impact and strengthening the right to decent housing for disadvantaged classes. The alternative would involve a kerosene tax. It is clear that the transition to a sustainable society and the solutions to combat global warming have a cost. This cannot be done solely on the shoulders of the citizen and, above all, not on the least favoured households. Thus, in addition to policies to isolate public housing, my group supports the development of a kerosene tax at European level, but with the ultimate aim of financing measures to combat global warming. Minister, what is your analysis of the findings of the Human Rights League in its last report? Do you support the solutions proposed by the latter? Otherwise, what are you proposing to put in place to address these inequalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u49	Dear colleague, the annual report on the state of fundamental rights in Belgium, published on 31 January by the League of Human Rights, identifies various forms of environmental injustice, including the inequalities generated by measures taken and implemented to mitigate climate change. It is true that, if poorly designed, some policies aimed at mitigating climate change are likely to reinforce existing social inequalities or create new forms of inequality. In order to ensure a fair transition, it is essential to ensure that the policies implemented do not threaten fundamental rights or further increase social inequalities and, on the contrary, contribute to reducing them. In this context, it is necessary to understand the social impact of climate policies through assessments and, where appropriate, to provide compensation measures for vulnerable households. My administration has already conducted this type of analysis, particularly during the national debate on carbon pricing, which, you will remember, I initiated in 2017. It is clear, however, that further efforts are needed to jointly analyse climate and social issues, particularly in the context of the transition to climate neutrality by 2050. In this context, it therefore seems appropriate to initiate, as soon as possible, the national dialogue on the just transition to a climate-neutral society provided for in the National Energy-Climate Plan (NECP). This dialogue with all political actors (authorities and stakeholders) will be supported by an analysis of the positive and negative effects of the transition to a climate neutral society. In particular, it will focus on identifying policy leads. I would like to stress that the Clean Energy for All Europeans package provides for an active and important role in the transition for citizens' energy communities. This should contribute to the democratisation of our energy system and allow all citizens to participate in the transition, but also to benefit from it. In other words, while the energy transition poses a risk of increasing inequality, it also offers opportunities for democratisation. The Belgian PNEC plans several projects and initiatives to implement this principle at Belgian level. The report of the League of Human Rights also points to certain specific measures, including subsidies and other benefits granted to encourage sustainable behaviour - you mentioned this - stating that they rarely benefit people from disadvantaged social classes. At present, it is mainly the Regions that develop and implement such measures. At the federal level, the PNEC is planning tax reforms, on the one hand, to promote sustainable mobility and intermodality and, on the other hand, to stimulate renovation and improve the energy efficiency of buildings. Social aspects will of course have to be taken into account in the development of these reforms. The report also criticizes the carbon tax on fuel, arguing that this measure tends to disproportionately affect poor households. I want to nuance that point. In the context of the national debate on carbon pricing mentioned above, we have analysed the social impacts of carbon pricing and identified a series of compensatory measures to be implemented when such a system is introduced. We have also shown that if the full income of carbon pricing is redistributed through a lump sum payment, the impact on the incomes of the poorest households would be generally positive. This work is continuing with a view to achieving a socially fair carbon pricing as soon as possible. Finally, in its report, the League is in favour of two climate change mitigation policies, namely a public investment in the isolation of social housing and a kerosene tax. The first measure is certainly necessary for this purpose, but also in order to combat energy insecurity. According to the King Baudouin Foundation, this last problem particularly affects social tenants. On the other hand, the European implementation of a kerosene tax is an interesting avenue to be explored further, in particular in the context of the national debate on the just transition mentioned above. In addition, at the Environment Council of the European Union on 5 March 2019, Belgium called on the new European Commission to promote a legislative proposal to this end. This appeal was reiterated last November by my colleague De Croo, who signed a joint statement by the finance ministers of eight other EU Member States: Bulgaria, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Sweden. The Belgian PNEC also provides for the introduction of fiscal measures to integrate the environmental externalities of the aviation sector. In conclusion, although they are interesting avenues, the two policies proposed by the League and supported by your group will not be sufficient to ensure the transition to climate neutrality in 2050. They will have to be considered as part of a much wider mix of public policy instruments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u50	Madam Minister, thank you. It is a fact – both in Belgium and internationally – that the most fragile families are the first victims of climate change. They are also the ones who are least able to protect themselves from it. I heard your concern. You pointed out that our measures seem to you to be insufficient. In any case, we are pleased that others are being expressed. In addition, we will also propose new ones. However, it is important to ensure that the cost of transition is not borne primarily by these people. Climate justice and social justice go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u51	Mr. Chair, Minister, I have had to adjust the context of my first question, because since it was drafted, the VOCID-19 and all containment measures have shown us a drastic drop in greenhouse gas emissions. We should, moreover, no doubt take advantage of this opportunity to adopt more "slow" consumption patterns and support new work organisations, such as the telework we are adopting today. My fear, Minister, is that after the VOCID, we will return to the same hyper-productivist neoliberal regain that is harmful to our environment and the climate. Indeed, the climate.be site indicates that our greenhouse gas emissions increased in 2018, that is, when our model was running at full speed outside the containment period, reaching 118.3 megatonnes of CO2 equivalents, an increase of 0.28% compared to 2017, CO2 emissions, closely related to energy consumption, having increased by 0.63%. Therefore, Madam Minister, let me ask you the following questions. What is your analysis of this increase in greenhouse gas emissions in our country in 2018? What are the reasons for this increase? Are you planning to put in place policies to limit emissions from transportation, including freight and increased SUVs on our roads? Are you also aware that with a rate of only 9% of renewable energy in 2018, Belgium's energy efficiency ambition is "too low", as the European Commission recalled? How do you respond to that, when we are expected to reach 13% of green energy this year, in 2020? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u52	Madam Member, although we have the latest data, the national inventory report, which analyses trends, is not yet available. It is expected on 15 March and its final version will be available on 15 April, so today. Perhaps you should come back to me on this, because the answer to your question of 10 February was obviously written before 15 March. I'll read it to you. The only information we have is on methodological adjustments that have led to upward estimates of our emissions, including mainly for fluorinated gases in the industrial sector, as well as revisions related to energy balances. The additional measures of the PNEC should, in principle, allow us to influence this trend and achieve our objectives in the transport, building and agriculture sectors, i.e. those non-ETS sectors for which a national objective exists. However, these measures must be translated operationally. In addition, in the context of raising climate ambition at European level by 2030, as foreseen in the European Green Pact, we must plan to further strengthen these measures and even adopt others. With regard to transport, the PNEC foresees that an inter-federal agreement on mobility will be concluded by 1 January 2021 on the basis of a consultation between the Federal State and the Regions on specific subjects such as public transport, transport taxation, etc., on which an inter-federal agreement is absolutely necessary in order to be able to implement the measures included in the plan throughout the territory. On the federal side, we see this agreement as having to be based on a vision of inter-federal mobility to be developed beforehand, but for the moment this vision has not received the support of the Flemish Region. On the other hand, the federal government will use the levers at its disposal and its contribution to transport within the framework of the PNEC through very important measures such as a new assessment and possible adjustment of the framework for company cars, parafiscal or fiscal measures to promote sustainable mobility, substantial investments in rail transport and other measures that you have read in the PNEC by which we plan to make our transport more sustainable and decarbonize them, in dialogue with the Regions. As regards renewable energy, the target, as expressed in relation to Belgium's gross final energy consumption, is 13% in 2020. You know that. In 2018, we were 9.4%. A planned trajectory took into account a sharp increase between 2018 and 2020, for the reason you know that is the implementation of the last three offshore parks that are being carried out by this government and that will be operational in 2020. At the federal level, this will therefore be the federal contribution to the overall Belgian target of 13%, which I have just mentioned. With regard to energy efficiency, the federal government has a number of levers, for example fiscal ones, that can accompany other regional policies. And, of course, I continue to examine the possible proposals made by my regional colleagues and to consider all the options available to ensure that everyone fulfils their responsibilities in this context in order to achieve the objective. In fact, there is still discussion in Parliament – and I do not know if you have decided to regroup these issues – proposals for legislation that deal with the circular economy and repairability that pursue this objective. For 2019, the first provisional estimates will only be available by 31 July 2020. As regards the regional inventories for 2018, they were to be published from 15 March. I didn't check. I ask you to do so and return to me with additional questions related to the review of these documents. With respect to the national compilation between regional inventories and the federal inventory, I am not in a position to determine whether or not these three inventories are experiencing similar trends in the various sectors. That is why I invite you to come back to me so that on your side and on my side we can examine these newly published documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u53	Madam Minister, thank you for the various elements of your response. You will of course be able to count on me to continue to question the matter. For our part, you can count on us to make proposals that will continue to move towards a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u54	Question No 55003351C by Mr Vicar is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u55	Mr De Vuyst is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u56	Mr President, Minister, some of my questions date from two months ago, i.e. the corona crisis, when the Green Deal and the European climate law were in full interest. A number of main lines of the Green Deal were already proposed at that time. The details, however, only reach us in a small way. In view of the current crisis situation, in my first question on the No Deal, I would like to ask you in particular about the current state of affairs and the impact of the corona crisis. How does the corona crisis affect the Green Deal? What is Belgium's formal position vis-à-vis the Green Deal? Allow me to have my doubts. Just last week, a group of Member States called on the European Commission to put the European Green Deal at the heart of the post-corona recovery plans. Belgium abstained from the appeal because the N-VA and Flemish climate minister Zuhal Demir vetoed it. What level of ambition does Belgium defend in the context of the European Green Deal? Does Belgium support the ambition of a 55% reduction by 2030?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u57	Mr President, Minister, I too have a question about the Green Deal, which I wanted to ask at the beginning of March 2020. Due to lack of time, the question was postponed. However, it remains topical, because it deals with the intra-Belgian distribution of the Just Transition Fund (JTF). You stated in committee on 11 February 2020 that there were no intra-Belgian agreements regarding the distribution of the potential EUR 68 million from the JTF. The European Commission's proposal was then analysed. However, as early as January 2020, the proposal dealt with the issue of the European Semester. However, on 26 February 2020, the European Commission formally advised for the time being. The European Commission's analysis shows that the regions of Tournai, you know, Bergen and Charleroi, would benefit most from the aid. This would be where the most intensive industrial emissions of greenhouse gases would be recorded. Hainaut also remains a region in industrial transition, with relatively high unemployment. The European Commission's opinion says: "On the basis of this preliminary evaluation, it seems justified to concentrate the funds on this region." Madam Minister, about two months ago there was a meeting of the Consultative Committee on climate-related issues. Have you had any other contacts at Belgian level? I would have liked to have some more detailed explanation of the figures showing that the most intensive industrial emissions of greenhouse gases are recorded in Hainaut. I would also like to ask you what exactly is the further procedure regarding the Just Transition Fund for the following months at intra-Belgian level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u58	Madam Minister, this dossier is not new and questions have been put to the Prime Minister in the meantime. So our questions may be somewhat dated. On 11 February, you already gave detailed answers to questions about the Just Transition Fund. At that time, you argued that all regions should combine their strengths consistently. You also said that consultation was needed for the use of the Just Transition Fund's resources. Is there any further consultation between the European Commission and Belgium? What exactly is the Belgian position? Is there still no Belgian position? The Just Transition Fund is only part of the Just Transition Mechanism, which in turn is part of the Green Deal. There are also other funding resources and funds, such as the Innovation Fund. How can the regions combine their efforts consistently so that each region and the federal government can make the most of the opportunities? Which consultative bodies are used for this purpose? In the design of MFF 2021-2027, the resources of the Just Transition Fund will be linked to having a national climate neutrality target by 2050. Belgium does not currently have this objective. Will Belgium set such an objective if the financial resources of the Just Transition Fund become dependent on it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question and an answer that date back. It all goes back to mid-February. I see I have two answers for Mrs Van der Straeten. My answer is relatively long, I would like to give you the whole of it, but I propose that for the second part of the answer which concerns only Mrs Van der Straeten and the subdivisions in the just transition fund, I send her the answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u60	There's no problem if it can happen today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u61	No problem. As regards the Belgian position, an ad hoc consultation of DGE took place on 21 February between the Cabinets and the Administrations to record some general messages, so that a coherent message can be kept in the four different filières and Council formations. Belgium supports the Green Deal and recognises that an integrated, transversal and coherent approach is the key to making the Green Deal a success story. Ensuring policy coherence by aligning our climate, biodiversity and environmental objectives in all policy areas and strategies is essential for a successful transition. As regards the follow-up of the various files under the Green Deal, a coordination table was examined during the DGE consultation which identified the filières and consultative bodies to be involved in the respective dossiers. Positions on specific dossiers will then be further developed according to work at the European level. As far as the level of ambition for climate action by 2030 is concerned, we agreed at the European level in October 2014 to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030 compared to 1990 levels. It is important to note that this objective dates from before the Paris Agreement. For Belgium, it has always been clear that the European Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC), commitments under the Paris Agreement, could be revised. The new European directives on renewable energy and energy efficiency have already de facto increased the European level of ambition and the scenarios that the Commission set out towards climate neutrality by 2040 exceed the current targets by 2030. The Commission von der Leyen states that it intends to increase the objectives to at least 50% and 55% in a responsible manner. The federal government is defending something that Parliament has already expressed in its resolution on the repositioning of Belgium in the climate debate of 20 December 2018, in particular the European target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990. The Brussels and Walloon governments are on the same lines and included this objective in their government agreements. I would like to reiterate that eight Member States, namely France, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Denmark and Latvia, have recently made an explicit appeal to European Commissioner Frans Timmermans to raise the 2030 target to at least 55%. It is essential to reach an agreement quickly on our European 2030 target. Belgium has consistently stressed that the five-year cycle of ambition is an essential element in the architecture of the Paris Agreement and that the EU must fully subscribe to the process in order to make a positive contribution to international dynamics. I therefore believe that it is necessary for the European Commission to come forward with its proposal quickly. As early as November 2018, in its Talanoa Declaration, the Benelux called on the European Commission to examine options for increasing the European climate objectives by 2030 as soon as possible. This was again cited by Belgium at the Environment Council in July 2019. However, the Commission is not planning to publish its proposal until September, which would seriously hypothesize the likelihood of an intra-European agreement. For the financing of the Just Transition Fund, the European Commission proposes a budget of EUR 7.5 billion. Negotiations on the multiannual financial framework within which the financing of the Just Transmission Fund will be regulated are currently difficult. In Belgium, it is the responsibility of the financial filière to coordinate the second and third pillars of the Just Transition Mechanism, while the first pillar, the Just Transition Fund, is linked to cohesion policy and therefore the regions are in the cockpit. Of course, I will see to it that the environmental ministers and administrations are adequately involved in the definition of the position. Indeed, the proposed link between the national objective of climate neutrality by 2050 and the release of the fully allocated financial resources from the Just Transition Fund is important for funding. I can tell you in advance that the Consultation Committee, when it adopted the long-term strategy, also committed itself to "updating the national long-term strategy, which is a minimum commitment, at regular intervals," thus confirming the "common will to strive for carbon neutrality." Moreover, the discussions at European level on the different elements of the European Green Deal, including climate law, and the increase in the 2030 targets will change the context of our strategy and may require an update of the national strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u62	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I must honestly admit that the technology has failed in these somewhat strange meeting conditions, so I did not hear your answer very well, especially when you answered the question whether or not Belgium supports the ambition of a 55 percent reduction by 2030. Can you repeat that part of your answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u63	I will wait for the replies and then make the ad hoc replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u64	The Minister will answer later. Do you have any other elements of reply, Mrs Daems?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u65	Madam Secretary, if I understood correctly, did you not say anything about the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u66	No, the problem is next. As I said at the outset, the question that you asked and then adapted in the circumstances, which I understand very well, was answered four days after you asked it. And I have no adaptation, except for Mrs Van der Straeten who asked her second question later. For her, I have a particular answer; she asks for details of the various subdivisions of the transition fund. I have a specific answer to that. I have agreed with her to transmit it to her in writing this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u67	Madam Secretary, I understand that you cannot answer this now. I just want to say that the recovery plans for the corona crisis must be social and ecological. Now is the time to strengthen and accelerate the Green Deal. We must not weaken our ambitions. That's really not an option. For us, the social Green Deal must be at the heart of the recovery plans. I was gonna give that to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u68	Madam Minister, if you'll excuse me, I'm also a little confused because I didn't get an answer to a number of very specific questions. Maybe you could get me those in writing? As I understand it, the Just Transition Fund was discussed at the Consultation Committee on 19 February. It has been found that this is within European cohesion policy, with the regions playing a very important role. The Flemish level took note of the European Commission's opinion on intra-Belgian distribution. So there was a lot of show by the Flemish government in the press, but they finally accept it, although there was very heavy criticism of, among other things, the methodology used in the European context. Can you say anything more about the procedure to be followed in the next few months with regard to the JTF?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u69	Mrs Daems, the discussions at European level on the various elements of the European Green Deal, among which is climate law and the rise of 2030 ambitions, will change, in addition to the context of our strategy, and will require an update of our national strategy. I said this earlier in Dutch, at the end of my answer. I'm translating it to make it clear to everyone. Mr Ravyts, you are absolutely right, the answers I have here do not take into account your specific request for the consultation committee of 19 February. I must give you a further reply, which I will send you at the beginning of next week, in writing, if I may.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u70	Mr President, Minister, I look forward to the written reply this afternoon. What is very important to me in this story is that we in this country need to realize that we have Regions and a federal government and that we have each of our own needs and concerns that can be addressed in different ways. It doesn't make much sense to catch each other flying over who gets what now, but it's important to strengthen each other. Where there are areas in Wallonia where there is still an industrial transition to take place because they are still heavily carbon intensive, Flanders, especially in the Antwerp port, has a petrochemical that must also continue to undergo a heavy transition, but which will be more supported by innovation. There are various tools within Europe and within the framework of the Green Deal to respond to the various needs. If we do not work together in this country, we will miss these joint opportunities. I think lurking at each other and watching who says what and who gets what is a huge waste of time. It is more important that we should be able to buy more time, that we should be able to grow stronger as a country, and that we should be able to identify each other's needs and questions and then find the right solutions. We could then come to a common position, which would also prevent us from going to European meetings without a common position. I'm sure the corona crisis has shown that we can work together. Look at the initiatives that are now in place for the local production of mouth masks, where the regions and the federal government do find each other. That is also possible for the Green Deal, if our visor is sufficiently open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u71	Mr President, Minister, this question was tabled twice, once by me and once by Mrs Daems. Mrs Daems will ask the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u72	Mr President, Minister, on 31 December 2019 Belgium should have submitted a first draft of the long-term strategy for a climate-neutral Belgium to the European Commission by 2050. However, this submission was delayed. On 11 February, De Standaard published another article stating that Belgium intends to present a strategy without quantified climate targets. The first version of the NEKP has already been heavily criticised by the European Commission for lack of integration and coherence. It seems that the long-term strategy will have the same shortcomings. What is the status of the long-term strategy? Will the long-term strategy have quantified climate targets and if so, which ones? Will the federal government present its own strategy as part of the national strategy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u73	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns once again the meeting of the Consultation Committee on 19 February 2020. There an agreement was reached on the long-term climate strategy. In fact, and I have to say in part that Mrs Daems is right there, it amounts to a merger of federal and regional plans, in which there is little coherence. For the whole country it amounts to a decrease of 85% to 87%. My very brief question is specifically about the regular updating and the minimal commitment. In fact, you have already answered a little in your previous reply, to a question from Mrs Daems. What is meant by minimal commitment and updating the long-term strategy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u74	Mr President, Minister, this question has long been on the agenda and concerns a meeting of the Consultative Committee which took place a long time ago. We have already discussed this subject a number of times in this committee, including on 11 February. Firstly, at the meeting of the Consultation Committee on 19 February, the link was made between the MFF and the long-term strategy and the need to re-evaluate the objective in the light of any resources dependent on it, for example as regards the Just Transition Fund? I believe that you have just answered this and that you said that the link between objectives and resources for Belgium is really important. Secondly, what are the next steps in rolling out and implementing the long-term strategy? Thirdly, has there been a consultation between Belgium and the European Commission on the final National Energy and Climate Plan, not on the long-term strategy but on the 2030 plan? What is the state of this? Fourthly, how will the National Energy and Climate Plan be rolled out and followed up?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, I can confirm that the Belgian long-term strategy was indeed adopted at the meeting of the Consultation Committee on 19 February. The document will be sent to the European Commission in the near future. However, the Belgian long-term strategy sets a target for sectors that are not part of the European emissions trading system, the non-ETS sectors. This corresponds to a reduction of 85 % to 87 % in 2050 compared to 2005, which translates into an emission level of between 10 and 12 megatons of CO2 equivalent in 2050. These figures are the result of the sum of the objectives included in the strategies developed by the three regions, taking into account that the Flemish Region has not adopted a reduction target for the sectors covered by the ETS. For the ETS sectors, Belgium is registering, within the context defined by Europe, with a falling emission area under the EU ETS. The federal level does not have its own percentage reduction target, as all Belgian greenhouse gas emissions are captured by regional emissions. The long-term strategy refers to the vision document drawn up by the federal administration as input for the Belgian long-term strategy. In my answer to parliamentary questions no. 55003041C and no. 55003057C, I have already had the opportunity to give you details of the measures and projects inspired by this study and which bind the federal government since they are part of the national strategy now approved by the Concertation Committee and in advance by the Council of Ministers of the Federal Government. The Belgian strategy also indicates that this should not be seen as an end point. The commitment has been taken to provide pathways and to further discuss the strategy with the public, various stakeholders and experts involved over the coming months and years, and to further underpin and develop it where necessary. It is therefore from this perspective that the outcome of the Consultation Committee should be seen. The objectives set out in the strategy are minimum objectives which will need to be adjusted upwards. The Consultation Committee discussed the link between the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) and the long-term strategy. The fact that we could get more resources if we increased our ambition is certainly an incentive. Therefore, the Consultation Committee undertakes to update this national long-term strategy, which is a minimum commitment, at regular intervals and thus confirms the common will to strive for carbon neutrality. The discussions at European level on the various elements of the Green Deal, including climate law and the increase in the 2030 targets, lead us to move forward in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u76	Madam Minister, you say that the federal level has not provided for its own percentage reduction targets in the long-term strategy. I find that very special. The federal government has important levers in the transition to a low carbon society, in particular in the areas of energy, mobility, taxation and public investment. Surely you cannot shift all responsibility to the Regions. You also have the power to take action. I find that very striking and unfortunate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u77	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for clarifying the notion of minimum commitment. I thought that was a little silylinized. If I understand correctly, we are talking about minimum targets which, in your view, need to be increased for a number of reasons that you have listed. In any case, I note that even the implementation of the NEKP will require an inter-federal agreement on mobility. You have just confirmed this in your answer to another colleague's question. I am therefore curious about the further progress and will follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u78	Madam Minister, the fact that the federal government does not have its own objectives because greenhouse emissions fall within regional competence is, of course, not new. I think it is the third time that this has been discussed in this committee. I am still a little hungry with my questions about the state of play of the National Energy and Climate Plan. The European Commission's analysis of whether that plan meets the conditions and requirements of the Climate Regulation is normally expected by September. It's common practice for conversations to precede that. I therefore propose that we return to that at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u79	Question No 55003450C by Mrs Leroy is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u80	Mr President, Question No 55004881C by Mr Verduyckt dealt with the same subject. I will pass on to Mrs Leroy the written version of my answer and, if Mr Verduyckt wishes to ask her question, I am obviously at her disposal to answer it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u81	If these two questions are indeed linked, I suggest that Mr Verduyckt now asks his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u82	I will put the question briefly, but it has actually already been asked. I'd like to have an update. On a proposal from Mr Van der Straeten, the relevant law was adopted in plenary. The Minister must act on this now and, according to my information, that has not yet happened. What is stopping you and what timing can we expect?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u83	Our committee is currently dealing with a proposal for a law on the financing of social funds for gas and electricity. That's the answer to your question. There is a need for agreement on this in order to be able to free up available funds, in accordance with the working method described in this proposal. I believe that Mrs van der Straeten is particularly aware of the matter. That's how things stand from my point of view. Maybe your college, Mrs. Van der Straeten, can say more.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u84	In the meantime, we have received the advice of the CREG and the Court of Auditors on the legislative proposal, as tabled. We will have to make some adjustments, in line with those opinions. We will then be able to discuss this here, Mr President, during our legislative work, given that it is a proposal that has been given the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u85	That's right. We'll meet next week when we'll deal with that. Mr Verduyckt, would you like to reply to both ladies?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u86	I look forward to the sequel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u87	Mr President, Minister, in the context of COOVID-19, the problem of illegal bushmeat is emerging again. The new coronavirus is linked to a zoonotic infection, which is thus transmitted from animal to human. In the case of COVID-19, one thinks of bats with possible scales as an intermediate host in order to reach man. It probably has to do with a market where these wild species are sold from tropical forests. The regular transmission of germs from wild animals to humans is not surprising. In many countries it is customary to put such exotic species on the menu or to assign certain medicinal properties to it. This is a problem in China, but also in Africa, where there is trade in endangered species. Our country, too, is now playing a role in this. A recent report, presented at the Dead or Alive conference: Towards a Sustainable Wildlife Trade, shows that around 44 tons of bushmeat pass by Zaventem airport each year. That brousse meat comes from West and Central Africa. 44 tons is not minus. Of these, only 480 kilos were seized; 17 kilos were analysed and 12 kilos turned out to be bushmeat. The report showed that germs were found in that meat, including African swine fever. The problem is not so much that germs can travel along, but that when these animals are treated or slaughtered in the countries of origin there may be transfers from animals to humans, which can lead to epidemics as we have seen with the corona virus, but also with the SARS virus and the Ebola virus. Madam Secretary, what measures are in place to discourage the import of bushmeat? Following last December's report, did you propose additional measures? In what way does cooperation with customs and the BFSA take place in relation to bushmeat? Is there a structural consultation in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u88	Mr President, Minister, when I submitted this question, the corona virus was indeed still an exotic virus. Today, unfortunately, the situation is completely different. As Mr Gijbels says, a lot of bushmeat enters our country. Madam Minister, you attended a conference on this subject in December. I would like to go over the four main recommendations of the sector at that time. Firstly, it was said that we need more information on this phenomenon, as well as on trade and consumption in our country. Secondly, we need better coordination of knowledge and cooperation at different levels. That is an absolute necessity. The third point raised was that we need to strengthen the enforcement capacity of our border controls. This is not only about the number of people but also about, for example, the development of sufficient space for those people. Finally, awareness among the general public and politicians must really be strengthened. This strengthening of awareness must even be achieved by the services responsible for monitoring it, namely customs, police and justice. That is why I have the following questions. My first question is the same as the previous speaker. What actions are being taken today? What is your opinion on the recommendations in particular? Are you doing anything with it? What is possible in this respect? Finally, do you believe that the current legislation gives us sufficient instruments to act decisively against this form of trade?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as discussed at the conference in December 2019, illegal bushmeat should be addressed in legal terms on the basis of two laws, one on the basis and the other on a complementary basis. European animal health legislation is currently the reference legislation to prohibit and control imports of tame or wild meat. The BFSA, together with the customs authorities, is competent to carry out that check. It is the BFSA that, if necessary, must draw up a report of infringement and impose an administrative penalty on illegally imported meat, including for bushmeat. I therefore suggest that you contact my fellow Minister for Agriculture for more information. In addition to that basic legislation, CITES environmental legislation on endangered species comes into force. It may be invoked to sanction any additional infringement, such as the import of bushmeat from a species threatened by CITES. The illegal import of bushmeat from a species not threatened by CITES is currently not covered by federal environmental law. It is therefore not possible at present to take legal action in the environmental field for that type of bushmeat. In this context, I asked my administration to examine, on the basis of the Law on Nature Conservation, the possibility of legally penalising imports of all types of bushmeat and not just the meat of a species threatened by CITES. As far as the auditors are concerned, my administration participates in certain BACON actions organised by the BFSA to detect, among other things, bushmeat among the imported meat, in particular of the species threatened by CITES. The conference I organised in December 2019 clearly demonstrated the urgent need to address the problem of bushmeat imports into the European Union in a cross-cutting manner. Indeed, we note that the various challenges posed by bushmeat go beyond pure environmental challenges. Moreover, the resources and the legal levers are not only in environmental legislation and administration, but also in other sectors. An overall strategy for illegal meat imports, thus linking human health, animal health and environmental health, is urgently needed. An effective control system for illegal imports of bushmeat is only possible by displaying these bands. First of all, we need to obtain more information in order to gain a better understanding of possible links between the different European-level tramps. National initiatives must therefore be complemented with a European perspective, all the more so as animal health legislation is concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u90	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You're not the first person I've asked this question to. I have already asked Minister De Croo and Minister Ducarme before the Corona virus. They refer to you or the other minister. It is clear that this matter has different aspects, but it is important that action is taken here. We are now faced with a policy of tolerance. We show far too little that we do not accept that so much bushmeat can enter our country unhindered. I would like to hear you say that this requires a European approach. I hope that you will be able to convince your colleagues from the other EU countries to take part in this together. Someone's gonna have to pull this. I suggest that you pay due attention to this in the light of biodiversity and the preservation of ecosystems in the countries of origin. I hope that not only will there be an awareness very soon, but that we will also send a very clear signal to the countries of origin that we will be very strict when we catch bushmeat.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u91	Madam Minister, there are indeed several aspects to this problem. Today, of course, the health aspect is very important, while biodiversity is also threatened by this trade. I can imagine that several ministers, as well as the European level, are involved in this. It is important, however, that an initiative be taken now. After all, it is often said: never waste a good crisis. I'm really convinced that people will be more attentive from now on. After the corona crisis, our lives will not be exactly the same as before, in the future we will deal with certain things differently. If people realise the risks of these products, they will be more resistant to them. There will therefore be support for measures. Our group will support it, and I hear that there are concerns about this in other groups too. So we absolutely must use this crisis to combat this illegal trade.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u92	Mr President, since this matter had been placed on the agenda of a meeting at which I could not be present, it was subsequently introduced on behalf of my colleague, Mrs Greet Daems. But as a Member of Parliament for the province of Namur, I am concerned about what is happening in Sambreville, which is why I will ask you my question by speaking in French. I would like to point out that this issue also dates back to January. So I don't know what's going on today. On the other hand, I want you to know, Madam Minister, that I am fully aware that the problem of noise pollution is a matter for the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u93	Mr Warmoes, this will, unfortunately, be my answer and only my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u94	Allow me, however, to ask my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u95	Please.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u96	The purpose of my question is to know who is actually competent. These are, therefore, complaints from residents of Sambreville concerning the overflight of military aircraft from the Florennes military base. The residents complain that the noise emitted by these planes crossing the sound barrier has become unbearable. Madam Minister, could you please let me know what the regulations on noise pollution in the air force are? Is the latter subject to the same rules as civil aviation? I know that in terms of environmental permits, in particular, the rules are different for the army. How is the noise pollution of military airfields controlled? Where can residents complain, if any? What measures are in place to limit noise pollution in the vicinity of military airfields? Are you aware of the complaints of the residents of the Sambreville area? Madam Minister, as we are talking about the air force, could you tell me whether there are specific laws or rules to which the air force, which falls under federal jurisdiction, is subject? In this respect, are the Regions the only ones responsible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u97	Mr President, Mr Warmoes, as I have said, this is a matter for the Mobility Administration, probably in connection with the Department of Foreign Affairs. I understand you're questioning me because I know the existence of these noise nuisances. However, the environmental aspect is managed by the Region concerned, namely the Walloon Region. That's all I can tell you today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u98	Thank you for your answer. Minister, you are also Minister of the Environment. I hope that you will pass on this question, particularly to your colleague Mr Goffin, so that the army can take account of the people. Sambreville is a relatively densely populated town.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u99	Our colleague Daems will now ask her four questions consecutively.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u100	Mr President, the answer will only be wider!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u101	Mr President, Minister, my first question concerns the Projects of Common Interests (PCI). The European Parliament recently approved the new list of PCI projects, projects of common interest. The European Union has identified these projects as a key priority for connecting Europe's energy infrastructure and they receive a great deal of taxpayers' money. The current list contains a lot of large gas projects. The study by the Artelys consultancy firm speaks of 32 unnecessary gas projects for a total budget of EUR 29 billion. The current PCI list runs counter to the objectives of the European Green Deal. In the European Parliament, therefore, there has been opposition to the current PCI list and some groups have been fighting to reject it. Nevertheless, the list was adopted. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. What is your position on the current PCI list? Are you in favour of the current selection of infrastructure projects, including the 32 gas projects? Do you recognise that the current PCI gas projects are contrary to the ambitions of the European Green Deal and the objectives of the Paris Agreement? What actions will you take? My next question concerns the European climate law. A first version was proposed at the beginning of March. I understand that there is no statement on this ambition by 2030 (...) I have the following questions. Were you involved in the creation of the European Climate Law? If so, what position did you take during these talks? If not, why weren't you involved? Was Belgium involved in any other way? A higher European climate ambition automatically translates into a higher Belgian climate objective. This means that the National Energy and Climate Plan will have to be reviewed. How will you reconcile the existing NEKP with the European Climate Law? Do you have any idea of a possible revision of national energy and climate plans? What changes do you think are needed in the first instance? My third question concerns the public survey that has been carried out in the framework of the European Green Deal on the State aid guidelines since 2021. These measures concern aid to companies to avoid carbon leakage. In many cases, tax money goes directly to the major polluters. In Flanders, tens of millions of euros from the Flemish Climate Fund go directly to the largest polluters. The public survey was limited to the possible State aid measures (...) I would like to ask you more broadly about the ETS in the context of the Green Deal. What advice has Belgium delivered to the European Commission in the context of the public survey? What is your position on State aid measures under the ETS? In fact, giving tax money to the biggest polluters in our country is contrary to the polluter pays principle. In the context of the discussions on the Green Deal, have you submitted any other comments or recommendations to the European Commission? My final question concerns the ETS itself. The ETS is still the alpha and omega of European climate policy. It could even be said that it is the alpha and the omega of Belgian climate policy, because 40% of Belgian emissions are covered by the ETS. Our National Energy and Climate Plan does not mention the ETS sectors. After all, they are covered by the European system. The ETS has a number of fundamental problems. Firstly, the ceiling of the ETS, the cap, is far too low and completely inadequate. Secondly, such a cap-and-trade system actually absorbs any additional effort. That is how it is, paradoxically, that it does not matter whether one travels within Europe by train or takes the plane. This was described in a report by the Leuven think tank Metaforum. It demonstrates the absurdity of the ETS. Any additional effort, above the emissions ceiling of the ETS, will be cancelled. Madam Secretary, do you recognise the perverse effects the ETS produces? Do you accept the absurd, counterproductive effects of that system? Can you confirm that the ETS is insufficient to reach the Paris climate agreement? What reforms of the ETS do you think are needed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u102	Ms Daems, the list of PCI projects was fully and unanimously approved by the Committee, which includes representatives of all Member States. The selection criteria shall assess, inter alia, the impact on energy security, market integration, competitiveness and sustainability. With regard to the latter criterion, the role of gas as a transition fuel is also recognised. In Belgium, too, this fuel has a significant share in almost all long-term scenarios for reasons of flexibility and security of supply. It goes without saying that the ultimate decarbonisation of the gas sector is necessary in order to achieve the European Paris objective. I therefore look forward to the outcome of the European Commission and its evaluation of the TEN-E Regulation within the context of its Green Deal. I'm going to ask what that acronym is. I don't like to use acronyms without knowing the meaning of them. Your second question concerns the European climate law. The European Commission alone has the right of initiative to propose new European legislation, such as the proposal of European climate law announced before 4 March. Member States are not involved in the preparation of legislative proposals and only play a role in the negotiations in the Council of the European Union. In this context, the Belgian position will have to be developed in coordination between all competent authorities. In this case, the preparation is in the hands of a network of the International Environmental Policy Coordination Committee under the direction of my administration and is then validated in the Directorate-General for Coordination, organised by the Foreign Affairs Office. In view of the cross-cutting and cross-disciplinary nature of the proposals under the European Green Deal, of which the Climate Act forms part, it is of the utmost importance that the DGE consultation ensures transparency and involvement of all relevant departments at federal level and at the level of the federated entities. The current NEFPs are part of a European target to reduce emissions by at least 40% by 2030 compared to 1990. This objective was consistent with an emission reduction of 80% by 2050. In the meantime, however, we know that we are not achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement with such long-term objectives, which is why the European Council decided that the EU should become climate neutral by 2050. The European Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) by Horizon 2030 will also need to be reviewed. In the context of the ambition cycle under the Paris Agreement, Belgium, together with the Netherlands and Luxembourg in the Benelux-Talanoa Declaration, called for a review of the European NDCs and invited the Commission to examine options to strengthen the European 2030 target as soon as possible. The European Council of 12 December also invited the Commission, following a thorough impact assessment and well before COP 26, to submit a proposal for updating the European NDCs. The Commission's Von der Leyen has already announced a proposal to increase the 2030 target to 50% or even 55% on the basis of an in-depth impact analysis. I call for the proposal and the impact assessment to be published as soon as possible, as it is essential to start the European debate on this issue so that we encourage the other parties at international level to also show ambition and move forward. Once the new 2030 target has been set, it needs to be translated into European legislation. By 2021, the Commission will announce proposals to adapt the ETS Directive, the Efficiency Sharing Regulation and other European legislation to the new 2030 target. It is within the framework of the EC ESA that an increase in the national non-ETS target will be set, followed by an adjustment of the NEFPs. Mrs Daems, I know by now what the acronym TEN-E means. Those are the Trans-European Networks for Energy. Your third question concerned the public survey on the ETS. The current compensation scheme expires at the end of this year. That is why the European Commission is organising a public consultation on the subject. The exercise is also in the context of the revised European Directive which provides that a Member State should endeavour to spend no more than 25% of its auction revenues on compensating indirect costs. Since 2018, a Member State that does not comply with that provision should publish a motivation report in the event of an overrun. Flanders compensated 46.87 million euros in 2016 or 82% of auction revenues and 31.71 million euros in 2017 or 42% of auction revenues. This makes Flanders the absolute European frontrunner. That's good news. Wallonia entered the system on 6 July 2018. The consultation on the subject between the Regions and the federal government is still ongoing. The submission took place on 10 March this year. It is primarily the Departments of Economics of the Regions, which follow up the file. There was a discussion on 3 March to amend the text. The draft position assumes that the reform of the EU ETS should strike a good balance, linking more ambitious objectives and increasing incentives to invest with effective carbon leakage protection. It is pointed out that it is very important for our country, with an important presence of energy-intensive and electro-intensive industries, to adopt a similar approach in the selection of eligible sectors to protect against indirect carbon leakage, as used for direct carbon leakage. Moreover, the scheme should provide a stable framework to compensate for the most exposed sectors. This should therefore be as consistent as possible with the recent reform of the EU ETS. It is also argued that the CO2 figure should be aligned with the real costs paid by the companies in Germany, the Netherlands and Belgium. Finally, there are a number of technical questions for clarification. I believe that state aid should help to ensure further investment in energy efficiency and innovation by anchoring the recipient industries here. Federal aid to companies under energy policy agreements or inter-branch agreements should also be sufficient to encourage continuous improvement and avoid additional efforts and a carbon lock-in. With a view to an almost completely decarbonised industry by 2050, the European Green Deal also aims to achieve a steady reduction in carbon leakage protection. The introduction of border adjustment measures in line with WTO rules could create an elegant level playing field, while auction revenues could be more targeted towards the most difficult emission reductions. As far as your fourth question is concerned, I cannot agree with your statement on the perverse effect that the ETS makes additional policies meaningless. The EU ETS puts a price on greenhouse gas emissions, which is one of the most important instruments of European climate policy. Contrary to the introduction of a carbon price-fixing tax, but without a view of final emissions levels, the ETS provides an absolute ceiling on emissions. It is essential from the point of view of environmental integrity. Moreover, the system allows flexibility between installations at EU level, favouring the most efficient installations and achieving the most cost-effective reduction options. While the economic crisis and the influx of international credits created a surplus on the market, we have set up the market stability reserve for this purpose. This could also strengthen the cap in the event of additional efforts going beyond what is foreseen and leading to surpluses on the market, which would result in more rights being placed in the reserve and cancelled. With regard to achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement and, in particular, the target of limiting temperature increases to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels, the basis for EU policy is now the goal of being climate neutral by 2050. As you know, the European Commission is now translating this objective into concrete proposals under the European Green Deal. In March, we received a proposal to anchor climate neutrality in an EU regulation and by the summer the Commission announced that it would present an impact analysis of its proposal to reduce EU emissions by 50% by 2030 or even 55% below 1990 levels. This impact analysis will need to demonstrate to what extent EU policies will need to be adjusted. This includes evaluating and adjusting the slope of the linear reduction path under the EU ETS, as you call it, indeed. So I am sure that the current ETS cap is not in line with our new objectives and will need to be further strengthened in the coming year, but also the targets for Member States under the Efficiency Sharing Regulation, the Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Directives, CO2 standards for cars, energy tax, etc. will be needed. In the Green Deal, the Commission also announces legislative proposals for these key elements of EU policy by June 2021. In other words, you are very far-sighted with your rightful question. Although emissions in the ETS sectors are regulated at European level, I have never wanted to claim that there can and must be no additional policy, including at national level, to help those industries make the transition to climate neutrality. The EU ETS provides for a partial internalisation of public emissions costs by charging a uniform carbon price. As there are other barriers and market failures in addition to the need for a price signal, it is essential to develop additional policies for the ETS sectors, in particular on innovation, public infrastructure and the encouragement of behavioural changes and synergies between sectors. In this context, I also refer to the vision paper of my administration in preparation for the Belgian long-term strategy, which identifies a number of strategic yards for these sectors, such as the development of industrial roadmaps, mapping and scaling up strategies and plans for a circular economy, focusing on the challenges and opportunities for electro-intensive industries, and developing a vision and framework for the use of biomass, hydrogen, e-fuels and carbon storage. We must also ensure that workers in those sectors where employment could be under pressure are accompanied and retrained in order to be able to enter the new economy that we must start building today. With regard to the issue of intra-European flights, firstly, we must take into account the market stability reserve, which can partly offset the waterbed effect, which would absorb an effort by the system and free up space for other emissions. Secondly, it seems clear to me that intra-European rail transport rather than short flights is a cost-effective way of reducing emissions. As the EU ETS encourages the most cost-effective reductions, this shift is encouraged. However, this change is at the same time prevented by other factors, such as the fact that we do pay VAT on train tickets but not on airline tickets, the tax exemption for kerosene, and the lack of efficient integration and cooperation of rail traffic within the Union which would make it easier and cheaper to travel pan-Europeanly. That is where we need to discuss the approach to international transport, not the ETS, but additional initiatives to ensure equal treatment of rail and air traffic. I would like to emphasise that the inclusion of intra-European air transport in the ETS has been a very good thing since 2013. Previously, these emissions were covered by international bunkers and were not monitored at European level. These intra-EU aviation emissions are now covered by a separate sub-category with separate allowances, and this additional aviation emission space was set at 95% of the industry's average emissions between 2004 and 2006. In the meantime, it is clear that this additional space is insufficient to absorb sector growth. For example, the aviation sector had to purchase nearly 27 million tonnes of duty in 2017. For comparison, the total Flemish ETS emissions amounted to 32 million tonnes in 2017. As you can see, the inclusion of aviation does contribute to the ETS pricing process. From 2021 onwards, intra-EU aviation will also be subject to the decreasing emission ceiling and the rights of fixed installations and aviation will be interchangeable and the use of additional European rights will also be prohibited. Finally, I acknowledge that the EU ETS is not perfect. However, let us not throw the child away with the bath water. The expression also exists in the French version and put the whole system at risk, now that it has finally begun to generate a more significant carbon price than at the start of the system. On the other hand, let us concentrate on finding solutions to the remaining problems and on providing our companies with a framework that will help to make the transition to a climate-neutral Europe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u103	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer, which I can certainly work on. I would like to respond very briefly to a number of things you have explained, for example your answer to the question about the Projects of Common Interests. I hear you defending investments in megagas projects. At the same time, you are always saying that you are in favour of an ambitious climate policy. That is double and not compatible with each other. In our view, such investments go directly against the Paris climate agreement and the ambitions of the European Green Deal. Those investments hypothesize all the climate efforts that have been made. By defending these projects, you undermine your own policies. I wonder if you're hovering for the heavy pressure from the fossil fuel lobby. I can only ask myself. With regard to the public survey on the ETS, I would like to point out that a study shows that the 20 largest polluters emit more than all Belgian families put together. Five major pollutants account for 20% of total emissions. Based on official figures from your administration and from the FPS Finance, our study service has written a report on this, which revealed that five major polluters received grants in 2018 for more than 10 million euros, while together they made 10 billion euros and paid an average of 4.2 % of taxes. The latter amounts to a tax reduction of EUR 2.7 billion in 2018. In other words, companies have received millions of euros in grants, while ordinary families do not receive support for increased energy bills. I'm asking some really big questions about that. You also say that investments should be used for further investments in energy efficiency, but there is no guarantee of that. The ETS is clearly unable to encourage large-scale pollutants to do something about their emissions. In fact, your administration expects that emissions from the Belgian ETS sector will increase in the coming years. For the PVDA, it is clear that an ambitious and socially just climate policy is impossible without tackling these major polluters. I would also like to respond to your latest response on the perverse effects of the ETS. I am not saying that the ETS makes additional policies impossible, quite the contrary. My point is that we are schizophrenic in our climate policy. We pretend that Belgian factories and energy producers are not on Belgian territory, but on European territory. There is just no additional policy for large-scale pollutants. There's hardly any debate about it. The discussion on major pollutants always refers to the ETS. That's the end of the story. As long as the major polluters in Belgian climate policy are not taken into account, there will never be any real social climate policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u104	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Senesael's 55003742C has been converted to a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u105	Mr President, Madam Minister, in the same vein as my previous question, that is, how to think about the transition to truly reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, I would like to raise the innovative idea put in place in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Last March, the country moved to free public transport, which is a world first in a country. In addition to the benefits of congestion on roads, this measure represents a significant step forward in the fight against global warming and pollution. Although mobility is not one of your skills, it goes without saying that it is closely linked to your duties as Minister. Minister, have you been able to discuss with Mr Bellot, Minister of Mobility, initiatives such as the one implemented in the Grand Duchy, which combine better mobility and the fight against global warming and pollution? If so, what is the status of these discussions? If not, do you not think that it would be possible for the next government to put forward such discussions between mobility and the environment? Taking into account what I said above – that is, the close relationship between mobility and your skills – what is your opinion of free mobility in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u106	Mr President, Madam Member, thank you for your question. First of all, I would like to tell you that in 2017, the transport sector accounted for 23% of total greenhouse gas emissions in Belgium. The importance of this sector in terms of greenhouse gas emissions requires the involvement of mobility ministers on climate issues. The Federal Minister for Mobility is also formally involved in the discussions on this subject, since he is represented on the National Climate Commission. Recently, we had the opportunity to discuss the following issues within the Commission, in connection with your question, namely Belgium's long-term strategy to reduce greenhouse gases. As part of this strategy, Belgium aims to reduce emissions from the transport sector to zero by 2050 for both passenger and freight transport. This long-term strategy underlines the importance of modal shift as a cornerstone for achieving the climate ambitions set, with additional benefits in terms of air quality, mobility and public space use. With regard to passenger transport, Belgium aims to limit the share of individual cars in modal distribution, to the benefit of alternative modes of transport, such as walking and cycling – so-called active transport – light electric vehicles, such as electric bicycles, speedelecs, electric scooters, etc., as well as shared modes of transport, such as public and shared vehicles. To this end, it focuses on the quality of alternative modes, adequate infrastructure and the promotion of combined mobility. The concept of mobility as a service is also recognized as an important lever to achieve the objective of combined mobility and to increase the occupancy rate of vehicles. The federal level is committed here to ensuring an efficient rail network, including adequate interconnections with neighbouring countries, in order to allow an increase in the share of rail in the transport of people and goods. In addition, it can support, through its expertise in taxation and product standardisation, the transition to alternative modes of transport and zero-emission vehicles. Discussions are taking place between the Federal Minister for Mobility and myself. They were again held last year – but we are already in April – as part of a cooperation agreement with the Regions to reduce national emissions of air pollutants. The measures within the federal jurisdiction of this cooperation agreement of course concerned mobility, taxation and product standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u107	Minister, I am pleased to hear your summary of your collaboration with Mr. Bellot. However, I am concerned that you did not answer the last question, which concerned free or at least greater accessibility of mobility. I wanted your opinion on this. To this part of my question, I am greatly disappointed that you did not have an answer from me. That's too bad. Thanks anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u108	Minister, this is a transaction that took place on Friday, April 3. The EZB nuclear site has been abandoned since 2008. The EZB plant has never been dismantled and ONDRAF estimated the nuclear liability on site at more than 10 million euros in 2015. Has this liability been revalued since then? If so, what is the amount of this new evaluation? I suspect that this amount has increased sharply. On April 3, after twelve years of proceedings with AFCN, EZAG managed to give up its nuclear liability for a symbolic euro to the Australian pharmaceutical firm Telix. How could ONDRAF approve such a transaction without having the assurance of the intention and above all the financial capacity of Telix to dismantle the site? The Australian company's press release states that the cost of dismantling is estimated at €5.2 million, while ONDRAF estimated this nuclear liability at over €10 million in 2015. Minister, what is the 2020 evaluation? How could the Belgian State approve such a transaction and allow a company that has not dismantled its site – which contains two cyclotrons – after 12 years to be able to sell it without a clear and firm guarantee on the buyer's ability to clean up the site?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u109	Mr President, Madam Minister, I will not repeat what has already been said by my colleague. ONDRAF had expressed reservations about Telix's financial capacity to assume all of its decommissioning obligations related to the former nuclear activity of the site. As of 31 December 2018, the capital of the Belgian company Telix Pharmaceuticals Belgium based in Herstal was 12,400 euros. Madam Minister, in the press, you mentioned that the legislation does not require a parent company to intervene if the operator of a nuclear site does not have sufficient funds to meet the cost of dismantling and managing waste. In the past, there has already been a rather glaring example. This is the case of Best Medicals in Fleurus, whose cost of dismantling was EUR 119 million and which was finally paid by the Walloon taxpayer. Madam Minister, is there any way to turn against the German company which produced radioisotopes at the Seneffe site and which did not return the site "clean" when it left? If not, why not? Recently, a bill was passed into committee. As part of the discussions on nuclear liability, hearings were held on nuclear civil liability. It was then stated that involving the parent company with the operator, concerning the aspect of financial liability in nuclear energy-related activities, is contrary to the Paris Convention. This may already be a part of my question. Do you confirm that this is contrary to the Paris Convention? If so, the Convention should be amended to allow for the establishment of financial co-responsibility between a company operating a nuclear site and its parent company. Do you therefore intend to act in this direction to limit the risk that the costs of dismantling and waste management will not be borne by the community in the future? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u110	Mr Cogolati, I will merge the answer to your question which was asked on 3 March 2020 with the answer to Mr Warmoes' question. The two questions relate to the same subject matter. You will understand that many of your questions relate to private companies over which the state has no direct control. ONDRAF is not aware of the precise terms of the commercial transaction carried out in January 2019 between Eckert & Ziegler EZB and the parent company Eckert & Ziegler Strahlen und Medizintechnik AG (EZAG). The ONDRAF's estimate of the cost of dismantling the Seneffe facility belonging to EZB was EUR 10,000 145 in its fourth nuclear liability inventory report published in 2018 and covering the period 2013-2017, while EZB's estimate was modestly EUR 4.128 million, ranging from EUR 2.383 million to EUR 6.971 million. An initial analysis of the initial decommissioning plan as forwarded to ONDRAF had raised many questions and requests for clarification. ONDRAF had considered that the difference between its estimate and that of EZB and EZAG was based on a certain under-evaluation by EZB of the annual costs such as site monitoring and maintenance, project management, technical support or monitoring by the authorities, as well as on a difference between the number of issues considered, i.e. the volume of ultimate radioactive waste. Since then, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN) has transferred the nuclear authorization from the Seneffe EZAG site to Telix Pharmaceuticals, following a favourable opinion from ONDRAF. Telix, by taking over the authorisation for nuclear exploitation, has also taken over the obligation to provide for the clean-up and dismantling of the Seneffe facilities. ONDRAF informed me that prior to the submission of its transfer request, Telix had spontaneously contacted the organization to obtain an explanation of its legal obligations to the organization. Discussions on the assessment of the cost of dismantling facilities between Telix and ONDRAF have begun and should allow for the convergence of assessments on the cost of dismantling facilities at the Seneffe site. Telix informed ONDRAF that it had initiated actions to dismantle, in the short term, one of the two cyclotrons, which is very clearly a positive step forward on this issue. Finally, Mr. Warmoes, in response to your two sub-questions, EZAG disposed of all the radioactive waste physically present at the Seneffe site. EZAG waste still present on the UCL site has not been transferred to Telix and remains the responsibility of EZAG. Through the application of the guiding principles provided for in the Royal Decree of 25 April 2014 amending the Royal Decree of 30 March 1981 determining the tasks and laying down the procedures for the operation of the public body for the management of radioactive waste and fissile material with regard to the provision of the long-term fund, EZAG also remains responsible for the waste produced by it and which have been taken over by ONDRAF. It should be noted, however, that the current legislation does not provide for a specific provision to impose nuclear provisioning. The only legal basis derives from accounting legislation. That's how I get to your second sub-question. The Seneffe site is not a nuclear installation within the meaning of the Act of 22 July 1985 on civil liability in the field of nuclear energy of the Paris Convention and is therefore not concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u111	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. You started your intervention by saying that the state had no direct control over these private companies. Let me be surprised. Indeed, ONDRAF had to give its opinion, and it was, following this favourable opinion, that the transaction between EZAG and Telix could take place. The problem lies in the fact that the last assessment – as you recalled – by ONDRAF in 2015 of nuclear liabilities on the Seneffe site reports more than ten million euros. I am really surprised that this figure has not been revised upwards since then, especially since we are talking about a transaction with a new Australian pharmaceutical company that estimates the cost at only €5.2 million, which is twice as much. You realize that it is the duty of the parliamentarian that I am to sound the alarm by drawing attention to the fact that there is a risk in terms of public finances, that there is a risk that the Belgian taxpayer will have to pay again, as was the case with Best Medical in Fleurus. For us, it's out of the question. On the basis of your answer, we have no assurance as to the financial capacity of the new Australian company Telix to carry all the costs of dismantling the site and its two cyclotrons, which have been shut down since 2008.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u112	I agree with my colleague's remarks. I am surprised to learn that there will be no direct control of the state. This demonstrates two things: on the one hand, we are talking about privatisation of profits, but we are socialising losses and costs, which is contrary to the general interest. We cannot support this approach. This also shows that there are gaps in nuclear legislation. For the rest, Madam Minister, I am aware that the Paris Convention does not apply in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u113	Mr President, I must go to chair the Health Committee. Could you turn my other questions into written questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u114	Actually, I only have three questions. Perhaps something went wrong in connection with the titulature. Everything revolves around the European Environment Council of 5 March 2020. First of all, I would like to ask you a question about the climate pact. We have heard a lot about public consultations here today. In the margins of the European Council of 5 March 2020, the European Commission also announced a public consultation on a new European climate pact. I don't think we've talked about that yet. It is a broad initiative to give citizens and stakeholders a voice and play a role in designing new climate action, sharing information, launching local activities and demonstrating solutions that can be followed. The press said that this public consultation around the climate pact would be open for 12 weeks. All this is taking place in the run-up to next UN Conferences on Climate Change that would normally take place in Glasgow in November 2020. I've already heard in the press that Glasgow would be adjourned for the sake of the corona virus. Perhaps you will be able to answer that later? So, my question is about the public consultation on the climate pact. Then I have two questions for 5 March 2020. Madam Minister, I have heard that the Belgian Government was represented at the European Environment Council by Flemish Minister Demir. Mrs Demir then announced in the press that she would bring the Just Transition Fund to the attention again, as well as the link with the European Commission's multiannual financial framework. It would have said that the Regions, and hence the Walloon Region, consider that the European Commission should take account of the principle of subsidiarity and therefore not decide on the distribution of the fund within Belgium. Can you confirm that Mrs Demir has represented Belgium and that she has referred once again to the Just Transition Fund? I have a second question on the same subject. As you have already said, the European Commission is keen to ensure, under the climate law, that the Member States and regions reduce their emissions sufficiently. The Commission has announced that it intends to set intermediate objectives by means of delegated acts. Every five years, it intends to launch new intermediate objectives based on the latest scientific insights and best available technologies. Moreover, not insignificantly, the European Parliament should have a majority and the Council should have a qualified majority in order to prevent or correct a number of issues. At that time, your Flemish colleague strongly criticised some of the provisions of this climate law, i.e. the erosion of the role of the European Parliament by those delegated acts. My question is whether you share your Flemish colleague's view on some of the provisions of the monitoring framework contained in this climate law, in particular the delegated acts and the intermediate targets for 2050. Do you think it is justified that delegated acts should be used?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u115	Mr Ravyts, on 4 March the European Commission proposed its proposal for a European climate law. At the same time, it did indeed open a public consultation under the European Climate Pact, which will be launched in the autumn in the run-up to COP 26. This Pact aims to strengthen the commitment of businesses, organisations, citizens and many actors at all levels of policy. It also wishes to gain more insights and inspiration from numerous forms of civic participation that have already been created. The aim of the European Climate Pact is to give everyone a voice, as you have said, to create a space to develop new actions, to share information, to launch bottom-up initiatives and to provide solutions. The public consultation is an initiative by the European Commission, neither the federal government nor the other Belgian authorities are directly involved in this consultation. The launch also looked at the role of young people as changemakers. The European Commission will gather all the ideas for action by 27 May 2020, after which it will also look at initiatives already launched by Member States, which aim to increase commitment and participation to make the Climate Pact as effective, inclusive and ambitious as possible. In addition, the Pact also provides support for local initiatives for, inter alia, the strengthening of efforts in the building and transport sector and the promotion of reforestation projects. The Commission proposed its proposal for a European climate law at the Environment Council on 5 March. Belgium did not intervene at this meeting, as it was merely a presentation by the European Commission. The first technical meeting at European level on this proposal took place on 13 March in the Council of the European Union's Environment Working Group. The day before, a first DGE consultation took place. At this first technical meeting, Belgium, like most other Member States, focused on asking questions in order to understand the proposal in the first instance and to clarify it. Some Member States reiterated well-known positions in their interventions, in particular with regard to their position on the 2030 targets. For example, the 12 Member States that recently wrote a letter to Commissioner Timmermans reiterated their call for the impact analysis to be published as soon as possible, at the latest in June, so that the debate on increasing 2030 targets can start as soon as possible and the EU can decide on the increased European level of ambition in view of the Glasgow climate summit. It is essential to encourage the other parties at international level to also show ambition and move forward. Several Member States, including our neighbouring countries Luxembourg, the Netherlands and France, also argued for an increased 2030 target to 55%. With regard to the use of the delegated acts, questions were raised by several Member States for clarification. It was also stated that the opinion of the Council's legal service was considered useful. Belgium also agreed to this and asked for further clarification on the reasons why the Commission considers the use of delegated acts to be appropriate and appropriate. On the basis of the Commission's reply and the clarifications made by the Council's Legal Service, the Belgian position will be established. As I indicated in the answer to a previous question, preparation will take place within the relevant network of the International Environment Policy Coordination Committee, coordinated by my administration and subsequently validated by the Directorate-General for Coordination, organised by the Foreign Affairs Office. Given the cross-cutting and cross-disciplinary nature of the proposals under the European Green Deal, which includes climate law, it is of the utmost importance for this DG to present and ensure transparency and involvement of all relevant departments at federal level and at the level of the federated entities. The answer to your second question, Mr Ravyts, is almost the same as your first question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u116	That simplifies the case. Mr Ravyts seems to be happy with your answer and would now like to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u117	I am very pragmatic, Mr President, you know that. Madam Minister, the most important political issue that I have withheld from your reply is that much has been announced in the newspapers by your Flemish colleague, but that the Belgian attitude on 5 March and also on 12 March was apparently one of asking questions to clarify the delegated acts. As far as the climate pact is concerned, I understand that this is entirely the initiative of the European Commission and that the federal government is not directly involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u118	Mrs. Dierick is no longer here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u119	Mr President, Minister, in spring 2019 the federal government approved the cooperation agreement of 25 July 2018, which provided for the establishment of the PREMAZ fund. If a leaking fuel oil or gas oil tank is to be dealt with as a private person, this Belgian fuel oil fund can be used to clean up soil pollution. This fund is financed by the surpluses of BOFAS, the fund which pre-Premaz served to clean up the service stations. The creation of such a fund was urgently needed, as the restoration of oil pollution is invaluable for most individuals. After the start of the fund, there would be a three-year notification period within which an application for compensation could be made. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. What is the state of play with regard to the actual entry into force of this fund? What steps will you take if this has not yet entered into force? How many applications have been submitted so far? When will people be able to receive compensation to cover their rehabilitation costs? Are the BOFAS surpluses sufficient to finance this fund?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u120	Madam Minister, according to my information, no recognition dossier has yet been submitted to the Interregional Soil Committee. The sector says that the fund, as it now stands, is priceless. According to the sector's estimates, the total cost would be up to EUR 900 million. The PROMAZ vzw has a starting capital of about EUR 110 million, coming from BOFAS, but if that is not enough, the fund can be further strengthened by a small levy on fuel oil, according to the sector. At the end of last year, the sector presented a proposal for a levy of EUR 5 per 1000 litres of fuel oil. In this way, the fuel oil fund would have EUR 316 million over a period of 20 years, enough to deal with 5,600 dossiers. However, this proposal was not accepted by the relevant ministers. In the Flemish Parliament's Environment Committee of 11 March 2020, Minister Demir said that the sector should really take responsibility, but that it doesn't really have a stick behind the door at Flemish level to get them to file the recognition file. Meanwhile, many owners have already replaced their leaking tanks and are now waiting to submit an application for support. Madam Secretary, I have three questions. Firstly, what is the state of play with regard to the recognition file to be submitted to the Interregional Soil Committee? Secondly, to what extent can you encourage, encourage or oblige the sector to find a quick solution? What's your stick behind the door? Finally, what solutions do you yourself see to ensure that progress is made in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, a cooperation agreement between the federal government and the various regions has become the cooperation agreement of 18 July 2018 and provides for the creation of a fund for the soil cleaning of gas oil tanks for heating purposes. That fund could then intervene in the cost of soil pollution from a masquerade tank. It is up to the oil sector concerned, the gas oil heating sector, to set up such a fund that meets the conditions for approval. The oil sector federations Informazout, the Belgian Petroleum Federation and the Belgian Federation of Fuel Dealers BRAFCO have established the association PROMAZ. PROMAZ has started preparations to submit an accreditation dossier as a fund for the soil cleaning of gas oil tanks. The non-profit organisation must submit the recognition file to the IBC Interregional Soil Reconciliation Commission. No recognition file has been filed today. The IBC has a period of four months to grant the PROMAZ vzw the recognition as a fund for the soil cleaning of gas oil tanks for heating purposes. The sector initially set the cost of such a fund at EUR 900 million. During the many years of negotiations this cooperation agreement was based on approximately 19,000 reorganisation files and a total estimated cost of EUR 300 million. The sector is faced with a number of unknown parameters, as they consider that there is little study material on the number of expected applications. Therefore, the cooperation agreement states that at the end of the three-year notification period an estimate of the total cost of implementing this cooperation agreement should be made. It will then also be made clear whether a contribution to the product needs gas oil heating and how much this should be. The reserves of the non-profit association BOFAS allow the non-profit association PROMAZ to start and be operational in the first years. The reluctance to submit an application for approval is also linked to the reference in the Flemish government agreement to the phasing out of fuel oil boilers and fuel oil tanks. In addition, the first proposals for recognition files by the sector have not yet been able to pass the legal test with the cooperation agreement. Public authorities expect the sector to submit a new proposal or recognition dossier which will give substance to the provisions of the cooperation agreement. The date on which the decision to approve the fuel oil fund is published in the Belgian Official Journal is the starting date of the fund. This is at the same time the start date of the three-year application period and it is only then that we can register effectively with the fund. In the meantime, you can register completely without obligation via the website www.promaz.be, so that you can be informed as soon as it becomes possible to submit an effective notification to the PROMAZ fund. Following contact with the PROMAZ vzw, it appears that a 400 reports have been registered so far, of which 37 % Dutch and 63 % French. No regional breakdown is available. About half of the total concerns companies and government staff or institutions that want to stay informed of the state of play, i.e. no reports of a soil problem. The goal is, once the PROMAZ vzw enters into force as a fund, that all registered persons are contacted to channel further. This is the beginning of an answer. I don't have a stick behind the door, as you both said, to force a process to go on or off. The big drawback is the enormous cost of this measure. I think that a start to the solution might be that your committee will hold hearings with the interveners, i.e. from oliesectorfederatie Informazout, from Belgische petroleumfederatie to de Belgische federatie der brandstofhandelaars, to have a full view of all the technical and legal elements that would hinder the continuation of the case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u122	I take your suggestion, of course, that we should look into the matter a little more closely in our committee. In fact, you are also saying that you expect a new proposal from the sector. You are talking about the enormous costs and the reason why the implementation of the cooperation agreement with PROMAZ is in reality very difficult. I am looking at the chairman of the committee, who apparently is also very interested in the dossier. I'm also curious to hear his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u123	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. Our group has been following the dossier for a long time and has always called for such an agreement, because the cost of cleaning up contaminated soil is certainly very high for private individuals. It is often about tens of thousands of euros, resulting in personal financial dramas. These costs are rarely covered by insurance. This leads, in several cases, to distressing situations, as we can often read in the press. That is why we were pleased that an agreement was reached at the end of the previous parliamentary term, but the dossier is still blocked. There's gonna be no recognition. So we are doing the best we can to remind the sectors of their responsibility and to implement the agreement effectively. That is why I consider your suggestion for a hearing or at least a written opinion to be interesting. In any case, Flanders already has 730 000 families with a fuel tank. According to samples, there are problems with about 1% of the tanks. The longer they stay underground, the greater the risk of leaking. This is, in other words, a fairly significant number. We will include that point in the arrangements for work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u124	Mr Cogolati, you have a question No 55004094C on the renegotiations of the Energy Charter Treaty.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u125	Minister, could you provide me with your written answer by e-mail?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u126	No problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u127	Mr President, Madam Minister, my question is dated March 20th. At the time, confinement had just begun with the closure of the shops. I began my question by saying the following: "Since this week, people, often among the most precarised, living in light houses and/or without a tank, have unfortunately no longer been able to obtain gas bottles, oil with their jerrycan or even pellets". This was a very boring situation because it was cold. While respecting the rules necessary for the social distancing measures requested by the government, is there not a flexibility to be provided for this type of supply linked to a primary need? The government has understood the importance of access to energy by providing drivers with access to gas stations. This energy is also essential for some of our fellow citizens to heat their homes. Minister, what are the steps you can take to quickly enable these people to regain access to their heating fuel?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u128	Mr President, Mr Vicaire, according to the information we have at present, in particular those collected during the checks on petroleum products which continue to be carried out by the agents of the Directorate-General of the Fapetro service, there is no shortage of supply both in gas cylinders and in heating oil, usually available at service stations. I could even give you examples since I was questioned by some delivery people about this supply. In addition, with regard to gas cylinders, it is now accepted by the gas sector that the place of exchange between an empty container and a full container no longer has to be the place of origin, which facilitates supply during periods of containment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u129	Minister, I had tabled this question after I had been questioned. So I wanted to ask you with the concern to meet the needs of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u130	Mr Cogolati, I give you the floor for your question No 55004348C on "Remediation and dismantling of Best Medical in Fleurus".
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u131	Mr. Chair, if the minister can send me her written answer, I'm content with it. (Sentence)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u132	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 55004401C by Mrs Dierick, but she is no longer present.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u133	Mr President, Madam Minister, I will allow myself to ask the question because it is an important public consultation on a very delicate, very complex issue. This issue has just begun today, Wednesday, April 15, 2020. As we are in full confinement, ONDRAF is now starting a public consultation on its project to bury, in the Belgian basement, the most radioactive nuclear waste. Minister, I'm looking, I don't understand this timing. I don't understand at all! Are we really going to ask the Belgian people, in the midst of the crisis of the VOCID-19, to take ownership of all the scientific reports on the matter of the burial of nuclear waste, without being able to have panels of experts, public meetings or even debates on alternatives. I can tell you that this case impresses me with its magnitude. First of all in time, it will have consequences for hundreds of thousands of years. It also represents billions of euros and has requested 40 years of research from ONDRAF. I therefore believe that it is not serious to imagine and expect the Belgian population to respond in less than two months, in full confinement, in the midst of the crisis of the VOCID-19, on such a complex issue. It is important to remain reasonable. It's just a matter of common sense. Governments - Walloon, Brussels and Flemish - have all suspended their deadlines for public inquiries. It would seem legitimate to me that, if the deadlines are suspended for simple building permits, they are also suspended for such serious cases as those relating to nuclear waste. Minister, I ask you to be able to actively exercise your supervisory authority over ONDRAF to postpone public consultation until all social distancing measures have been lifted and to ensure a quality public debate. I am convinced that citizen participation could enhance the quality of the decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u134	Mr President, Mr Cogolati, I should like to know that I share your concern about this and allow me first of all, on this very important question, to recapitulate the context. The establishment of a national policy on the long-term management of radioactive waste packed with high activity and/or long life is a legal obligation arising from the transposition into Belgian law of Directive 2011/70/EURATOM of the European Council of 19 July 2011 establishing a Community framework for the responsible and safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, which was transposed into Belgian law by a law of 3 June 2014. In the long-term management of waste, the choices to be made are all the more urgent as Belgium passed a law in January 2003 to phase out nuclear energy. This implies clarifying the guidelines for managing the downstream cycle of nuclear fuel and nuclear waste resulting from the dismantling of our nuclear power plants. You, Mr Cogolati and Mr Warmoes, have both insisted on this particular point on several occasions - you are not the only ones, I have had others before you - in this same committee. As far as you are concerned, you called me on 15 July 2019 and 15 January 2020. Thus, in the context of its legal mission, ONDRAF has drawn up a proposal for a national policy on the long-term management of radioactive waste with high activity and/or long-lived packaging, limiting itself to the principle of geological storage without indicating, at this stage, the rock which should host such waste. The proposal also sets out what is to be called the decision-making process, "which will specify the modalities for consultation and intervention of all stakeholders at the later stage of this dossier". It's a long-term issue, as you said, and very impressive, I agree with you. The adoption of the first part of the national policy will not only lay down the broad guidelines for the solution to be developed in Belgium, but will also lay down the basis for consultation and participation for subsequent stages. The public is therefore consulted at this stage because at the time, Kris Peeters and I wanted to. The public will also be consulted at all subsequent stages of progress, whether as part of the development of the national policy, for example when choosing the high rock (the rock that will host the spent fuel), from the downstream of the cycle, when it comes to setting up a specific site and also as part of the construction of a geological storage site in Belgium. This is a request from the Minister of Economy and myself, I repeat: a step-by-step process and consultation at each stage. It is therefore incorrect to say that the organization asks the population to speak in two months on a subject that the ONDRAF has been studying for 40 years. That's not true. As you know, this proposal falls within the scope of the Act of 13 February 2006 on the assessment of the impact of certain plans and programmes on the environment and on public participation in the development of environmental plans and programmes. This is why ONDRAF has planned a public consultation on its national policy proposal and the accompanying environmental impact report. The procedure also provides for ONDRAF to seek the views of different bodies. It is the above-mentioned law that says so, and not the King, nor the ministers, nor the ONDRAF. Article 14 of the Act sets 60 days for consultation with the public and the bodies concerned. Literally: "The public consultation lasts 60 days." You're talking about suspension or extension of time. I told you, the thing is complex because it's fixed in the law. I am sure that under no circumstances would you like to promote legal uncertainty in this matter. Public consultation can take several forms depending on the stage or stage of the case, as I explained above. At the present stage of the file, the choice of ONDRAF in 2019 was based on an online consultation on a dedicated website, or by mail. Documents are available online, without prejudice to legal provisions on access to information. This is a consultation organised in the same format as those which took place, for example, on the PNEC project in 2018 or as part of the establishment of the inter-federal energy pact, for those who remember it. The current context therefore does not in any way prevent access to information, public participation or interaction within this public via telematics. This is not the only consultation taking place in Belgium at the moment by electronic means and by mail. In 2019, ONDRAF established a schedule of actions and undertook the first steps provided for by the Act of 13 February. According to this planning, the consultation of the public and official bodies was already planned in spring 2020 in order to be able to submit to its supervisory authority in the summer of 2020 its proposal for a national policy adapted, if necessary, following the public consultation. You indicate that there was no information or publicity. Should I remind you that the principle of consultation has already been set at the end of 2018? I mentioned this on several occasions and mentioned it in committee on April 2, 2019. The planning was presented by ONDRAF at a hearing in the nuclear safety sub-committee on 10 December 2019. Finally, to answer one of your questions, together with those of an honourable colleague, I have already said, on 11 February 2020, in the same committee, that the 60-day legal period during which the consultation will take place is scheduled for April to June 2020. The start date will be communicated as soon as possible via the channels provided for in Article 14 § 1 of the above-mentioned Act of 13 February 2006 and through the ONDRAF website. The practical arrangements for this consultation and the associated planning were decided long before the outbreak of the health crisis that we are going through. The advertisement and announcement of the consultation shall in all respects comply with the provisions of section 14 of the Act. It is delivered by a notice to the Belgian Monitor, via the Federal Portal www.belgium.be, via the ONDRAF websites, through the national portal of the Aarhus Convention www.aarhus.be. ONDRAF is fully aware that the online consultation period coincides in part with the period of application of the measures to combat the spread of VOCID-19 as decided by the government. However, the Committee is of the view that the consultation, as recommended by the Committee, is not incompatible with containment measures since the consultation did not provide for a meeting, a panel of experts or the need for physical contact between persons. Measures to combat the spread of VOCID-19 do not prevent access to information or participation. In view of the above, ONDRAF complies with its commitments to carry out this consultation in accordance with the legal framework in force and according to the schedule announced several times several months ago. The ONDRAF is convinced that it is also essential that the current procedure can continue and that, in order to have received complaints of delay and delay on several occasions, it is appropriate to continue what the law provides. The ONDRAF is also convinced that it is essential that all of this take place as required by law despite the context we know and certainly in compliance with the current containment measures taken by the federal government, which allows those who, at other times, would not have access to the time available to respond to this investigation to do so. The bet is that, since everyone is at home and documents can be obtained by mail, there is no concrete obstacle to carrying out this consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u135	Thank you, Madam Minister. With my colleague from Groen, Tinne Van der Straeten, what we are asking you is not to change the law. We just want you to understand the context in which we find ourselves today. The context, it must be admitted, is very special for everyone and for all those people who are suffering from the crisis of the VOCID-19. We're all confined at home. The proof is that I'm talking to you via my computer screen, confined to my living room. These are not normal parliamentary working conditions. Today I refuse to ask the Belgian people to give an opinion...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u136	Mr. President, I lost the connection and came back. I said that, given the unpredictable future context and the evolution of the government's response to the spread of VOCID-19, I have already requested that my administration address the issue of prolongation in an evolving context. There is therefore no question of suspension. I believe that would be contrary to the statutory requirement. But it is a question of trying to extend the time frame from the law, in the evolving context that we know. I hope, like you and all of our fellow citizens, a positive development in the context. Of course, I invite parliamentarians and stakeholders to also advertise this consultation from today so that as many people as possible can participate in it in the best possible conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u137	Thank you, Madam Minister. Indeed, the second part of your answer was important. It leaves the door open for an extension of the deadline for public consultation. I think this is already a small step in the right direction. Once again, I really believe that we cannot ignore the completely crazy context in which we are now in. The Belgian people are now being asked to give their opinion on temporary storage, on a European solution, on subsurface storage or on the burial of the most radioactive and dangerous nuclear waste for thousands of years. I really believe that we could not be content with a mini-consultation of only two months, in full confinement, without any public meeting, without any panel of experts. We must take citizen participation seriously. Madam Minister, if you cannot suspend, at least extend this period of public consultation and organise a real public debate, with contributions from experts, to have a real, transparent debate on all the options that are on the table today with regard to the management of the most dangerous nuclear waste in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u138	Mr President, I apologize for my temporary absence; I was in another digital meeting. Madam Minister, the impact of the corona situation on electricity prices on the wholesale market has recently become very clear. Those prices are at an historic low and have been roughly halved lately. It has not often happened that prices were so low on the forward market. This creates a remarkable situation for household variable rates which are indexed on this basis. As you know, the supplier part is normally split into a part of the cost of green electricity and/or cogeneration, which is not indexed, and a part that reflects the electricity price itself, which is indexed in the case of variable contracts. The situation with which we are currently facing a number of suppliers produces a negative indexed energy price, which is due to the formula used at the time, of course, which was based on a much higher market price. Madam Secretary, are you aware of this exceptional situation? Is there a possibility that suppliers limit that factor to a bottom price or possibly to zero? In other words, are suppliers legally obliged to apply the indexation parameter that comes out of the formula, even if it is negative?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u139	Mr Wollants, there is indeed a sharp decline in wholesale prices for both electricity and natural gas. One of the reasons is the reduced economic activity due to COOVID-19 measures. The wholesale prices are at the basis of the indexation parameters used by suppliers in the price formulas of products with a variable energy price. Indeed, in the last quarter, January to March 2020, negative prices were quoted on the BELPEX day-ahead market. In concrete terms, according to the CREG, there were 18 out of 2,183 hours in the last quarter with a negative price. EPEX SPOT records hourly prices as a time interval. Of these 18 negative quotations, 15 occurred in March 2020 and 3 in February 2020. All suppliers operating within the retail segment using a BELPEX-DAM indexing parameter have correctly processed these negative price quotations in their price statements for the past months. However, these negative price quotations did not ensure that negative indexation parameters were applied. The indexation parameters are calculated as an average of price quotations over, for example, a month or a quarter. As a result, the negative price quotations that have recently occurred are offset by the positive price quotations. The indexation parameters are an essential part of the price formula of products with a variable energy price. Suppliers can therefore not make unilateral changes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u140	Madam Minister, I understand what you are saying about indexation parameters, but there are also suppliers who have chosen to use a formula based on the final position of the market on a specific day. This means, for example, that there is a supplier using the index of the month before delivery and using the first trading day after the twentieth calendar day of the month to decide what the parameter is for the next three months. The supplier in question now happens to have put on the market a formula whereby a discount was applied to the index rate at which that discount is greater today than the quotation that this parameter has. I will send you the details of this by e-mail. This means that the supplier will in principle charge a negative energy price for that particular product for three months. My question was inspired by that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u141	Madame Minister, your Dutch colleague, Minister Wiebes, reported through a letter to the Dutch Parliament that, among other things, there is a delay in the transition from low-caloric gas to high-caloric gas due to the corona crisis. On 2 April, the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany and France held consultations on this subject. Minister Wiebes also indicated that there would be a better view of the exact delay by June. We are talking about a delay in implementation, when everything has been shut down in France and no new initiatives are being launched in Germany, but the existing ones are being continued. I have a number of questions for you. Firstly, we know that the implementation of a number of cases has an impact on the distribution network, but it is important to know what message Belgium gave at the consultations on 2 April and what the prospects are at present. Secondly, Minister Wiebes states that his task force reports twice a year to the Dutch Parliament on progress. Can you report on this at regular intervals to our committee in a similar way, given the strategic importance of gas supply?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u142	Mr Wollants, firstly, in the context of COVID-19, all Belgian distribution system operators have decided, as a precaution, to limit physical contact between their employees on the one hand and their customers on the other. This means that non-urgent work with a house visit is suspended until further notice. The conversion method requires a reduction in operating pressure before one can convert to rich gas. Depending on the type of distribution network, this reduction is achieved either by replacing individual pressure regulators or by an adjustment in the neighbourhood cabins. In the case of networks with individual pressure regulators, their replacement requires an intervention from the user at home, as the regulator is located at the gas meter. The replacement of these regulators is part of the activities suspended until further notice. In addition, all natural gas appliances of the customers must also be subject to verification and, where appropriate, to an arrangement by an approved technician. This has an impact on the conversion phase, which is currently planned for June 2020, especially in Flanders via Fluvius, in Brussels via Sibelga and in Wallonia via Ores. Indeed, the TNBs still need to replace a large number of regulators. These work will be resumed depending on the evolution of the COOVID-19 pandemic. The date of resumption is therefore not known at the moment. On the other hand, several works of Fluxys Belgium have been suspended, including a yard in Winksele's compression station. It is essential to inject H-gas into the L-net. In view of the uncertainty that now exists regarding the re-use of the prepared works required for the conversion phase planned for 2020, it was decided to postpone the conversion from 1 June 2020 to 1 September 2020. The users concerned will be informed by their network operator by letter. Your second question is a political question. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, as you yourself have pointed out, your question falls largely within the competence of the regions. It is conceivable that I report to Fluxys on the security of supply or on the progress of the work of the transport system operator, but of course not on the progress of the conversion for each region. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u143	Mr President, Minister, that already gives a clearer picture. We are of course very pleased if you are already reporting on your own powers. You don't have to do that about other people's powers. If we can be kept informed of the progress made by Fluxys in this area, that will be a major step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u144	Madam Minister, it cannot be ruled out that the corona crisis will have an impact on the three wind farms currently under construction. According to the plan, the three parks would be completed in the course of 2020. That was natural, before we were confronted with the corona crisis. Parliament has already raised critical questions as to the extent to which those parks could produce energy by 2020. That's definitely relevant here. Can you tell us what the current situation means for the three parks? Were there any delays announced? What is the most realistic timing at the moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u145	Mr Wollants, according to my administration, there are currently no concrete signs of delays in the construction and recruitment of the parks under construction, particularly Northwester 2 and Seamade, which is a merger of the Seastar and Mermaid parks. In the parks the situation is closely monitored, in consultation with my administration, to evaluate and remedy the negative impact of the measures on the processes for building the parks. The yards depend on the availability of persons and goods. For the recruitment of the parks, the following deadlines have been set so far, of course without prejudice to delays due to the COOVID-19 crisis. Northwester 2 is expected to be fully engaged on 2 May 2020. Since all turbines were installed, no delay in full production is expected by the scheduled date. For Seamade, it is stated today that as long as the necessary goods and personnel can be transported through the relevant ports at home and abroad, planning can be maintained. The full production of Mermaid and Seastar is expected at the end of August 2020 and at the end of November 2020 respectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u146	Madam Secretary, that's good news. I feared that it would not be obvious to continue working there, given, among other things, the supply of materials and the fact that social discrimination is not evident to the crew members of ships. I am glad that my fears are unfounded and that the planned timing can continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u147	The government's measures to prevent the spread of the coronavirus also have an impact on electricity consumption in our country. According to Elijah, the average electricity consumption is currently 16% lower. At certain times consumption even falls to 25%. According to Elia's figures, a slightly larger decrease can be observed for consumers connected to the distribution network (17%) than for Elia's 149 industrial customers directly connected to the high voltage network (14%). The difference is, in their view, a result of the intensified corona measures which have a greater impact on sectors linked to the distribution network, possibly partly offset by increased consumption in households due to teleworking. The corona crisis also has an impact on the price of electricity on the short-term market. Both in Belgium and in our neighbouring countries there is sufficient electricity production and demand is decreasing. This causes the price to fall. My questions to the Minister are: 1. It can be established that the reduced electricity consumption is gradual. What effect could a reduction in the corona measures, according to the Minister, have when stores and businesses, all restart at the same time? Will a restart create a high pressure and therefore an imbalance of the electricity system or are no problems expected? 2. According to the Minister, are there sufficient margins to keep the system in balance if after the corona crisis companies start their production again massively? Why shouldn't I? 3. There is sufficient electricity production both in Belgium and in our neighbouring countries. Renewable energy takes precedence over the grid. Is there currently an oversupply of production on the Belgian network? Could this lead to a reduction in production in wind and solar parks, or could Belgian nuclear power plants, through possible modulation, partially reduce production? What initiatives will the Minister take?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u148	Mrs Dierick, the adoption of the corona measures has indeed had an effect on economic activity, which has led to a reduction in electricity consumption. Electricity market players anticipated this effect by taking measures to balance their portfolio, taking into account the reduction in electricity demand. The balance of the network was thus ensured without major problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u149	Currently, existing market mechanisms are sufficient to ensure compliance with network balancing and management of the reactive. Moreover, the system operator has not yet notified me of any apparent problematic situation. The abolition of the corona measures will result in a revival of economic activities, leading to an increase in electricity consumption. The abolition of these measures will be the subject of a government communication. The expected increase in electricity consumption can therefore be foreseen by the players in the electricity market. They will therefore be able to take appropriate measures to balance their portfolio. This will ensure the balance of the network. There is sufficient margin to ensure the expected recovery of electricity consumption after the end of the corona measures. The production units that were available before the crisis and are now being shut down remain available. They have not been dismantled. The network operator's analysis of security of supply has not revealed any specific problems in the coming months. The wholesale electricity market is governed by the law of supply and demand. Apart from the scarcity problem, this is sufficient to give the signals that ensure that the most appropriate means of production are selected to meet the demand. It should be noted that the day-ahead market has experienced a few hours since the quarantine measures in which the closing price was negative. This means that the producers selected on this market to cover the hourly demand found it more advantageous to pay for their production than to close it. This reflects the fact that they take into account the costs of re-launching installations with the technical constraints for shut-down, re-starting units or the fact that some producers receive production aid which encourages them to produce under all circumstances. The existing market mechanisms therefore ensure the selection of the economically most optimal means of production with regard to the level of expected electricity consumption and no public intervention is necessary at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u150	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. I understand from your answer that there are no problems at the moment to ensure balance, but also later when everything starts up again. Of course, this has its impact on prices. It must have been the case with previous questions that there are a lot of negative prices. Renewable energy has also been switched off, while our nuclear power plants continue to operate in full swing. We need to think about it to see which is the right way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u151	Minister, I note that a number of questions relate to the impact of the corona on energy consumption and energy prices. Apparently, your cabinet had proposed that the questions be grouped together in order to have a global debate, but that was not accepted. I suspect that some Members will be asking questions on the same subject. We could have had a more dynamic debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u152	Mr President, if I may allow a reply or a start of reply. I agree with you; there are two things to consider. First, I have a new collaborator who supports me in this exercise. He took office on 5 April. It is Mr Bernard Ligot with whom all Members of Parliament can talk. Secondly, as I understand it, there was a renumbering of the questions last night, and so Parliament's vision and that of the cabinet could not be harmonised to allow this debate and so I am sometimes asked to answer the same thing several times. I'm sorry. We'll try to do better next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u153	At the end of March 2018, the government adopted its federal energy strategy. It was built of six axes. One was to monitor and evaluate the objectives and set up a Federal Energy Committee to that end. In this way, we could explore the possibility of achieving the core exit in preparation in a feasible way. As far as I am aware, a preliminary draft law for the establishment of the Committee was drawn up in July 2018. The Committee would be composed of representatives of the federal government, the Regions, employers and industry, who could give their opinions. The Committee would then submit a report to you and to the Chamber of Representatives. For me, it has been quiet for too long around the Federal Energy Committee which has an important task. Madam Secretary, what is the state of play regarding the establishment and work of the Federal Energy Committee? In what way do you monitor progress in the elaboration of the various elements of the federal energy strategy? What's the latest?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u154	Mr President, as regards the monitoring of the federal contribution to the achievement of the objectives of the inter-federal energy pact, indeed, at the request of a government party, in this case the N-VA, which conditioned its agreement to this pact on the creation of the committee to which you are referring, the government adopted on 20 July 2018 a preliminary bill establishing an energy monitoring committee. The opinion of the Council of State was delivered on 17 October 2018. The Council of State's opinion involved changes to the draft, which meant a new move to the Council of Ministers or the concertation committee. But, as you know, shortly thereafter, the government lost a partner and ended up in business, which means that it was unable to act on this draft bill, or in any case, to continue the procedure until its end in order to present to Parliament a bill enriched with remarks or responding to the remarks of the Council of State. Notwithstanding this, the monitoring of our commitments and the security of supply of our country are ensured by the Energy DG of the SPF Economy, on which, as you know, I have the tutelage. This monitoring is also done with the help of Elia and CREG. The absence of this monitoring committee does not therefore prevent the federal government from continuing its work in favour of the energy transition. This is proof of the Government's extensive work in supporting the deployment of the offshore and the establishment of the capacity compensation mechanism to support the storage, renewable and gas-fired power projects needed to ensure our security of supply at all times, in the medium and long term, when we can no longer rely on nuclear power plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u155	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I understand that the monitoring will be carried out by you from now on. In doing so, I think it is important to do so in a very credible and comprehensive way. In fact, in the whole of the core step, the element of monitoring is crucial in order to continue to look at everything. We are therefore looking forward to further monitoring of the energy strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u156	Madam Minister, I have already heard your answer to Mrs Dierick's question today, so I will not repeat that the corona crisis has a serious impact on electricity and gas consumption, the percentages of which are known, and consequently on prices. My questions are about different groups affected by these price changes. Consumers, as well as those who are reducing energy consumption, can benefit from recent price reductions. Madam Secretary, do you intend to advise those companies and families to review their contracts? If so, how? The corona crisis hits two parties in a negative way. Suppliers are the first party, as suppliers have purchased energy at much higher prices than current prices and today face a significantly reduced energy demand. As a result, they have to sell their energy at a loss at dumped prices. In addition, suppliers face a lot of additional credit risks, as there are a lot of unpaid invoices due to the corona crisis. The suppliers also bear a risk for the entire invoice, whereas they actually only deliver the energy. That energy component represents 30% of the total electricity bill, but the suppliers also bear the risk to the other components, such as the levy, fees and network charges. Madam Minister, the sector is asking to what extent these components and fees are borne by those responsible, including network operators. A second group affected in a negative way is producers. There is much less demand and as a result there are much less revenue. In Mrs Dierick's question, it was pointed out that we have seen a cut-off from renewable energy producers because of low demand and negative prices. However, I noticed that in neighbouring countries, for example Germany and France, the production of nuclear power plants was reduced. Unlike our neighbouring countries, wind energy produced electricity. Madam Minister, is this in line with the electricity law which states that priority should be given to production plants using renewable energy sources? Was Article 8 (1) of the Electricity Act respected?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u157	Mr President, your question is very complex. She is in an interesting way. It is the beginning of a debate that could have taken place. I understand very well that all of you, not just you, brought these questions to the carpet. It is of course up to you to organise the work of the committee. It would be interesting, in the near future, to hold such a debate. First question. If I forget it, you'll come back to me. Electricity in wholesale markets is at the lowest price. For a long time, the price has never been so low. It is true that for the consumer, the invoice does not consist of the obligation or translation of the obligation to pay only the supply of electricity, but also the transport, distribution and support of renewable energy. It may therefore be important to take advantage at some point of a new contract, with lower prices for electricity, in order to reduce this item. Of course, if there is an advantage or a right on the one hand, which is to renew your contract after one year, there is an obligation and a disadvantage on the other. Indeed, suppliers and producers find themselves in a situation they had not anticipated. Having already purchased quantities of energy one, two or three years ago, they end up with changes in contracts and sales at a loss, particularly in the formulae of variable contracts. This question must be able to be assessed in the wake of the crisis. The crisis is not going to last, at least I hope, for months and months. It will require an accurate understanding of what it represents as losses to producers and suppliers. Everyone in this crisis, even if there is state aid in the overall sense of the word, coming from both the federal and the regions, is going to lose something. It is necessary to know reason to keep in relation to what is lost due to a case of force majeure. That is not a definitive answer. It's a beginning of an answer. This certainly requires a more in-depth debate. On the other hand, there is no reason to help some and not to help others. There's a balance to be found. It is very difficult in this government, which has an exceptionally difficult task to accomplish, to find this delicate balance. With regard to the issue of energy production and the priority of renewables in the Merit Order, I have not received any signals in Belgium which indicate that the law would not have been respected in the Merit Order in view of the circumstances of the decrease in electricity consumption in our country. I have not had a return on this issue and I therefore intend to go further in my research on the subject. Did I forget anything?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u158	You answered spontaneously, without reading any text, what I appreciate. You can see that this committee needs a global debate on the impact of coronavirus. I thought all the questions on this subject would have been brought together in a topical debate. We now know why this is not the case. I think the government needs to be proactive, especially with regard to the fate of the electricity suppliers who are in difficulty. You have received letters from them on this subject. If the crisis continues, I fear it will have an impact on this sector. We will see, in the order of work next week, when we could plan a commission dedicated to coronavirus and its impact on the energy market. I propose to postpone my third question (No 55004851C) until we have this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u159	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u160	Debates of the European Parliament 55004851C is thus postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Senesael's 55003742C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u161	Mr President, Minister, energy suppliers submit their claim for the social tariff to the CREG by 31 March each year. It concerns a one-off annual claim, as provided for in the royal decrees applicable. After the submission, there is still some time left to pay the claim because the CREG carries out a number of checks on the legality of the claim. In addition, progress is also made to the CREG on the federal contribution as regards the part of irrecoverable claims. The federal contribution system provides for suppliers to be able to obtain compensation for what they have not been able to recover. The President has already pointed out that there is some cash flow impact among energy suppliers, partly due to the increase in dubious debtors. Madam Minister, with regard to social tariff claims, can the CREG advance its repayments and/or work with advances? Or are there other possibilities, so that the amounts eventually go faster to the suppliers? My question is somewhat based on other suggestions made, in particular that the government would pay its invoices in time to support the cash flow of companies. Of course, the government pays not so much invoices here, but we may be able to do something small to reduce the cash flow of suppliers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u162	Mrs van der Straeten, refunds to suppliers cannot be brought forward, nor can a system of advances be set up. The control procedure of the annual claims, inter alia by means of sampling, and the sufficient stiffening of the funds that takes place each quarter through the transmission system operators, make it impossible for a previous refund to be made. Energy suppliers received an extra month to submit their declaration. The payment of the claims is foreseen each year at the end of October, in accordance with the Royal Decree of 29 March 2012 laying down the rules for determining the costs of applying the social rates and the rules of intervention for taking them into account. This will continue to be the case this year, despite subsequent submission by some suppliers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u163	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply, which is disappointing. I suspect the answer comes from the minister of the CREG. After all, it is the CREG that provides for the reimbursement. I therefore assume that the Minister has asked the answer to the CREG and that the CREG has given the proposal for a reply. Mr President, I propose that we question the CREG on this matter. It's a difficult situation for everyone. There is a fear that the financial stability of suppliers, and certainly of small suppliers, will be compromised. The public authorities and the CREG should therefore consider what contribution can be made. If we could advance the payment and work with an advance payment system, it would be worth a drink. These are extraordinary times for everyone. If I had asked my question in non-corona times, I would have been given this answer and I would have concluded that we differed. However, we are now experiencing exceptional circumstances. Our regulator, the CREG, needs to be involved in exceptional circumstances and see what it can do. I understand that the funds have not been sufficiently choked. However, creative financing solutions may also be found for this. So the answer is business as usual in exceptional circumstances, which shows little empathy for a sector that is also struggling. Mr President, I will make a move and suggest that we also put the question directly to the CREG and that the CREG also informs the committee/Parliament directly, as we ultimately also have supervisory powers over the regulator.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u164	Mrs van der Straeten, we will. Since your question is also in line with what I have just said, in particular the impact of corona on suppliers, I suggest that we hold a debate in committee on the subject within the shortest possible time. This is likely to happen digitally, including the digital presence of the CREG. In this way, everyone can explain their position and see how the government and politics can also take measures in this sector to give everyone some perspective. That is the question that is being asked. There are several dimensions to the debate. However, we can have that debate with the CREG. We shall look into the matter next week in the framework of the arrangements. That debate is one of the first things we have to deal with with the committee. Are you okay with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u165	Mr President, I agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u166	Mr Verduyckt, you also have questions that are corona-related, about the relay policy and the falling demand for electricity. Can you put both questions together so that the Minister can answer both immediately?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u167	That's good. They also fit perfectly with your suggestion from earlier. Moreover, my second question has already been dealt with in part implicitly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u168	With my question on the post-coronarelance policy, I would like to make one more move, because in the coming months we will have a lot of discussions on what needs to be done. In economic terms, a great deal of action will be needed. For sp.a we must not lose sight of what we were doing, and that was the green transition with the implementation of the agreement we concluded in Paris, and of the European Green Deal, quite the contrary. In my opinion, even a combination of the two is absolutely necessary. Can the Minister give us a first look? Denmark has already called for the EU Green Deal to be used as a roadmap for the post-corona period. Other countries have already supported this, not Belgium. Why isn't the call supported? I'll add my next question right away. Indeed, the President has already raised the falling demand for electricity. I have tried to follow the Minister's answer, but at the moment I am still on another committee and I have a third screen open for translation, as if I were working in the airport control tower. I understood from the Minister's reply that modulation of nuclear power plants is possible. But Electrabel says it currently cannot carry out the modulation through the corona measures. What's that supposed to mean? Can the Minister give us some more information on this? The other aspects have already been dealt with, and I understand from the President's suggestion that we will discuss all this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u169	Tackling the health crisis is indeed an absolute priority today. Of course, you agree with that. But while we are dealing with the current COOVID-19 crisis, we must not forget that, on top of that, there are a number of crises that will have an even greater and permanent impact on our well-being and health if we do not intervene in a timely and effective manner. I fully agree that the support measures and investments needed in the short term to save the economy must be fully consistent with the green transition. I would also like to point out that the transition to a climate-neutral and sustainable society will, in any case, bring about a large investment agenda. So we can hit two birds with one stone. We must not delay the necessary investments for the green transition, as they can stimulate economic activity. Many studies point out that climate and environmental investment generate additional jobs, economic activity and innovation benefits, just as we need to restore our economy from the pandemic. For example, the Federal Planning Bureau, commissioned by my administration in 2015, already calculated that climate investment will generate net 80,000 additional jobs by 2030 and an increase in GDP by 2% compared to a reference scenario. I will therefore, from my role, ensure that the Belgian and European recovery plans fully subscribe to and rely on our long-term objectives, with the Paris Agreement, the European Green Deal and the SDGs as guiding frameworks. Moreover, Belgium has long argued at European level that all measures and policy frameworks should be in line with our climate and environmental objectives by mainstreaming the objectives in all policy areas and initiatives. I therefore fully welcome the initiative by Denmark to remind everyone at European level that the European Green Deal should form the framework of all our policy initiatives, including the recovery plans in the context of the COVID-19 crisis. The European Heads of State or Government also expressed their support for a policy in this direction as early as March. Since in our country all levels of government have to give their consent before we can sign a letter on behalf of Belgium, we have not yet been able to support the Danish initiative. The internal discussions are still ongoing, but I very much hope that we will soon be able to support this initiative, as the message is in line with the position already taken by Belgium in the context of the European Green Deal. I come now to your second question. 55004879C. Mr Verduyckt, I have already answered some of the questions to your colleagues. I don't know if you could hear my answers. Mr President, it is always in relation to the proposal for a debate that you are making.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u170	Can you live with the idea that we will resume this debate with several colleagues, Mr Verduyckt?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u171	Absolutely, I will also reread the answer to your questions. I had one more question. At Electrabel it is said that it cannot be modulated in the context of the corona measures. What's that supposed to mean? Is it about workers' health? Do we have to meet a certain level of energy security? That's not clear to me. Do you have eyes on that, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u172	Madam Minister, my question concerned the situation in Germany and France, where nuclear power production has been reduced, which has not been done in our country; we have turned to wind energy (in connection with the law). Mr Verduyckt refers to statements in the press, in which Electrabel said that it is not possible to reduce this nuclear production. That's the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u173	Mr. Chairman, you also asked that question. The answer I can give is as follows. That is what I am told: given the VOCID-19 measures, nuclear power plants cannot, for the moment, ensure modulation of their production capacity. Indeed, the operators of the plants, whose number is limited by the VOCID-19 measures, are currently concentrating on basic production, while modulation requires additional staff. Actually, it's a personnel problem. By non-modulation, in particular, and other elements on which I have already replied, prices on the short-term market are lower or even negative. For example, up to EUR 100 per megawatt/hour on Easter Monday. Moreover, due to the decline in electricity consumption, it appears that suppliers have over-covered themselves and have to resell their excess volumes at a much lower price than expected. That is the question that I was addressing earlier spontaneously with several of you, including the President. This could lead suppliers out of the market, which is not good, as I said, in seeking a balance between the benefit created by lower electricity prices for customers who would establish new contracts with the same or another supplier, and lower revenues for suppliers and/or producers. Mr President, you asked the same question as Mr Verduyckt about France and Germany. I forgot to answer you. For their part, they have modulated the power of their power plants. They have succeeded in doing so, while here we are told – and I remain very cautious – that it is an additional staff problem that is lacking, because of the crisis. It is important to know that the CREG is very attentive to this problem and that it wrote to ENGIE last Friday to ask why no modulation was applied. Mr Verduyckt, the reduction in renewable production has been desired by producers, given the economic context. Earlier, I told you I didn't see any priority issues in the merit order. The explanation I was given is that prices are low, and sometimes negative. This is why some renewable means of production decide not to inject and not to produce. Before you inject, you obviously have to produce. In a liberalised market, however, one cannot be forced to produce against one's will.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u174	Madam Minister, I look forward to that discussion with the CREG, because that will indeed be very useful. I do not want to bully the nuclear industry. I am afraid, just like Mrs van der Straeten earlier, that our small suppliers will find it very difficult. We can indeed refer to the freed-up energy market, but we also have every interest in ensuring that as many players as possible are active in the long term. That that is not guaranteed is a bit my fear. It will therefore be very useful to discuss this further. Madam Minister, with regard to my second question, I welcome your answer. With your approach, you think you're gonna hit two birds with one stone. That is indeed the line to follow. When it comes to corona, we're all talking about flatting the curve. On the climate front, we have been flatting the curve for years. Let us continue to do so. Madam Minister, I hope that our country will support the Danish initiative, which I believe is indeed the way forward. Thank you for the answer and I look forward to the next debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u175	Minister, it is a shame not to have organized a debate on the post-coronavirus crisis because there are several overlapping issues. It would be interesting to organise such a discussion within the framework of the Climate Committee. You have already provided some answers to my colleague. I'm glad to hear you're in favour of signing? of Denmark, although we are very concerned that it has not yet been signed by Belgium when it only contains commitments that have been requested previously and to which we have subscribed. Today, our main objective is to get out of the crisis. We have to worry about the future because we know that in terms of climate, we have to anticipate the long-term effects as much as possible. The recovery plan will therefore be decisive. It is important that economic revitalization measures serve as a stepping stone to an urgent and indispensable energy transition. Several measures seem essential to us in the context of this recovery plan, for example: - condition state aid for recovery with environmental requirements; - mobilising public expenditure towards green investment and renewable energy; - a sound economic recovery in line with the Green Deal and the Paris Agreement; - involve the environmental movement starting with the Climate Coalition in the development of the recovery policy. An important meeting at European level will take place on 23 April. European decision-makers will have to approve the recovery plan and the Coronabonds. Madam Minister, has your government already adopted a clear position on Belgium at this meeting? Does this position take into account climate concerns? More broadly, a debate would be welcome on the cancellation of COP26 and on the crucial role Belgium could play in climate recovery at the international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u176	Dear colleague, the current priority is the management of the health crisis in order to minimize its impact on our health and lives, as well as the short-term socio-economic impact. It is with this in mind that, in parallel with health measures, a whole series of short-term measures have been taken to protect as much as possible the purchasing power of citizens and the liquidity of our companies, in order to avoid the cessation of activity due to the crisis. At the same time, we must also begin to prepare the recovery measures in the medium and long term. In our view, actions to preserve biodiversity, the environment and the climate are also an important element of the post-COVID-19 recovery. It is a synonym for us to revive activity in labour-intensive sectors, such as the massive renovation of buildings or the development of renewable energies. This also corresponds to the development of a largely circular economy that promotes short circuits and sharing economy and functionality. In this context, I strongly support the need to implement the European Green Deal. Moreover, at the Health Crisis Summit on 26 March, the European Heads of State unanimously declared the need to integrate the clean transition into European recovery measures. You set out a series of avenues for moving forward in this direction, and I thank you for that. I cannot at this stage of crisis management move on to each of them. On the other hand, I will ensure that they are explored and promoted within the government to ensure that the post-COVID-19 recovery is consistent with a clean and fair transition. I have the impression that the meeting on 26 April at European level will not take place or be postponed. As I am not sure, I will inquire and come back to you to say it with certainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u177	Madam Minister, thank you. It is already reassuring to see that we are expressing ourselves in the same direction to put the issue of the Green Deal and climate goals at the heart of the resumption. In connection with the question asked by my colleague Ben Achour this morning about the report of the League of Human Rights, this transition must be fair. You're talking about a big renovation plan. It's also something we care about, as you know. Subsidy will have to be severely limited to fossil fuels. State aid will have to be conditional on the fulfilment of climate commitments. It'll be an arm of iron during which you'll have to hold on. I heard yesterday from your colleague Bellot about the issue of empty flights and the revival of the air sector. That wasn't very reassuring. Rather, it was from a perspective where post-crisis would be the same as before, unless the sector changed. But it is really up to us and you, the decision-makers, to be at the heart of the impulses to give in the right direction. I therefore welcome the forthcoming debate on this issue in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u178	Mrs Schlitz, my colleague will seek the answer to the question concerning the summit of 23 April. We will return to you if we do not have the answer before the end of this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u179	All right! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u180	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Wollants' 55004890C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u181	Madam Minister, I believe that many colleagues have over the last few days received the signal from the FEBEG, which unites energy suppliers. They are concerned during this corona crisis. Indeed, they note that the longer the invoices remain unpaid, both from consumers affected by falling purchasing power and from SMEs facing cash flow problems. The FEBEG is a requesting party to spread the risk of unpaid invoices throughout the value chain. In practice, 70% of the energy bill is a tax invoice with distribution and transport costs, but also all kinds of taxes in favour of the government. Energy companies must advance the full amount in full before they receive the money from their customers. Madam Minister, do you share the FEBEG's concerns about the slower paid energy bills? Are you considering entering into the FEBEG's proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u182	Mr Van Lommel, the President made a proposal to hold a debate next week with the CREG on the reduction of electricity prices and their consequences. Mr Van Lommel, I do not know if you have been attending the meeting since the beginning, but I have had the opportunity to answer these questions several times. It is not that I refuse to answer you, but I want to avoid repetitions, knowing that we will have this debate next week. I can inform you that a mail from the FEBEG has reached me by exposing me to everything you tell me. To one or other of your colleagues, I have already replied that the reduction in electricity prices represents an opportunity for the consumer, while causing difficulties for producers and suppliers. In this context, it would be interesting to benefit from the lighting of the CREG or any other stakeholder in order to respond in a balanced way to a case of force majeure which results in a fall in prices that can legitimately benefit consumers and the unexpected nature of this crisis in terms of financial returns for producers and suppliers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u183	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Of course, we must certainly wait for the debate to take place. My question is not so much about the falling electricity prices as about the concerns about the payment of electricity bills. Of course, we will take part in the debate, which is necessary, especially in the current exceptional times.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u184	Mr. Chair, Minister, while the animal origin of the VOCID-19 is no longer in doubt, scientists are warning us by drawing our attention to the fact that other pandemics can spread in the future, if we continue to make ever greater use of the planet's resources and the destruction of ecosystems. VOCID-19 is called a zoonose, i.e. an infectious or parasitic disease transmissible from a vertebrate animal to humans. According to the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), 60 per cent of human infectious diseases have this origin. However, in a 2016 UNEP report, we can read that "the emergence of zoonotic diseases is often associated with environmental changes that are usually the result of human activities, from land-use change to climate change". At the end of this pandemic, we will note that the links between public health and environmental protection have never been closer. Deforestation, intensive farming, intensive breeding, concrete, etc., all leads to an increased change in the balance between species and to a degradation of our biodiversity. Minister, after this crisis, what measures are you going to put in place to try to reverse the trend of deterioration in our environment that directly affects our health, as is evident from the spread of VOCID-19? Do you not see this as an opportunity to create a task force for the preservation of our biodiversity in Belgium, to reflect on a new model, with a special reflection on our relationship with natural ecosystems and the protection of our public health? It is not only about our environment but also about our health.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u185	Mr President, if Mrs Schlitz is still taking part in this committee meeting, I would like to tell her that the European Council of 23 April is confirmed. So it will take place. Mrs Hanus, in December 2019, I introduced the conference "Dead or Alive: Towards a Sustainable Wildlife Trade" during which links between public health and environmental protection were clearly highlighted. A multidisciplinary and cross-cutting approach "A world, a health" is needed to take into account the impacts on human health, animal health and environmental health associated with loss of biodiversity and the destruction of ecosystems. The policy briefs of this Conference were published on 1 April by the Belgian biodiversity platform which was co-organising with the Health FPS. They resume the exchanges of these two days of work, which can serve as a basis for a broader reflection on measures also aimed at the causes of the current crisis. As far as the task force is concerned, already in December, I was considering a task force to answer the questions of this Conference, but here we are facing a more important question which requires reflection and measures that go beyond the sustainable wildlife trade. Our production and consumption patterns have impacts on biodiversity in Belgium and beyond, as explained in the federal campaign you may know, BeBiodiversity, which I launched in 2017. A European response should be developed in part within the framework of the Green Pact. The creation of a task force is still under consideration, but it must be part of the existing environmental and health coordination mechanisms to avoid duplication. In any case, these issues are fundamental, because they are not only about our environment, but also about our health.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u186	Madam Minister, thank you. You conclude as I had concluded myself. I see that we are on the same page on the vision between health and biodiversity. We must draw the conclusions of this difficult period that we are living on a global scale. On this subject, Madam Minister, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen who are still connected, next week, on our order of business, I will raise the idea of returning to the topic of biodiversity. It was a theme that we intended to address in our calendar. I will make it a point of honour that we can link up with health and public health issues. Good end of the day to everyone!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u187	Madam Minister, this question concerns negative prices due to overcapacity, four weekends in a row. This, of course, poses a particular challenge in the electricity market. There are customers who have unset contracts and who also effectively terminate them. Renewable energy will then be switched off while nuclear power plants continue to operate, creating undesirable price effects. Yesterday, ENGIE confirmed in De Tijd that it is acting at the request of Elijah. So I see that if Elijah asks, or if there is a problem of balance, it can be arranged, but apparently not if the market asks. This also has an impact on the priority for renewable energy. Has there been any consultation with Elijah and the producers to see how market forces can still be guaranteed and/or optimised? How can priority be given to renewable energy, as enshrined in European directives and our national legislation? What solutions are possible in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u188	Mr President, of course I do not want to frustrate any request. I realize, as you yourself have pointed out, as well as others, that a global debate is really important in this area. I had the opportunity to respond earlier. I do not know whether Mrs Van der Straeten has heard my reply to Kris Verduyckt on the modulation of nuclear power plants, on the one hand, and the cessation of voluntary production by renewables, on the other. That's part of the answer, probably. No doubt that in a short time, in the organisation of your work, it will be important to have a complete view from the operators or institutions with which I usually work, that is, Elia and CREG, to complete our reflection. You have all very intelligently addressed all facets of the whole debate through your questions. It would have been useful to bring this together to get a comprehensive answer. This answer would in any case have to be subdelegated to me to question those institutions with which I work. I see clearly and clearly that we need to go further in the analysis of this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u189	Mr President, Minister, I have indeed heard the answers to the questions addressed to previous colleagues. I didn't see why I shouldn't ask my question, since no colleague has mentioned Elijah's aspect. The fact that these questions were tabled by my fellow Members was, of course, clear longer than yesterday. A choice has been made not to group the questions. A choice has been made not to have a global debate. If I now get the answer that there will be a structural debate later, it will be a bit of a waste of time what we are doing here, Mr President. We've been at it for six hours now, and then I'm gonna get kicked out of here with a brat. One can't, the other can't. What can be done? Madam Minister, of course there must be a pertinent debate, but that is not something you will be firing in order to get to work in the short term. Four weekends in a row, there were negative prices. Elia is a network manager who plays very briefly on the ball and observes well. We must not wait for a long and long debate here with everyone to see what is possible in the short term. It's a situation of everyone together. The burden should not fall into a particular angle alone. I am aware that it is a complex debate, with various aspects. The answers also referred to the fact that fewer people now work on nuclear sites. That is also an explanation why less can be modulated. So it is certainly not a black and white debate. There are many aspects to this. Yet market forces are important. We will have to see that, in these exceptional circumstances too, we can continue to guarantee market forces, including for renewable energy players. After all, they are the biggest victims on these weekends.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u190	Mr President, as we speak, I am not necessarily convinced that producers and suppliers are more losing than others. As I have already said, everyone loses in this crisis and not everyone has the same skills, obligations and rights. That is what complicates the debate, although it is not impossible to unravel - while remaining nuanced, of course. Like you, I do not intend to postpone the answers to the questions that actually arise. Everyone defends their point of view, but I do not yet have a 360-degree view of what is happening in the leadership of all stakeholders. That is why this issue needs to be further refined to see what possible measures need to be taken without delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u191	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you both for staying so long. Six hours in committee to answer the questions, it deserves to be stressed. The current health crisis has developed new habits. Among other things, it has had the effect of generalizing telework where possible. Major cities have put in place temporary infrastructure for pedestrians and cyclists to ensure social distancing during travel. Citizens move and shop in their neighbourhoods and more in local shops. These changes will not have to be wiped out after the crisis. On the contrary, they will have to make it possible to adapt and transform our society in depth. Moreover, the current crisis has demonstrated the importance of collective, solidarity and our environment. Nor do these pillars have any reason to disappear tomorrow. That is why we must already reflect on the society in which we want to live the day after. More than ever, the time has come to support a world that is more equitable, resilient and respectful of people and the environment, a world that is capable of resisting health and climate shocks. Indeed, despite a pandemic of coronavirus still far from being contained, recovery and economic transformation plans focused on the energy transition and the fight against climate change should now be prepared. For example, international experts agree that it is very important that governments think not only in terms of economic recovery but above all in terms of building a better future, otherwise we will again set ourselves for several decades in a model of development that is polluting, inefficient, carbonised, unsustainable and ultimately at the root of our current problems. Minister, how are you going to ensure that environmental issues and air quality remain more topical than ever after the crisis? Will the economic crisis caused by the pandemic nullify efforts to limit the effects of climate change or will it be an opportunity to orient the massive recovery plans in preparation for the energy transition, a way to accelerate this energy transition? What will be the post-crisis strategy that you will propose to the government and in the wake of Parliament? Will you maintain the objectives that we have already set ourselves, perhaps even by amplifying them, both in the National Energy-Climate Plan and in the European Green Pact?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u192	I would also like to thank you, Mr President, for your endurance during this session of questions which has been very dense and fruitful. It is true that some environmental indicators have undergone a positive development since the slowdown in economic activity caused by the health crisis, although we do not yet have a precise analysis on this subject. Let us not be wrong about this, but in the vast majority of cases these are entirely temporary effects. If we return to the business as usual before the crisis, these indicators will immediately return in a direction that may not be the desired meaning. The risk is great, indeed, that if we do not make the right decisions about economic recovery, we would be trapped in lock-in situations that would make the transition all the more difficult and costly. The recovery of the post-COVID-19 economy must indeed take the path of transition and be based on public measures, including massive public investment directed towards sectors that are conducive to this transition. The objectives and measures of the European Green Pact remain more relevant than ever. Those set out in our PNEC are as well, as are those which will strengthen it and the implementation of all the measures contained therein to raise the European target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 50% or even 55% by 2030 compared to 1990. The way in which such a stimulus plan can be organised within the government must of course be discussed. I am committed to bringing to the attention of my colleagues in the government and the regions the need to guide the recovery measures in order to promote a harmonious energy transition, a socially just energy and environmental transition. Even if these are medium- and long-term measures, we must quickly prepare for them. The first step I am thinking of, VOCID-19 or not, is to meet – as I did during their installation, and as far as their availability permits – my regional colleagues to see how they perceive, through the measures they are taking at their level, this stimulus plan and have a basis for reflection allowing me to take a further step at the federal government level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u193	Minister, thank you for your very reassuring response. On behalf of my Socialist colleagues, allow me to inform you of our availability to discuss the proposals that you will make, in consultation with the federated entities. We could eventually set up a task force to think together about this sustainable transition. Indeed, I am convinced that we must accelerate the movement in this area. The temptations and pressures will be great to reduce our ambitions. We have already seen what is happening in some European countries, such as Poland and the Czech Republic, and even the Netherlands, which were very ambitious in terms of climate issues where we feel that the temptation to go back is very strong. It is also known that after the 2008 crisis, the recovery was accompanied by a very large increase in CO2 emissions.More than 5 per cent between 2008 and 2006. Therefore, it will be necessary to be extremely vigilant not to turn around in the ease and to put in place a model that is no longer the right one. We'll really have to reinvent a model. So what you said truly rejoices me. I am convinced that we share the same conviction on this subject and that we want the same thing, even if we do not always agree on the way forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u194	Colleagues, I would like to thank you all, especially those who have followed the sitting for a long time, either from here, in Brussels, from home or from their offices. I would also like to thank the Minister for her many answers to the questions that have been asked. We are making an appointment for next week's work. We will organise a corona debate as soon as possible with the bodies that could be of interest. I wish you a healthy continuation of the day, of course. We'll see each other later, remotely or perhaps up close.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u195	Mr President, I would like to make a service communication. My intention is to send an e-mail to each member of Parliament reminding us of the questions that have been transformed into written questions. Given the number of questions, the physical distance, and the way in and out of the committee, I lost track of the scoring of what was turned into a written question. To avoid any problems, I ask parliamentarians to give us the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic146x.u196	The secretariat of the commission shall take the necessary steps. Colleagues, we have passed our first digital meeting relatively well, a meeting of six and a half hours, which is not bad. I wish you a pleasant continuation of the work.
