ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u1	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, welcome. After last weekend's riots, I found, and many with me, that the measure was full. We were able to take the initiative to convene the Committee on Home Affairs. It will be an exchange of views, not a topical debate, as only three questions have been officially tabled. With the Minister's cabinet, we agreed that we should leave the three questioners to speak first. After that, everyone can plug in. The Minister will then reply, and of course Parliament will have the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u2	Mr Minister, I think that today people will think twice before they say 'the coast is safe'. There were problems in Knokke before. Last Wednesday in Ostend there was a fake drowning in which the called emergency services were laughed at and intimidated by youth gangs who refuse to comply with the corona and other measures. Last Saturday, the Flemish coast suffered a lot. Many immigrant young people who had fallen from Brussels to our coasts behaved badly. There too, the corona rules were completely violated. A dump was left on the beach. When one hears the many testimonies of bystanders, it turns out that these gangs have been jogging tourists all day long and causing nuisance, even though there was no rising tide at all. Eventually a massive battle broke out in which parasols and other beach furniture were thrown to the police forces. We know the facts. A savior was struck on the head with a bottle. This one left a heavy head injury. Families with children fled the beach. They were unseen conditions in a holiday period on the coast. After the riots at the beach bar some of these gang members apparently still believed to be in the Brussels no-go zones. Further in the city a shop was looted. The problem is not that there would have been too many people, as I have heard here and there. The coastal cities in these corona times were very well prepared for many people with this warm weather. The problem is also not at all with tides and tides. This is already apparent from the fact that these youth gangs not only make amok on the coast, but also caused problems in Ghent that same day. In the last two weeks, the police had to march five times to the Blaarmeersen for similar incidents. Also in Willebroek there were problems with about forty immigrant young people that same afternoon. Meanwhile, De Plas in Houthalen was also closed after similar incidents. I would like to point out that last weekend on the coast is certainly not an isolated case. When we supported Mr Metsu's bill, just before the summer recess, we also warned that this would only be a shift of the problem if it were not included with more penalties and measures. That is what we have seen in the last few days. I come to my questions about your policy against this form of beach terror and police violence. I would like to do that with a quote from yourself, Minister. On 22 May, you stated the following in an interview with VTM following the violence against the police in Anderlecht: "This is not just some juvenile crime or some cat-and-mouse games with the police. This is genuine, organised crime, and I will not allow this to happen and provide additional resources and people with it. For the record, this is the last time we will see such things, such as violence against the police." I share your words, Minister, but I would like to see action taken now. What are you going to do to prevent such public violence in the future, because it will have been anything but the last time, if there is no crackdown? The mayor of Blankenberge and Knokke are already applying it and want to keep the day tourists out of the fights. I read that you would consider whether or not the additional trains to the coast should be abolished. I ask you not to give in to the misconduct of a group, because if you resort to collective punishment, the good citizen becomes the victim of the unacceptable behaviour of a group of immigrants, and we find that unacceptable. It is not intended that good citizens with good intentions who do not go abroad on holiday in these corona times, who in this heat seek a little cooling and want to go to sea with their families for a day, should suffer from the terror of a group, a large part of which appears to have a well-stocked criminal record. I therefore ask you not to give in to this and to leave these collective punishments to totalitarian regimes. Do not follow the suggestion to abolish the extra trains or to ban day-trips. Are you prepared, as an alternative, to develop a blacklist system which already exists at the recreational centres, where people who have behaved badly in the past could be denied access? Are you considering a ban on beaches or, where appropriate, a ban on trains for those who behave badly, by analogy with a ban on stadiums in football? Are you willing to work out a system with online registration so that anyone who wants to travel by train to the coast must register in advance with their identity card or with a system of wristbands? In this way, the threshold for committing criminal offences is raised and it is possible to identify offenders more quickly afterwards. Are you going to sort of filter out the rioters with identity checks? After all, everyone agrees that such youth gangs only work hard and that they should be punished harder. It is not just a matter of preventive action; it is also a matter of imposing harsher penalties. Finally, are you also prepared to accept double nationality in the event of repeated events?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u3	Mr President, the Minister, colleagues, governor, c'est prévoir; et ne rien prévoir, c'est courir à sa perte. Drivers provided and nothing foreseen is going down. The local authorities in this country, not least on the coast, started working at the start of the lockdown, not only with regard to the measures taken by the Security Council, but also to prepare for the summer. You should know that this summer is extremely important for a tourist city. Our restaurants, our merchants and our residents depend largely on that summer season, and so we need to organise this well, a task that the local authorities on the coast have taken to heart. In doing so, we are constantly looking for a balance between safety and viability for our businesses, our restaurants, our residents and our second-dwellers. Our restaurants and businesses are incredibly difficult, they have been bleeding for months, also because there is no policy at federal level worthy of that name. We have spared no effort to open the shopping streets in a safe way. We've deployed dozens of stewards, placed additional toilets and installed decontamination stations. In my city, Ostend, we started working in April to open the beaches in a safe way. That happened already in April, at a time when virologists said that mouth masks were not necessary. It has to be said, our beaches and coastal communities are well organized. They were also well organized last weekend. In Ostend we even set up a genuine registration system for the busiest beaches. This allows you to reserve a certain time lock for which you get a QR code. On the basis of this code one can access the beach. To manage this alone, we recruited 100 people in Ostend. So we have spared no effort. In May we had already calculated how many people we could safely admit on those beaches and since the introduction of that system it has been really smooth. To keep things clean and clean, we recruited 60 extra people, temporary workers and job students. Again, no effort was spared. After all, the image of a kiss town, of a coastal municipality, is extremely important for the traders, the catering operators, the inhabitants. It is not only about their living environment and city, but also about their livelihood. That's why the local authorities on the coast have taken the best out of the can. After all, we know our city and we also know the flows that start during the summer towards coastal cities and towns. We have been preparing for this since April. Corona imposes an additional limitation on us in capacity and therefore we have asked well in advance not to put in any additional trains to the coast, especially last weekend. Our plea, despite frequent consultations with SNCB, fell into deaf ears. We were promised by SNCB that the capacity utilisation of the trains to the coast would not exceed 80%. In any case, that would have been a drop on a hot plate, but it didn't matter, because this weekend the SNCB sent trains to us with a capacity utilisation rate of up to 115 %. 115% in corona times! This made SNCB the only company in this country that does not have to take into account the corona context in which every café boss, restaurant owner, shopkeeper, entrepreneur and citizen has to comply with all kinds of rules, which are more common than they like. Last Saturday the inevitable happened. The Flemish coast was flooded by tourists for whom literally was no place in corona times. In no way was the capacity of the various coastal municipalities taken into account in the supply of these tourists. However, we have raised the alarm in good time, and we have put very specific questions to the federal level. To rule is to anticipate. We were predictable. The question is why you and your colleagues left everything behind until after the weekend. The coastal communities had everything in order. The federal government stood by and looked at it and had the Flemish coast flooded by hordes of tourists, without taking into account the capacity of the coast. Minister, you are responsible for crisis management and emergency planning. I wonder why you didn't foresee this. If you did not foresee this, why did you and your colleagues not hear us, the coastal towns and coastal communities, when we sent out a request for help along all kinds of channels? You sat still, you remained silent, deafeningly silent, you choked us on the coast, no more and no less. Of course, much more has happened on Saturday than that. In Blankenberge, crapul of the purest kind, scum that we would rather lose than be rich, found it necessary to start a real battle against the police and rescue services and also against unsuspecting citizens. I really understand the fact that coastal towns and villages were hitting the mountain on Sunday. This is, after all, a problem that transcends the municipal boundaries. I understand that Sunday morning people say that stations are closing and that unwanted guests coming from the train must return immediately to the place of origin. Perhaps it is not quite kosher, and there is indeed something to be said about it. Of course, we don't want all day tourists on the coast to pay for a group of criminals. But anyone who condemns that the local authorities have called the alarm bell must free up the means to avoid such scenarios. I understand perfectly that local authorities and police zones were alarming: they were on their own, and they are still on their own. Because the federal government didn't have to count on anyone on Sunday. You yourself came no further than simply forbid the coastal communities to shut down their stations. That was your contribution on Sunday. Congratulations on that! If we take action on the coast, it is because we know our city, because we talk to the police and the local traders, because we listen to our residents and second-timers. At times like this, it is very cynical to have to hear from the federal government that we have to solve it ourselves, but that it cannot be done in the way that we have in mind. By the way, groups of immigrants have been ruining the atmosphere on our beaches for a long time. They challenge, they provoke, not only the police and our beach savers, but also, for example, fathers playing with their kids on the waterline. They're hoping someone will respond to their provocations so they can go all the way. They're just here to make an ambras. They come from Brussels, but also from Liège, La Louvière and Charleroi. Often they do so with free train tickets, the destination already pre-printed. I can imagine that last weekend in several Walloon cities and in Brussels was a lot quieter than usual. Well, thanks to all those boards. Yeah, I call things by name. It is true that groups of immigrants are involved. Soon you'll hear that you can't generalize. That's right, but that's exactly why we need to name the cases. By name and by name. Then we can't generalize. Not every ethnicity comes to play the crap. Most of them aren't, and luckily so. If our beaches are in Ostend Kraaknet, every day, it's just thanks to the work of the most diverse team you can imagine, and I'm all grateful to them. Mr Minister, before I come to my questions, I have a brief message to the virologists among us, who love to do politics. I'm guessing they're listening. Do your job as a virologist, because you have no idea how to run a coastal city. Now you call for a staycation, then everyone has to go to an amusement park, now nobody can come to the coast. At the time you announced that mouth masks were not necessary, we were already preparing for the summer on the coast. Now you think, dear virologist, that entrepreneurship on the Flemish coast should also be destroyed. We thank you for that, too. Shoemaker, stick to your reading. We can perfectly organise coastal tourism, but then we need sufficient support, especially from the federal level, when challenges such as Brussels criminals cross our city borders. That is why, Minister, I would like to know from you what you are going to do in concrete terms to avoid this kind of misery, so that this would not happen again next weekend and the next few days? I'd also like to launch a call. You are responsible for the crisis approach. I would like to call on you not to point the finger at us, like last Sunday, and to say what we should not do with our stations. I would like to call on you today to work on an adapted transport plan for SNCB, which limits the number of passengers and the number of trains to the coast and adapts to the capacity of our coastal towns and cities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u4	Mr President, Minister, last weekend was not a model of what holiday should look like in our own country in the current corona context. Despite the many preparations and efforts of the local authorities, it went a few times thoroughly wrong. On the one hand there was the great influx of people in certain places, on the other hand some bathers felt it necessary to go on the fist with beach savers and police. That it would be crowded on the coast, we could have foreseen. The fact that the local police zones could use additional support was no surprise either. We could have anticipated this situation. There are several possibilities for this. When you talk about the coast, you talk about different police zones and different local authorities. Then we need a super-municipal coordination. Apart from the many efforts made locally, coordination was essential. If there is one person responsible for this coordination now, it is a provincial governor who could have foreseen this, in consultation with you and your services, such as the Crisis Centre and the federal police. There should have been much more support from the federal police in the coastal zone, despite the many efforts that have already been made, despite the many good work done by local police zones, complementing many other areas from West Flanders and other parts of our country. We need to apply the ban consistently to coastal rioters. We should also see if there is any possibility of extending this beyond the municipal areas. Together with the parquet, we need to look at a lick-on-piece policy and an application of the rapid law. I would therefore like to congratulate the people for the last few days. The efforts have been made. Minister, I have two specific questions for you. What police capacity have you provided to support the local zones for the expected busy weeks on the coast? What agreements were made with the governor of West Flanders for the general approach to coastal events during this very special summer?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u5	Mr President, I would like to thank you for convening the committee, because the events of the past weekend have made many people who have followed the measures very much. We're in a difficult situation and we're out of a lockdown. People have given the best of themselves and are now looking forward to a day at the sea to relax. There, however, they are confronted with rioters who spoiled it for everyone. We condemn the fact that these people must be dealt with. I have the impression that the police have done their job well and I hope that the court will follow. At the same time, however, I am asking myself questions when I read that these are people who, at a very young age, already have very serious criminal offences on their criminal record. If there is no follow-up, then the preventive efforts will not be successful either. However, I should also like to warn against using this to put a very large group of people on the same footing. I hear it said that this always happens with the immigrant community, and that one does not condemn or generalize when talking about the immigrant community because one has to name the problems. How do you think the immigrant community feels when it's pronounced here that it's always the immigrant community? Let me be clear: if someone has done something wrong, it must be appointed and condemned and must have consequences. However, it must not be allowed to stigmatise a very large group of people, because that way we will solve absolutely nothing. Secondly, it was no surprise that the holiday arrived and we should not ask ourselves now what happened. Minister, I assume that this has been well prepared because we are still in the federal phase until further notice. The local authorities have prepared themselves as well as possible but everyone knows that, given the difficult situation in which we find ourselves, this transcends the local level. So we needed a unit of command and control here. That doesn't mean the federal responsibilities don't exist because of this. My question is therefore very simple. What agreements were made with local authorities to support them in these exceptional and very difficult circumstances? I have been in contact with a few mayors of the coastal communities and they feel very abandoned because each mayor has to decide for himself what measures he or she takes. People don't understand that either. Today, I read again in the newspaper that police officers face even more frustration from people when they are told that they have to wear a mouth mask. Unity of command: why not take the same measure all over the coast for everyone? If one had decided that masks should be worn throughout the country, then there was no such discussion and the measure was very clear. How did they prepare themselves? What have you done, as Minister of the Interior? What agreements have you made at provincial level and to support the local areas? At the same time, we see that the local police can't handle it. It's way too much. We have had a lot of hearings in committee and we know that the local police have a shortage of manpower and budget. She's also asking for support from the federal police. There have been a lot of hearings about merging police zones. Until further notice, all this is done on a voluntary basis. Mergers are already taking place here and there, but if we go further at that pace in order to be able to work more structured and efficient and to act against such activities, I fear. The police did their best, but if it were a situation that would last a few days, it wouldn't be sustainable for our policemen. How do you look at that? Thirdly, I was a little surprised when I heard someone from the local police in Blankenberge on television explain how they would do the identity checks. Tourists of course don't all come by car to the sea, some also come by train. When the question was asked how the checks would be carried out on the people arriving by train, the man replied that they would carry out the identity checks on the basis of the profiles of the rioters on the coast. The question then arises as to whether this is about ethnic profiling or not. I know that the law on police officers, which has been in force since 1992, contains directives on this matter and that the police can carry out an identity check when they think there is a danger. Shouldn't there be clearer and more structured guidelines in this area? Right now it's happening to me, after all, on gut feeling. How do you look at that? Is it not important to adopt a more targeted approach to ethnic profiling in this area instead of giving priority to the gut feeling, resulting in a different approach depending on the police area?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u6	Minister, first of all I would like to tell you how much I love going to the Belgian coast. I still feel at home. I feel like I'm still in my country. I feel like I'll always be allowed to go because I'm blond with blue eyes. If there was to be a check, I think I don't have a problem, since obviously the checks are based on specific criteria. That being said and to return to the Blankenberge incidents, incidents located in a municipality on the coast, it must be said that what happened there is obviously unacceptable. This is not the first time I have protested against violence against our police officers. As my colleague has just pointed out, we have learned that the troublemakers have been arrested. So the police did their job well. I believe that justice will also do its part properly, since it is a question of going to the Council Chamber this week in order to confirm whether or not these individuals remain in prison. If there is a problem located in a municipality, however, it would appear that disproportionate measures are being taken throughout the coast. Other colleagues have mentioned this, many of our country's citizens spend a single day on the coast. In many cases, these citizens come from families who have less means than others and who cannot afford to stay for several days or to pay overnight stays in hotels. These people will be targeted and will no longer be able to spend a day at the Côte while the Belgian federal government has invited the Belgians instead to take their holidays in Belgium. We are facing a problem of coherence. As far as the facts are concerned, the weekend communication left an impression of chaos. Each mayor made his own statement. There was talk of the closure of a station that did not eventually occur. There was a lack of visibility at the measurement level. In such situations, the federal government must play its part. The Minister of the Interior has a role to play in coordinating all actions to be taken in response to these incidents. A whole series of communes cover the Belgian coast and it is hoped that the same measures will apply throughout this territory. Indeed, it is the same problems that all the mayors of the Belgian coast face, linked to the pandemic and the heat wave, which causes an influx of visitors. Have you been contacted by the mayors of the communes of the Côte? Do you intend to draw up a coherent action plan and take a set of measures in consultation with the governor and the above-mentioned mayors? Have you had any contact with Minister Bellot to manage the chaotic situation of trains heading for the Coast? As my colleagues have said, these trains were crowded, so it was impossible to enforce the health measures imposed during the crisis. Are you considering limiting the number of trains or, on the contrary, increasing it, so that users have more room on trains? In short, have specific measures already been taken or will they soon be taken at the federal level?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u7	Mr President, Minister, when I take the train and meet someone who is not wearing a mouth mask, I keep asking him to do so. I would like to ask that all colleagues do the same. Of course, the primary responsibility for maintaining public order lies with local authorities. Do you have an overview of all the measures taken by the coastal mayors within the possibilities available to them? For example, were gas fines regularly written out? How do the no-shows work? It is important that the coastal mayors already make use of all the existing possibilities. Last weekend wasn't the first time that there were many people on the coast. The corona measures ensure that many countrymen spend the holiday period in our country. Among other things, in Ostend this already caused scenes that are not actually acceptable. What measures have the coastal mayors taken together to prepare for an influx of inland nationals? Were they sufficiently prepared? Did they have a joint strategy? Was there a question regarding the federal police to provide additional capacity? Have you been able to provide the requested capacity? The above levels can also, of course, take additional measures, whether or not at the request of local authorities. However, possible measures are not obvious, as we have known for a long time. Have you considered, for example, the question of closing stations? Was it considered to announce the provincial phase? The decision by some municipalities to ban all day tourists may bring peace back for a while, but that is how many people are punished who have done nothing wrong. For example, the coast is reserved for residents, people with a second stay and people with the possibility to rent something or to go to hotel. It is in no way the intention to make the coast the privilege of some. Public space, and therefore the coast, belongs to all of us. Mr. Secretary, do you believe that the prohibitions imposed by the coastal mayors on day tourists are constitutional? Can we give a broader follow-up to the resolution, which co-signed CD&V, to find a structural solution for the recreational areas, including a blacklist for ammo makers, even off the coast? Think of the soccer hooligans, where it is already in use. The rioters need to be dealt with hard. Their behavior is unacceptable. That's the problem, not the presence of day tourists. 'Cause what day-to-day tourists are mostly the victims now? Young families and pensioners in particular with a small pension, as well as a mass of young people who do mean well. The rioters must first and foremost be dealt with with with all the legal possibilities that already exist today. If necessary, they should be denied access to public transport to the coast in their home city. Can that be looked at? Of course, we expect all coastal mayors to have a uniform attitude, in which, in addition to respect for all citizens, solidarity with fellow mayors is crucial. Don't cancel trains, but look at how the festivals handle it. Why should there not be free buses next to the coastal tram that take the people from the train stations to the coastal communities where there is still plenty of space? Learn something from the festivals. They may not be here for a while now, but there is also something to learn from their approach today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u8	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when I received the invitation yesterday, I wondered why we were on this committee today. To tell justice what to do? No! The behaviour in question is obviously unacceptable. It is a question of young people undoubtedly overexcited, who have fought with police officers. These are thugs who must be convicted, prosecuted as will be the case with the intervention of investigating judges and prosecutors who know their profession. Why this meeting? To allow some to serve the good old soup of populism. We sprinkle zero tolerance for a few. There is a delicate seasoning of generalization and even stigmatization for others. And then, to digest the whole thing, one spices up the crime of facies and community relent. If that were the motives, I would not be present. If my group is represented today, it is to heighten and bring everyone back to reason. Indeed, what we have seen this weekend, beyond unacceptable behaviour, is also a flood of reactions for some disproportionate, for others completely intolerable, including on the part of the authorities: infringement of freedom of movement, stigmatization of overnight tourists, closure and reopening of stations, restricted access to residents who have a second residence, lack of coordinated reactions, in particular from the federal authorities. If we are here today, it is to remind us that the government has a duty to carry out, to frame actions and to remind certain representatives of the authority when they go too far or when they do not go where they should go. That is my question, Minister. Where was the government to coordinate? Where were you, Minister, to recall the need for coherent and proportionate action, to remind certain representatives of the authority to order? Where was your colleague, Mr Bellot, this weekend? Mr De Crem, as my colleagues have already pointed out, we have heard a police officer explain without the slightest complex that in Blankenberge, the police were screening, at the exit of the trains, all those who look like the young people who got on the beach and did not let them in. It wasn't a nightclub sorter who said that, it was a policeman! What is the profile of these young people? I wonder who will be turned back. The little ones? The big ones? The means? Those with a certain income or belonging to a community x or y? In any case, a police officer calmly announced the practice of ethnic profiling, the crime of faience. What do you think of that, minister? What attitude do you intend to take in this regard? As I said earlier, this chaos is the result of the lack of action and reaction. It also has the effect of stigmatizing some young people, repelling or avoiding some form of popular tourism and reserving the freshness of the Côte to those who can stay at the hotel or who own a second residence. This is tantamount to telling tourists of one day that they are not welcome to the sea, and that is unacceptable. We cannot let a fight make everyone undesirable on our Belgian coast. Minister, get out of your silence: condemn the fight, but also condemn the disproportionate management made by some at the end of this fight. It goes without saying that violence must be condemned, but there must also be condemnation of the statements made by law enforcement officials who confessed to the crime of facies. Adopt plans and measures that will allow city dwellers, young and old, regardless of their look, to spend a day at the coast for its freshness, just as they go on the banks of the Semois or in the Ardennes forests. Heat and coronavirus are difficult for everyone, and it is not by opposing or dividing that we will restore serenity, but by acting together, to allow everyone to take a good bowl of air under optimal conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the images were vengeful, and I was not very good about them. It is not the first time such images appear, but it is always frustrating and vengeful to see them. Frustrating and vengeful for the people who lay on the beach enjoying a day on the coast, a day that was ruined by a number of young people who think they can enjoy it by spoiling it for the rest. It wasn't the first time this happened. A few weeks ago young people, this time from the Netherlands, came to fight in Knokke. Even then, it was vengeful to see that there are young people who think it's okay to fight with the police and have no respect for public order. It is therefore important to name the issues. Yes, it is vengeful for the people who were there and for those who still want to go to sea and do not have a car, so they are dependent on the train and may be denied access. It is also vengeful for young people with a migration background. In my own environment, among people with a migration background, the first reaction was: "Shit, it was one of us again!" It was someone with a migration background. Yeah, I'll let you name it. I hear from a number of colleagues that it is high time we said that we are talking about immigrant young people. Yes, I'd like to confirm that with you. These were indeed young people with migration backgrounds. And then what? So what's the next step? By pronouncing it, we still have no solution. I note again that these are young people who are part of certain youth gangs and who have already committed a lot of crimes. It was the same in the past. Yesterday they were in Knokke or Blankenberge; tomorrow they might be in Bellewaerde, and when we get rid of the corona virus, they might turn up again in the nightlife. There too they come to ruin the atmosphere, harass young women and want to fight with the law enforcement services. My question is above all how we want to ensure that these youth gangs are dealt with in a structural way. After all, they ruin it for everyone. I have no problem telling you what type of young people it is. Nor do I have a problem with it when the police say that they want to check young people with "a certain profile" in the train stations. I can understand that "young people moving in a large group" is a criterion. If the police clarify this correctly, I can go along with it. It is not illogical that the police are not targeting a 65-year-old woman, but a large group of young people on their way to the coast. I am therefore curious to see how this will be dealt with in a structural manner. A final point has already been raised by a colleague: communitizing is frustrating. Okay, the kids were from Brussels. But, Mr Anseuw, they might as well have come from Antwerp. They're everywhere. The problem is even bigger than you think. So we will only be able to solve it if we dare to name it, but then we must dare to name every facet. Only if we tackle things structurally in this way will we achieve a long-term solution. Not by fishing in the hope of spinning electoral yarn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u10	Minister, it was 17 April when the mayor of Ostend, Mr Tommelein, came up with his idea of the beach passes. There is a lot to be said about this and there is a lot to be laughed at, but at least this mayor at the time had a concern that turned out to be real last weekend. There is neither a plan nor coordination for domestic tourism that logically takes a high flight because of corona and heat. The incidents that occurred last weekend on the coast are a poignant illustration of this. Ensuring everyone's safety, health and freedom of movement are matters that are expected in a rule of law. Last weekend, however, that did not work. Local, Flemish and federal, all levels have a responsibility in this approach. However, much-needed coordination is totally absent. The coastal mayors now announce their own measures individually, no doubt with the best intentions. There is the call to stop using extra trains but Minister Bellot is hardly heard and the Flemish Minister for Tourism, Mrs Demir, is also silent. There are also other places with similar problems, Berlaar and Houthalen-Helchteren but also in Wallonia with Houffalize and La Roche-en-Ardenne. Who's coordinating that? Nobody. However, Minister, you are responsible. I really hope that those colleagues who believe that splitting up would work better will think twice. We need more coordination in times of crisis, not less. Is our country really waiting for an additional consultation structure between a competent Flemish and Brussels minister, for even more powers and even fewer people who take their responsibilities politically? Ladies and gentlemen, we are now in the middle of a choice. Are we gonna let the committee come together every time there's an incident? Do we tweet every time about what we think of the ammomakers? What did the cops that hit again last Saturday have to do with that? We heard in Parliament not so long ago that more than a third of the cases of violence against the police are still being dismissed. It is quite clear that those who have crossed the line must be punished. Last weekend's rioters, regardless of their origin, place of residence or age, are among them. The relevant ministers know what to do. However, they show a lack of leadership. Wouldn't we do something about that? Another option is more ostrich politics: drop the trains to the coast and the problem disappears. However, we know that most day tourists come by car. Are we going to create more social thresholds? Only those who can afford an overnight stay at the hotel or a restaurant visit are still welcome or are we even going to collectively deny everyone access to our coasts? This mainly punishes thousands of people for the misconduct of ultimately 'just' dozens of people. That's weak policy. Will politics finally show leadership, finally pursue policies, a policy that indeed requires the necessary repressive measures for those who are out of line, but also, above all, a policy with clear agreements between the actors involved, a workable distribution plan, an efficient unit of command? Only that is the basis for a rule of law in which health, security and freedom of all can go hand in hand. My questions to you, Minister, are therefore quite simple. What have you done in advance to prevent the incidents last weekend? What lessons do you draw from this? How will you prevent new incidents? How are you going to work together structurally, off the coast and for other tourist attractions in the rest of the country, and how are you going to avoid the chaos we are seeing on the ground? In short, what is your plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u11	Minister, the facts that have occurred on some beaches on the coast are intolerable and must be condemned with the utmost firmness. It should be noted that these facts occur, once again, in open places. We have been able to debate this in the context of the text tabled by our colleague Metsu from the N-VA. The MR Group supported this text, which provides for intensified controls in outdoor areas such as swimming pools and beaches, in order to improve safety. There has been a record of serious violence committed by groups of offenders for several months. What measures are envisaged for the weekend of 15 August? Reducing the supply of trains is clearly not the answer to the problem. Is this an admission of weakness? Denying one-day tourists is also not an adequate answer. In my capacity as mayor, I expect a response based on the strengthening of the police force in specific areas, in order to protect the police and empower them for their actions, to arrest those responsible for the violence and to bring about the rule of law. The mayors are responsible for enforcing the ministerial decree with the help of their police, who must urgently receive concrete support. The local police are waiting for strong responses and actions to stop the hemorrhage of the growing sense of impunity. The violence radiates and the police force melts like snow in the sun. Balance has become inversely proportional.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, working people are entitled to a well-deserved holiday. That's obvious. It's been really hard months in our barn. During such a heat wave, people deserve to be able to blow out and cool down on the coast. That is why I want to make it clear that I condemn the troublemakers in Blankenberge clearly and clearly. These are frustrating times for everyone. There is absolutely no justification for such behaviour in the presence of families with children. Ruining the hard-earned holiday with such behavior is absolutely inconvenient. On behalf of my group, I would like to make it clear that such behaviour is unacceptable. I am not going to defend the young people who have committed these crimes. But we really do not think it is possible for some 40 stand-offs to deny thousands of people access to a number of coastal communities. The police and the municipalities must act against the perpetrators of violence, but can anyone here in the room explain to me why thousands of people are being punished for the misconduct of a small group? That's just not explainable. Ordinary working people who come to escape the heat for a day are now being punished for something they have nothing to do with. We hear it right: forty troublemakers. The police must be able to act against this without suddenly having to build a wall around the city, even if it is with federal help. I'm making the connection to our little soccer country. When there are forty rioters in a confrontation between two football teams, is there not going to be a abolition of all Belgian football? This is just a failing policy. Constitutional specialist Elke Cloots also criticized her. Banning innocent tourists from entering the territory is contrary to the principle of equality in the Belgian constitution. But individuals such as Count Lippens and other coastal mayors have no secret that they should know nothing of what they call disrespectful fridgebox tourists. He now resorts to the problems in the other municipalities as an excuse to exclude people he does not find well enough from his congregation. We at PVDA say clearly: everyone is entitled to the coast. Let people look up the coolness and stop the day tourists from the coastal communities. We need a national action plan. We heard that today. People were asked to keep it at a so-called staycation this year. A lot of people didn't like going abroad either, and rightly so. So we knew that many people would spend the summer in their own country, often in small apartments and with temperatures getting warmer every summer. It is then necessary to consider at national level whether there are sufficient recreational and cooling possibilities. In recent years, recreational areas have been closed very often. There are big domains like Océade. To be clear, Océade closed two years ago to make way for a mall and apartments. In Océade, however, many young people from Brussels started to cool down. The Lommel Sahara was temporarily closed last week, because the mayor was afraid of what was coming. Yesterday there was a skirmish at De Plas in Kelchterhoef between two people, you hear well two people, two families, and that was enough to close the whole of De Plas to the public. This raises many questions for us. Because of the combination of the heat wave with the corona measures, we could have expected that the head walk was going to be on the coast. Couldn't this have been foreseen? Let's go back to April. In April we already asked you a question in this committee, Minister for the Interior, about cooperation with the coastal mayors to draw up a common action plan for all municipalities. How do we avoid collusion and accumulation? How is the enforcement of the measures going? How do we avoid arbitrariness and how do we guarantee that everyone has the right to come to the coast? Those are the questions we asked at the time. You said, however, that you left the situation to the coastal mayors and were not involved in the consultations. Apparently that didn't work out well. At first they failed to control the crowd. Then everyone refused access. This policy has failed. Ebb and flood are not new phenomena. This could have been perfectly anticipated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u13	There is one last speaker, Mr Vandenput. However, he informs me that he is experiencing technical difficulties and that he is going to try to join in the second round.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u14	Mr President, I immediately addressed the question of the Committee on the Interior to hold a meeting today. Although there was earlier a proposal from the committee to do so on Wednesday or Thursday, I proposed today. The problem of violence, and in particular the violence against the police as we observed last weekend on the coast, reflects a social trend which I fight with all possible means. Our policemen deserve our daily respect. Those who stand day and night for our safety and their justified sighs, as expressed by their respective organizations, are also mine. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like once again to stress that there are no pretexts or explanations for violence against police officers, firefighters and rescue services in general. I therefore strongly condemn all these acts of violence. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress once again that no pretext or reason justifies violence against police officers, firefighters and aid workers in general. I condemn and fight those acts of violence where I can and must. On Saturday around 5.30 p.m., Blankenberge police were informed that people were being harassed on the beach. During the local police identity check, a number of people were found in a state of apparent public drunkenness. This translated into verbal and physical aggression by some 50 men and women. The local police of the Blankenberge/Zuienkerke zone received massive assistance from neighbouring police areas and the federal police. In total, the federal police have sent over 80 additional police officers to the police area, including the federal reserve, shipping police and road police. All in all, 135 police officers were deployed in the incident. Three men were arraigned before the investigating judge for rebellion and deliberate blows and injuries. In the meantime, the investigating judge has extended their arrest. They'll be in the council room soon. Twenty troublemakers were apprehended administratively for disorderly conduct. They almost all came from Brussels and were already known to the police and the courts. This immediately proves that these services actually follow up. The District Court of West Flanders is conducting an investigation with a view to additional identifications and possible additional judicial arrests. Mr President, allow me to say at the start of this debate that I am not impressed by the knowledge of some members of this committee about the police force that has been made available. I note, among many colleagues in this committee, a lack of knowledge of the police function and the arrangements made available this summer. With regard to the deployment of the federal police, it provides, as every year, for structural support in the event of an influx of troops to the coast. This summer, 40 federal police inspectors are permanently seconded to the coast police, including 9 in the West Coast police zone, 2 in the Middelkerke police zone, 5 in the Ostend police zone, 10 in the Bredene-Le Coq police zone, 5 in the Blankenberge police zone, 1 in the Bruges police zone, 2 in the Bruges maritime police and 6 in the Damme-Knokke police zone. As far as the federal police are concerned, no one has mentioned this. As every year, the federal police provide structural assistance for the summer crowds on our coast. It was higher than ever this year, and the mayors will confirm all of that. This summer, on my proposal, 40 federal police inspectors were seconded to the coastal police: 9 to the West Coast police zone, 2 to the Middelkerke police zone, 5 to the Ostend police zone, 10 to the Bredene-De Haan police zone, 5 to the Blankenberge police zone, 1 to the Bruges police zone, 2 to the Bruges shipping police and 6 to the Damme-Knokke police zone. This figure has thus almost tripled compared to previous years. In particular, it supports the task of monitoring the measures taken in the context of the fight against VOCID-19. In addition, the federal police provide, on my proposal, on a daily basis, a deconcentrated reserve of intervention consisting of a platoon of about 40 people. This deconcentrated reserve is effectively deployed on a daily basis and, for the benefit of the various police forces, carries out missions that can be interrupted immediately. It can be called back in the event of an incident or unexpected crowding. It was deployed last Saturday. In addition to this permanent detachment of personnel, this year the federal police also provide seven police patrols on horseback a day, two of which are in each of the seven coast police areas. This is therefore a threefold increase compared to previous years. This was not the case between 2014 and 2018. This tripling will support the monitoring of the COVID-19 measures. This was done on my proposal, in consultation with the coastal mayors. A devolved intervention reserve of 1 peloton, about 40 people, is made available daily. This devolved reserve is effectively deployed every day with immediately degradable orders for the benefit of the different police forces. It can be called for reinforcement in case of incidents or unexpected people's seats open and was actually deployed last Saturday. In addition to this permanent posting of personnel, this year the federal police also provide 7 police patrols on horseback with 2 in each of the 7 police zones of the coast. In the event of an incident, the Federal Reserve for Permanent Intervention (FERES) and, if necessary, the other deconcentrated reserves provided for by the federal police but distributed elsewhere in the territory may always be used. The FERES reserve was sent to the coast. The reserve was eventually not deployed, but was prepared in Tronchiennes, near Ghent, for further incidents. Ultimately, its deployment did not prove necessary, but we were prepared for any eventuality. With regard to the Damme-Knokke police area, she did not seek urgent support. On Sunday, 9 August, the Federal Police provided coastal assistance of the order of seven sections (de-concentrated reserves and FERES reserves). Both in the morning and in the afternoon, a section was placed in support of the Damme-Knokke police zone and the Bruges Railway Police. In the afternoon, a section was planned each time within the police zone of Ostend and the police zone of Blankenberge. A final section was ready to leave immediately to carry out specific missions. The additional FERES reserves already planned, as well as the four sections of another deconcentrated reserve, received a warning order for possible deployment in the event of incidents in West Flanders. First conclusion and confirmation by all the mayors concerned and the governor thanks to the careful preparation of the police presence: no mention was made at any time or in any way of a shortage of personnel which could be deployed. My first conclusion, confirmed by all the mayors and the governor involved, is therefore that the thorough preparation ensured the presence of the police, and there has been no mention at any time of shortages of employable effectives. Ladies and gentlemen, mayors are responsible for managing the public space on their territory. I am also mayor myself, so I am aware of the opportunities and opportunities that this offers. Under the laws and regulations of the COVID19 pandemic, local authorities requested and received greater autonomy from the National Security Council on 23 July 2020. This has ensured that every coastal mayor, no one can withdraw from it, has been able to provide customised services for his or her own city or municipality in terms of beach management and this also at their explicit request. This also applies to the development of an online registration system. The situation in Blankenberge is very specific, given the rather narrow and short coastal strip. Due to the fact that half of the beach was spent in private management, there is hardly any space available in high tide for beachgoers who do not rent a seat or do not want or can go to a beach bar. This requires a very specific approach to crowd control, the so-called crowd control that takes into account high and low water and requires local authorities to ensure that there are not too many beachgoers present for the available beach area in high water. Everyone will agree on that. If necessary, access to the beach must be proactively regulated, or partially evacuated in good time when the sea comes into existence. This did not happen, so that in high tide the troublemakers got among the regular bathers so that it was impossible to intervene punctually without having to go to a complete evacuation of the beach. According to my information, the first signs of potential problems with young people were already coming in around 2:00 p.m. In the end, at 5.30 p.m., action was taken at the request of the local authorities. So precious time was lost. However, the conduct of this rogue gang must be severely condemned by the court. I repeat that the behaviour of this gang of ragers must be severely punished! Let me be clear: I am fully committed to the local authorities and all the citizens of our country and I am a defender of all their rights and duties. I am also a defender of those who wish to move freely to the coast. That's a right, too. For many of us, day tourists are not day terrorists. I use all the means to ensure public order, but this must also be done on the basis of people who are not always familiar with our standards and values. Therefore, I will continue to act to ensure public order, to maintain them and to restore them. The fact that more than 80 people have been added to one incident that is famous Saturday afternoon in Blankenberge is the best proof of this. That is why I want to focus once again, for the whole population: these guys are not in charge here and they will never be. However, I would like to make it clear that the ice must be seized. During this sitting I tried to explain clearly what steps have been taken in the past in relation to the police capacity available. I am convinced that these gangs must be dealt with without any restraint and intransigence. That is why I shall make proposals which go beyond what the questioners are proposing. I am in favour of a ban on places and will take initiatives to this end. Those place bans should be imposed on a judicial or administrative basis, by analogy with what is possible in the football law. I will take measures to ban places that can be extended across the whole coastline and, if necessary, to the recreational areas throughout our country. I will also work to ensure that, during certain periods of the year, for example in the event of a heat wave, a notification is made on weekends for those who are familiar with criminal offences. They will have to report to their place of residence so that a check can be carried out. Then I'll come to the other questions. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at no time has it been necessary to trigger a provincial phase in West Flanders. The disturbances were managed at the communal level, certainly with massive reinforcement of the neighbouring police areas and the federal police. A total of 135 police officers were mobilized. Both the deconcentrated reserves and the federal reserves were deployed in addition to the maritime police and a road police team. We cannot always prevent such violence, but we will never tolerate it. As I mentioned earlier, I immediately made more than 80% of the federal police available to local authorities. It may have been possible to intervene earlier as part of a good collaboration between the administration, the stewards and the police without having to wait for the first incidents. Individuals who subsequently played the party disorder could also have been intercepted and checked for non-compliance with the assembly ban and possible alcohol abuse. Ices filled with spirit drinks could have been seized upon arrival, at the station, downtown or at the entrance to the beach, but this was not the case. Not all the means made available have therefore been used. That is my second conclusion. The closure of the stations on Sunday, 9 August, as envisaged at some point by some mayors, would have been out of proportion and would have unfairly penalized those who went to the coast for a day while respecting the rules we know. The amokmakers.. I must repeat that.... could be intercepted. It was also possible to check for co-training and for potential drinking abuse upon arrival and movement to the beaches or in the streets. That didn't happen. That is a second important conclusion. The possible closure of the stations, as I said in French, as at some point considered by some mayors, would have been out of proportion and would have punished the ordinary day tourist. Finally, the return of the coast to the interior went smoothly on Sunday, thanks to the common efforts of the police and road manager, being the Roads and Traffic Agency. With regard to the questions referred to SNCB, I have to tell you that Mr Bellot has the authority to do so and that he has held a meeting at 3 p.m. this afternoon, I believe in Bruges, with the governor and the coastal mayors. Then there are a number of questions. I'm going to answer them in order of questioning. Mr Kitir, you asked questions about etnic profiling. First, however, I would like to thank you for mentioning something very specific, namely that the police have done their job well. I would like to thank you for this consideration during this period of de-escalation. Once again, the contacts with the mayors of all coastal communities have been very intensive over the length of months. You can ask each of those coastal mayors, and they will confirm that. They have really insisted on customisation, not clothing for the whole territory. They wanted customization, and we gave them that customization. With regard to the coordination to which you referred, West Flanders has coordinated through the governor where necessary. Of this, the mouth mask duty on the dikes is a consequence. The extra federal police capacity has also helped. There has been no ethnic profiling, work has been done on the basis of a number of specific objective elements. The first element was a training of ten people or more. This applies to everyone, regardless of their origin, Belgian or not. We have the right to act policely, and I will never deviate from that, whatever the origin of people. Potential alcohol abuse is also a reason to act immediately. The seizure of cooler boxes containing alcoholic beverages, which can be returned to the owners on return, is a legitimate act. This also applies to drug use interventions. Mr Briers, you mentioned the external capacity of the federal police. I believe that I have demonstrated in abundance how many members that additional capacity has been set up on different echelons of the police force and that this was not improvisation at all. This was indeed well prepared. So I can only answer yes to your question. I am against closing the stations because moving a problem is not a solution. Moving the problem to other and perhaps smaller coastal stations does not solve the problem. Moving the problem to the stations in the hinterland doesn't do that either. There is also another argument, because one cannot punish everyone for the behaviour of some criminals. Mr Thiébaut asked me if any contacts had been made by or with the mayors. Already long before the Blankenberge incidents, I was in constant contact with the mayors. I even played a role as a operator of the power plant, which worked at full speed throughout the weekend. As regards the crowded trains or the offer of additional trains to the coast, it is up to my colleague Bellot to decide, in consultation with SNCB. As you said, there is a management contract for SNCB, which has been debated in Parliament and approved by the government. SNCB, as such, plays an essential role. I would like to point out that it is impossible to enforce the rules of social distancing on trains, even when they are only filled at 50%. That is why we imposed the wearing of the mask on the trains. Mrs Soors, I have read your freestand in a newspaper this morning. I see that you are repeating a great many of the arguments here. I have great respect for your knowledge of the fight against terrorism, but I have to tell you that some details about the construction and management of the crisis situation have escaped your knowledge. In our country, it is very clear that the crisis scenarios are being built up step by step: municipal, provincial and, finally, federal. That does not, of course, rule out permanent contacts, nor does the federal government work proactively. You will not be surprised that the federal government can intervene in the first two phases. In the case of Blankenberge, I have read the press release from the county administration well. One sentence, the last one, I believe, which I quote almost literally, is that the provincial contingency plan was not declared. Mrs. Soors, you're asking for a unit of command from the federal government, as well as some of your colleagues. Well, I am your man. If you think the whole security policy should be controlled by the federal government, you'll find a partner in me. Consider yourself lucky in that respect. Mr Anseeeuw, I have to say that there were few interventions on this subject in the years 2014-2018. Then things were going smoothly, so to speak, when there were a lot of riots in Brussels and elsewhere. However, motions and recommendations were not necessary at the time. Sometimes you hear of a bridge between the N-VA and the Flemish Interest: I have seen them here again today. Mrs Pas, I think I have answered your questions with the measures in force today. I will make sure that they fit within a legal framework. I would like to add that if the measures prove inadequate, or if they cannot be imposed on the courts quickly enough, I am working on an administrative framework. All fines can then be embedded in that administrative framework and collected by all authorities, including the federal authorities. Then there is the question of whether certain measures are constitutional. I will not comment on what has been issued in certain provinces in the country on the basis of provincial regulations. I can tell you that there are currently 28 lawsuits against measures taken by the Home Office. Meanwhile, there are 20 statements. All 20 statements have been won by the Home Office. I am therefore confident that the advice of our legal services has only one objective in mind, namely the reduction of the pandemic and the saving of human lives. For us, the only absolute right remains the right to life in healthy conditions. Dear Mr Taquin, as far as train management is concerned, I have already said and I repeat that this is entirely the responsibility of SNCB and that my colleague, Mr Bellot, is currently working on a proposal. Mr Colebunders, I thought I would never agree with the PTB, but today, surprisingly, I agree with you that the majority of people should not be punished for the misconduct of a criminal gang.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I have not been able to ask my questions, but at least you have answered them. The situation in Blankenberge was outlined, but it was not a single fact. There were also riots in Anderlecht after the demonstration of 7 June and there were riots in several provincial domains. We should start by mentioning man and horse, because it is mostly about young people with an ethnic background from the Brussels environment who are trying to expand their territory, both north and south of Brussels. There are two victims, firstly the police who have done a good job this weekend and since the start of the corona pandemic. For us, these attacks on the police can't happen because they're giving the police a mental dent. Secondly, day tourists were the victims of the necessary measures taken by certain coastal mayors and other local authorities. Those day tourists spend a lot of money in the local economy on the coast and in the provincial domains, and they cannot be the victims of a small minority of amok makers whose identity we know. However, we are not moving fast enough to bring them to justice. I want to come back to that. I think that we should, above all, work on speedy justice. Those ammo makers must be touched in their honor and their portfolio, and swift justice can help in this. The day after they rioted, they should cleanse what they destroyed. They should do that in front of their friends and family. That is a way of pointing these young people right and pointing out their responsibilities. However, we must also hit them in their portfolio. I personally am in favour of taking away some of their rights, such as benefits and children's money, but I have been properly informed and constitutionally that is simply not possible. I think we should think about how we can make them financially responsible for what they are doing in a different way. Quick justice can help here, too. The damage they have done should also be compensated immediately for financially, not through lengthy procedures, insurance etc. That should be possible very quickly and efficiently. We in the Committee on the Interior, together with the Committee on Justice, should consider how we can organise this quickly. For the rest, I understand there's a plan for the whole country. That's a good plan, but it's got to be implemented and there's got to be enough men going there. Finally, I would like to say that this fact in Blankenberge and many other facts throughout the country are once again proof for me that the police certainly cannot be split up, as some parties would like in a subsequent government. The police must be organised globally and nationally in order to regain control of such rural problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u16	Minister, you are right to say that the majority should not be responsible for the misconduct of a minority. The proposals you are announcing on the ban on places and so on are really necessary. You have given an update of the frameworks of the police forces on landing. I do, however, miss the following point. I'm not so much concerned with those numbers. Those policemen are trying to do their job in difficult circumstances. It has nothing to do with a heat wave that we have been in an atmosphere of aggressive behaviour towards policemen for a long time. They must try to do their work in an atmosphere where they are actually the target, in which they are the target of all kinds of small and large attacks. The police union has not for nothing called again this weekend for zero tolerance for violence against police and aid workers. We need to step up our efforts. I hear everyone here condemning the violence against the rescuers and the police. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a proposal from the Flemish Interest is pending in the Committee on Justice and is currently under discussion to abolish community service and to impose stricter penalties in the case of violence against police and emergency services. When I hear all of you here, I think it's a piece of cake to approve it soon, if you do act by word. Those policemen are trained not to intervene harshly. They are in an atmosphere in which they have to do their job, videos are made and the slightest mistake is used against them, rather than condemning the violence against those policemen. Minister, in your approach, I miss the following completely. You spoke a little bit about the narrow coastal strip and the high water, specifically with regard to Blankenberge. We have also heard the ebb-and-flux history, of which there is no problem in the recreational areas, but the same problem also arises there. At the heart of the matter is that there are youth gangs, groups of immigrants, young people from Brussels who are not being addressed. You're right to say they're not boss, but they think they're boss. That's the problem. And they're trying to expand their territory. They make it a sport to break every rule and turn against emergency services and police forces over and over again. It's those youth gangs that need to be dealt with. Your predecessor said he was going to clean up Brussels. He obviously didn't do it. The perpetrators, who are known, must be dealt with. I do not understand, then, Mr Kitir, that in this context there may be a problem with ethnic profiling or with the police doing their job of trying to get the perpetrators who are known out of it. Then it is a matter of common sense to allow the police to do their job efficiently and not to reject it for reasons of political correctness or so-called discrimination. She's not gonna check out old ladies or groups of chiromeis. Let the police do their job. The police union also called on Saturday to name the problem. Young people are always spoken of, while almost always they are about groups of immigrant young people. It is one thing to name things, but if one does not dare to do so, then one will never act on them. Take the example of the corona measures in Antwerp. When in the first phase of the re-flammation of the coronavirus it appears that one-fourth of all infections in Flanders come from Borgerhout, one does not dare to name the communities from which this comes. And so they don't act on it either. Then collective action will be taken. A curfew is set up until the Kempen. They are going to force mouth masks so that an elderly couple in the woods of the Kempen now also have to cycle with a mouth mask, precisely because they do not want to name the problems and therefore do not want to act accordingly. The police union was more than right to point out that it is always called 'young people', while everyone knows what specific, crapular, ethnic youth gangs are involved. They must be dealt with. I will decide, Minister. I am pleased that you have taken up our request that this matter should be dealt with in committee. I'm glad you won't allow me to shut down stations and ban day-trips. We must not take collective measures which also punish people who mean well. That can't be the point at all. But the elephant in the room, the youth gangs in Brussels, must be dealt with differently, from the source. Everything else is symptom control.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u17	Minister, halfway through your speech you launched the new slogan "I am your man." We haven't noticed that in the last few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u18	Why don't you ask your mayor?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u19	I was with him when you called him. Don't get me started, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u20	Why don't you ask your mayor and your partymates?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u21	Mr. Secretary, don't talk to me like that. If you really want this, I'll start. We haven't noticed, the last few days and weeks, and today in your answers we find again nothing. But let me start with something else. You have addressed me personally, and that is your right, but what you insinuate, I will not accept. I told him we should name the cases. I have no problem with you seeing a bridge to another party. You see what you want to see. I also said that we should not generalise. But just by not calling things by name for decades, we're going to generalize. Maybe you should think about that. This applies not only to you, but also to other colleagues. They say calling things by name is okay, but you can't say where they come from. I think it makes sense to tell you where they came from. Mr Mahdi, who in the meantime has disappeared with the northern sun, found it annoying that I said that these gangs are from Brussels. It seems important to me to know where they come from, because then you also know where to deal with the problem. Then the mayor of Brussels can also deliver customization. Minister, you are responsible for crisis management and emergency planning. It is true that mayors throughout the country, and also on the coast, can provide customised services, and so do they. I have explained in detail the example of my home town of Ostend. We do it, and it works. The crowd control on our territory is working. However, the crowd control after our territory is another pair of sleeves. There's nothing we can do about that as a local government. Once again, crisis management and emergency planning are your responsibility. I called for work to be carried out today or to be carried out on the basis of a new, adapted SNCB transport plan for the supply of people to the coast during this summer season. That is a very specific question. Today you say that that is the responsibility of Mr Bellot. Bellot is not here today. We don't have to wait for him either, because waiting for Bellot is a bit like waiting for Godot. However, you are competent here. On Sunday you did not feel too bad to announce that no train stations would be closed. On Sunday you were partly responsible for rail traffic, but on Tuesday, in committee, you open your umbrella. Local authorities can indeed organise themselves well in terms of crowd control on their territory, but of course they cannot manage the crowd coming to their territory, and you are failing to do so as a federal minister responsible for crisis management, assuming that this is being multidisciplinary and that you play a coordinating role. However, you can easily open your umbrella today and I find that very cynical with all the local authorities who work hard every day to organize everything well and then face an influx that is far too large, with far too many people coming to the coast at the same time. We can't do that in corona time. It's that simple, but you're still deaf to East Indian. I find it particularly cynical that you refer to Minister Bellot in your reply. That disappoints me very much. You've been magical with numbers. You have talked for a very long time about the police deployment, about the reserves that have been promised and so on. You also said that there will be additional measures, but they will also have to be maintained. Is it not now clear after this weekend that the water is at least on the lips of the coastal police zones with the capacity that has now been promised? I note that today you do not provide additional people from the federal reserve for the additional measures that you will take and that should also be maintained on the coast, at least in part. My second appeal is therefore to provide for additional federal police officers in order to maintain the additional measures that you yourself have announced, because that is something we, as local government, cannot do anymore. I'm clear about that. Once again, it will probably be in vain at your address, but perhaps Minister Bellot will be listening to me today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u22	Minister, you denounced the knowledge of some Members of Parliament about the use of the police, but when you talk about groups of 40 extra people, they do not work 24 hours a day. Those 40 people actually mean 10 extra people for a full coastal zone. If you have about two times 40 people, in practice that amounts to 10 people. Furthermore, solidarity between the local areas is of course fantastic, but it cannot be guaranteed that something does not happen in several places at once or shortly after each other. I know that the federal police have prepared a very nice distribution for this special summer in corona times, but there may be emergencies all over the country. If one is ready in Drongen, then it is still a short drive before one is on the spot. You also say that this afternoon there will be a meeting of SNCB with the local authorities. I would also like to see one of your services present in view of the police deployment required at the stations of Ghent and Bruges to accompany the switch of coastal visitors. In view of the large number of combi's for the Bruges station this weekend, I believe that you should be represented at that meeting because these train movements also have an important police aspect. You dislike the knowledge of certain colleagues in crisis management. Although an incident needs to be managed locally, you seem to forget that we are in a federal phase, with federal corona measures to be applied everywhere. There is also additional pressure from tourism in our own country. You also forget the role of the governor who has a special emergency and intervention plan for incidents in the North Sea. An incident must be effectively managed locally, but we are now in the federal phase of an emergency. So you can anticipate and make pre-defined agreements with the services for general application in certain tourist sites. A final element is the feasibility of a place ban. I very much welcome your proposal to look at the slopes of the notification to the residence commissioner, because a ban on places is a good and symbolic means but it is difficult to control, especially on the coast. We must then check the identity cards of many people to see whether or not they are allowed to be there. The workload is getting so much too big, and it also bothers too many other people. I am therefore absolutely in favour of the piste you wish to examine, namely notification to the residence commissioner.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u23	Mr President, Minister, it is good to hear that preparations had been made. On the basis of the reports, it seemed as if there was no coordination at all. I am pleased to hear that consultations have been held in advance. I would like to come back to what some of my colleagues said. I'm in favour of naming problems. If these young people are from Brussels, then it can be said that these young people are from Brussels. However, I do have a problem with saying that all crime comes from Brussels. If those young people were of ethnic origin, they should be named, I have no problem with that. I do have a problem with it when people say that it is always immigrants who cause crime. I say yes to problems, but also make sure that solutions are worked out, because in my view, generalisation is not a solution. I am therefore very pleased to hear that there will be no ethnic profiling, that the identity checks by our policemen, once again, have done a good job, focusing on clear structures, such as the prohibition of cooperation and the prohibition of drinking. It must focus on criminal behaviour and ensure the safety of citizens. Those are not directives that target people of a particular origin. That's why it's important. The safety of everyone must be guaranteed and every criminal must be arrested. Minister, I am also pleased that the proposals that you yourself put forward, such as a ban on places, may be extended to the coast and that the obligation to report is directed at people who have already committed criminal behaviour and not at people of a particular origin. I am also pleased to hear that we are not going to close the stations. After all, I am of the opinion that one of the reasons is the following. Because of the corona measures, a lot of activities have been cancelled. People have nothing more to do and people then move and go elsewhere to find a situation to keep busy. Banning activities, closing stations, denying people access is not in itself a solution, because people are moving and we certainly do not have the capacity to follow everyone 24 hours a day. Moving the problem is not, in my view, a solution either. Finally, Minister, there is a great deal of confidence in many people. That's not because our policemen wouldn't have done the right thing. It is not gone because certain preparations would not be made. You said they're working behind the scenes. Trust is gone because of the situation. We are in a difficult situation. People have fear. People feel bullied instead of supported. The measures are actually there for our own security and those of our citizens. This makes the work of our police officers even more difficult. There is nothing to prevent such cases from happening over the coming weekends, in other circumstances. I think we should all be aware of it. That is why it is also important that there is clear communication and that we do not start shooting in all directions. I have another message for the Prime Minister. We missed her in this story. The country's on fire. She hasn't made a single statement. Nor did she call on the citizens to calm down. She didn't convict the riots either. I wonder where our Prime Minister is, who still has the confidence until the end of September and has to manage this crisis. Now we see that she's completely absent. I don't understand. I hope you'll pass the message on to her. It can also help to reassure citizens and take the necessary measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u24	Minister, thank you for your detailed explanations. However, I ask myself the same question as other colleagues: how do you envisage applying the controls you mentioned? Of course, there is a check-in with the local police station before leaving for the Côte, but on arrival at the Côte, how is this going to happen? Will there be any checks at the exit from the station? Let's take the stadium ban, for example. It's easy: there are entrances. We always go in through the same places and they're limited. It's easy to see who's coming in and getting out of it. But the Belgian Coast is a little bigger than a football stadium! How do you intend to apply this type of measure in practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for the number of suggestions you have made. Above all, I remember that there are three times more federal policemen on the coast than in the past and that the reserve was ready. She was standing by in Drongen, so not that far. There was no shortage of policemen anywhere. That was also confirmed by the governor and the coastal mayors. The police have done their job and we are all grateful to her. The beach bars were only mentioned for a moment, but in the newspaper they also come back to it. Should we not consider whether some beach bars are too large and not too close to the high tide? Currently there is an unbridled number of beach bars in some municipalities. I also remember that there were problems at 2:00 p.m. You also spoke of a reporting obligation. I hear everybody here thinks that's a good idea. Relschoppers should report to their own congregation, but how are you going to organize that? Would you do that specifically on the weekends? You also talked about stopping ammo makers in the stations, but wouldn't that be better done in the stations of departure, if you could? You did not comment on my suggestion regarding the spread of day tourists across the different beaches by taking them from the train stations with De Lijn to the other coastal municipalities, but I think that this is a matter of safety. Perhaps you could discuss this with your Flemish colleagues? It seems so obvious to me that this is happening for all major events and that it should be possible on the coast.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u26	Minister, thank you for your detailed answers. You strongly condemned the attacks by some thugs on our police officers. When one attacks a policeman, one attacks the state, our own security and our values, and that is unacceptable. I felt less a direct condemnation of the statements made by a Blankenberge policeman (and of which I have told you) with regard to ethnic profiling. I have, at best, guessed that you condemn any hindrance to individual freedom, which, in my view, goes without saying. Could you, however, be clearer about this? Did I understand that you did not accept the remarks made by the officer in question and that you would not accept any form of ethnic profiling in the coming months or weeks, whether in Blankenberge or elsewhere? The weekend of August 15 is near and looks warm. I hope it will only be hot in terms of sunshine, at the coast and elsewhere. I also hope that my son and other young people will be able to go to the sea without fear of being "in the wrong place" when they get off the train.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for your reassuring reply. It's reassuring to hear that you've provided reinforcements, not just any one. You're talking about a triple. That is substantial, and I think it is necessary. I think it is necessary to provide this reinforcement at least this year. It is good that the police have done their job and that you, as Minister of the Interior, make sure that the police can do their job. I have also understood from your reply that you are also the minister of day travelers. You also want to ensure, despite the offer of certain local mayors, that day-trips who want to go to the Belgian coast to enjoy the sea and beach with family can continue to do so. That is why I would also like to warn colleagues about a particular offer. I hear Mr Kitir talking about a country on fire. I can almost understand that climatetologically, but not on the basis of 20 amokmakers with a criminal record, who need to be dealt with effectively. Speaking of a land on fire, I wouldn't do that. I would also like to reassure colleagues from the N-VA, who apparently feared that I would be absent or left. If you think I find it a problem to talk about Brussels, I invite you to attend the Committee on the Interior every week from now on. Then you will find that I often ask questions of all colleagues about youth gangs in Brussels, where I often drop the name Brussels. So, should you worry, I will continue to do so, but I will continue to do so when the name Antwerp, Ostend or any other city will fall. So let us name the problems where we should name them, without making them into political games. It doesn't help anyone, especially the day tourists who want to enjoy our Belgian coast and a holiday in corona times.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As far as the deployment of police capacity is concerned, I appreciate that you have been forward-looking and the capacity has increased compared to the past. That is the minimal support that people needed locally and on the ground. As far as prevention is concerned, I hope that you will show the same foresight in the future. Unfortunately, I have not heard you say much about this. For example, you did not comment on Mr Briers' suggestions to consider measures such as those taken for mass events and the like. Nor have I heard you talk about the approach in other places in our country facing similar challenges. However, a global approach for the whole country is exactly what we need, I am sure. You are right to refer to the bottom-up of the crisis approach, from local to federal, with all intermediate levels. You refer to your colleague, Mr Bellot, in relation to SNCB's policy and you are formally right. When I talk about leadership, I expect more leadership from you. That is an outstretched hand because if you endorse the call for unity of command that we have often heard here today, then I ask you to work with it and weigh it up. After all, you are Minister of the Interior and you are an important voice in your party, the country and the government. More unity and more coordination can only strengthen our security and justice system. It's the only way we can judge who needs to be tried. This is the only way to guarantee everyone's security and freedom. That is, after all, what is fundamental in this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u29	Mr President, Minister, you have answered only questions about trains and the ban on overnight tourists. That's how you refer Minister Bellot. I would remind you that, according to the press, you announced a concertation meeting on Monday on the abolition of the additional trains to the coast and on the reduction of the capacity of the regular trains. Concertation leads to the presence of several people around the table. I also read in the press, which Minister Bellot announced yesterday, that there was no reduction in SNCB's supply. So I feel a little bit that the SNCB was faced with the fait accompli. As I have already said, this is not a solution. I fully understand the difficulty of the mayors of the communes of the Côte who have to face this kind of fact. I would also like to point out that the events which have taken place are serious and must be the subject of a prompt response from the judiciary, which is currently being done. As far as staffing is concerned, I always ask myself the same question. As a mayor, I know the difficulties facing local police areas. You announced that 80 per cent of the federal police were available to the local police. I wonder about the continuity of the usual missions of the federal police. Are they interrupted? Would it not be better to strengthen the local police, as we have long been asking? Indeed, we act clearly in communicating vases. Mr Minister, I would finally like to have concrete answers to this problem. On the other hand, I mean that tourists should register in their local area. Once again, we are increasing the workload of the local police, which I do not think is a solution. More structural solutions should be considered in the long term so that each mayor can rely on his local police force, which, in normal times, is already facing enormous difficulties that are only growing because of the crisis of the VOCID-19 that we are experiencing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u30	Mr President, Minister, I would like to respond to your reply to my speech. I almost fell off my chair when you said that we agreed for the first time and that you were seriously shocked by that. I can tell you, so can I. The rest of the room got a little nervous. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reassure you that we do not agree that we are involved in the government negotiations. We must remember, however, that we both had prejudices, Minister. If we have that on a micro-level and we can still be amazed by it, then you must ask yourself what this could do in macro-level terms. But this aside. I am very pleased with what you said about the federal resources you provided. However, it is once again unacceptable that the local authorities and the police failed to catch a few dozen rioters without having to shut down the entire municipality. I have heard all the political parties today, but to date I am still amazed by that. Now all Belgian day tourists were punished for an incident they had nothing to do with. Let me make it clear once again: stop the rioters, but not the entire population. I repeat what I just said. If the government asks us to do a staycation, there must be sufficient recreational areas available. There must also be a national plan that gives our population coronaproof access to recreation and cooling during the increasingly frequent heat waves. There should have been a coastal plan that controlled the crowd. As early as April, we asked you to play a role in this. I told you that earlier. Unfortunately, that has not happened or is not enough. There are many unemployed people in the cultural sector, as we all know, who have experience with large masses. Speak to that knowledge! By the way, you also spoke about the narrow coastal strip, through privatisation. That's another thing we have to stop talking about. More and more privatizing brings about such things. I am not going to put all coastal communities on the same footing, but if there is no longer a piece of beach at flood where the ordinary man, who is already struggling and does not have the means to go on vacation extensively, can go, and if the coast is only there for people who have money, we are seriously asking ourselves. The right to recreation and cooling is thus denied to us. That is something we have to think twice about. You say that the criminals must be punished. It is clear that we are in complete agreement with this, but punish them and not the entire Belgian population, who is entitled to a day on the coast. Like some of my fellow Members, I have already asked that a whole population should not be treated in the same way. A family of Moroccan or Turkish origin shook the head just as much when it saw the statues. I can't count the e-mails and messages from people who said they'd be the black sheep again. They are also denied access to the coast. So give all Belgians the right to the coast and stop barring day tourists. Minister, we ask you to ask the local authorities to explicitly reopen access to their municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-11-55-commissie-ic250x.u31	We are done with the second round, ladies and gentlemen. I do not think that the Minister wishes to add anything more and that there are not many outstanding questions anymore at the moment. I think it was a very sensible committee meeting with some novelty. I thank you all for coming.
