ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic154x.u1	Colleagues, I propose that we use the method we used in the previous committee meeting. The maximum speaking time for each group is 10 minutes. The political groups shall take the floor in the order in which the questions are tabled. Each political group has a maximum of ten minutes. The speakers in each group will follow each other in the order in which the questions are tabled. The secretariat would draw my attention to the fact that it is also possible to refer to the written preparation of the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic154x.u2	Mr President, since it is already 10:30 a.m. and I assume that the Minister will reply in detail, perhaps we can agree that we all refer to the written preparation of our questions. We can save a lot of time with that. It is better that we listen to the Minister and have time to replicate. However, the questions are automatically included in the report. I suggest we make things a little smoother.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic154x.u3	I actually agree with that. It is important that we can hear the Minister's answer in extenso. Then there's room for a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic154x.u4	Mr President, at the last committee meeting, Minister De Crem said that he had given a global answer and that we could contact the committee secretariat for further questions on details and figures. In his view, these questions would be answered as a matter of urgency. In the end, we are the only group that has asked questions, but we have still not received an answer from the Minister. The minister's cabinet said they had not even received any questions, while they had been sent according to the commission service. In the meeting it seemed that the questions would be answered outside the normal written procedure, but in emails afterwards with the cabinet and the secretariat there was a discussion on this. I would like to clarify this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic154x.u5	I take note of your comment, but it is separate from Mrs Kitir's question to refer to the written preparation of the oral questions. In this way, we do not waste time reading the questions and we have more time to hear the Minister and then replicate them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic154x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the space you give me to answer your questions in detail. The answers to your questions cover more than sixty written pages. I will try to answer all the questions and afterwards we can continue and conclude the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic154x.u7	Mr President, as always, I would like to begin by sharing the grief of the families and friends of the victims who died as a result of the VOCID-19. I also want to encourage patients who are currently in our hospitals and who often have to fight to survive. At the same time, I am also proud of the medical and nursing staff as well as those who are active in the critical and support sectors. They fight and work hard to limit the consequences of the crisis and its impact on society. I certainly would like to thank our security corps. Tens of thousands of police officers – men and women –, firefighters, members of the Civil Protection, relief services and the army are making enormous efforts every day and deserve our sincere gratitude. Finally, I thank all citizens who show solidarity and who take responsibility under difficult circumstances. The challenge is great, but perseverance remains the key word. As always, I will give you an overall answer to the questions that have been put. That answer will take time. I would like to stress once again that there are 43 COOVID-related questions with sub-questions and many of them have been tabled at the last minute. You will receive the most complete answer possible. If there are specific detailed questions or if special figures are requested, please provide them in writing to the secretariat. We can do that right now. That makes it possible to answer them in the shortest possible time. The police and emergency services, on whose knowledge and expertise I have to call on to provide all the information, must continue to focus on their core activities in the field as a matter of priority today. Mr Donné and Mr Kitir, I have already replied to your questions about the GPI 94 and the GPI Task Force during the previous topical debate, but I will re-explain those initiatives. The Task Force GPI COVID-19 was initially an internal initiative of the federal police at the beginning of March and built on the GPI Coordination Committee, which was already established in 2015. After March 13th, the need to extend it to the integrated police made itself felt certain. For example, the members of the Federal Police Executive Committee and the members of the Local Police Permanent Commission Office, accompanied by their direct staff and certain experts, are in contact daily via videoconferencing. The following three aspects are discussed over and over again: operational issues, PLIF issues (staff, logistics, ICT and finance) and communication. The working method is summarised in a note dated 17 March. It is an integrated and pragmatic work agreement, which is a solution for rapid action in this crisis situation. You can see it as some kind of real-time management between the main controllers of the integrated police. I am pleased that this agreement was reached spontaneously and that cooperation is being carried out. The Integrated Police Coordination Committee (CC GPI) has been extended and meets each month. The Task Force GPI was subsequently integrated into the federal phase of crisis management and maintains close contacts with the Federal Coordination Committee (COFECO). The following list of topics discussed shows that the task force is necessary and offers absolute added value. For example, he is responsible for the uniform operational guidelines relating to the application of the COVID-19 measures in accordance with the Ministerial Decision of 23 March and following the directives on the reception and police victim treatment functions, the guidelines on personnel matters and the organisation of work and the directives on protective equipment or cleaning and disinfection of premises, materials, uniforms and clothing. The operation is without prejudice to the principle of law that the police authorities act under the authority of the respective police authorities and, in that sense, there is genuine feedback from the task force. Some colleagues reiterated a question about the ministerial decisions on measures to combat the COVID-19 crisis and the explanatory FAQ. I also discussed this issue in the previous topical and urgent debate. The ministerial decision must always be taken in a very short time following the decision of the National Security Council on the basis of CELEVAL's opinions and must be replaced or amended before the measures in force at that time expire. Moreover, following the decision of the National Security Council, there are still several consultations to be held involving an extensive procedure. For example, after the adoption of the measures by the National Security Council last Wednesday evening, the decisions had to be translated into an adaptation of the ministerial decision. That happened the same night and night through the legal cell of the Crisis Center in collaboration with my cabinet chief and my associates. Last Thursday, the amended text was submitted for consultation with the Economic Group of Ten, which was also mainly driven by the VBO and discussed an adaptation of the Annex to the Ministerial Decision on the essential sectors and the additional joint committees. In the end, these adjustments were discussed by the nuclear cabinet and then approved. Those adjustments were also made again by the legal cell of the Crisis Centre, supported by my cabinet, in the evening and night of Thursday on Friday. On Friday the consultation took place with the Communities and the Regions, after which a final adjustment was made. The ministerial decision and the annex were finally validated at an electronic ministerial council on Friday in the late afternoon, after which it was published in a second special edition of the Belgian Official Journal just before 7 p.m. In view of the time needed to incorporate the new measures into a bilingual and legally correct text, it was not possible to consult the Council of State's Legislative Department in recent ministerial decisions. The FAQ document aims to inform the public about the measures taken and their impact on their health and daily life. In this way, constructive cooperation can be achieved with the population, the majority of which are, moreover, very willing to comply with these measures. The FAQ document is not intended to constitute an additional means of imposing sanctions. The minority who nevertheless ignores the measures will only be sanctioned on a legal basis, in particular on the basis of the ministerial decision in force at the time. Mr Van Langenhove, you once again asked the question about the situation in the asylum centres, which, of course, is primarily a matter for the Minister responsible for Asylum and Migration. I can now inform you that the discussions with the services of Minister De Block, which I spoke to you about at the last committee meeting, are still ongoing and are at a final stage. I come now to Mr Vandenput's questions. I have just answered your questions about the GPI 94 and the legal value of the FAQ in the context of Mr Donné's questions. However, I would like to clarify a few points. I repeat: Let it be clear: the police will therefore only draw up a pv based on the ministerial decision and not on the FAQ, which is the question and answer bulletin, of the National Crisis Centre. It is the National Security Council (NVR) that decides on the measures on the basis of the opinions of the Evaluation Cell (CELEVAL). Afterwards, these policy decisions will be implemented by several inter-ministerial, inter-departmental and interregional working groups. The decision whether a particular measure should be taken in the ministerial decision or in the FAQ document is certainly not taken by the Minister for Security and Home Affairs alone. In addition, the relevant ministerial decision is always discussed in the Council of Ministers. The Ministerial Decision thus resumes the measures decided by the NVR on the basis of the opinions drawn up by CELEVAL and now by the Group of Experts in charge of the Exit Strategy (GEES). If, after evaluation, the NVR were to decide that the measures could be relaxed, the Ministerial Decision would have to be amended in the same way before the measures in force at that time expire. In support of the policeman and the policewoman on the ground, the Task Force GPI COVID-19 translates the current ministerial decision, the possible refinements of its provisions from the FAQ and the circular 6/2020 of the College of Attorneys General into operational guidelines. A rigorous and unsophisticated application of the operational directives means that they are applied meticulously and everywhere. For example, we guarantee an equivalent service throughout the territory. Those operational guidelines are similar to the operating orders and therefore not intended for the public. In addition, operational directives are constantly updated and/or supplemented on the basis of the government's regulatory activities. In addition to the operational guidelines, the Integrated Police Task Force also issues guidelines on human resources and logistics. Since these are signed by both the Federal Police Commissioner-General and the Chairman of the Permanent Commission for Local Police, an application across all police forces has also been requested. The representatives of the trade unions shall also be kept informed. As far as the riots in Anderlecht are concerned, we have already discussed this in plenary last Thursday. There is now a judicial investigation of the court following the death of a scooter driver on Friday 10 April. The following day, what was initially a moment of mourning and remembrance in outright riots in Anderlecht was degenerated by young people who turned against the police and law enforcement. I have already said that the riots and the violence against the police were totally inadmissible. I strongly condemned them. You have also asked questions about this, Mr President. The fatal accident was used by the rioters as a pretext to ambush and destroy. No one can, and should, understand the attitude of those young people, who are far from being able to reconcile our social standards and values. Once again, I would like to express my gratitude to the Mayor of Anderlecht, as well as to the police officers involved in the Brussels-South zone, with their reinforcement, and to the federal police for their very professional and decisive action. 146 persons were held by the administration. Several minutes were written out for disorderly conduct. All received a pv under the COVID-19 measures for non-compliance with the co-training ban, including detention of minors. On 12 April, 58 persons were still held by the administration. However, in accordance with Article 31 of the Police Office Act, deprivation of liberty in the event of administrative arrest may never exceed the time required by the circumstances which justify it and may under no circumstances exceed 12 hours, but that does not relieve anyone of persecution or punishment. The internal task force that exists to analyse the available images in order to identify the perpetrators and identify the criminal offences has therefore done its full job. So far, several minutes have been drawn up, including at least one report of arrest for violence. In the meantime, several of the perpetrators were identified and also apprehended. The full cooperation of the Brussels parquet is guaranteed and a reference magi street has been designated. I have proposed the notion zero tolerance and it is applied. We are therefore opting for a strong presence of the police on the ground, with immediate arrests or arrests to avoid possible new riots or immediately smother them in the bud. The general reserve of the federal police has also been operationally ready for this since last week. Questions were asked about what is meant by mass events. The National Security Council has decided on this on the basis of opinions from the CELEVAL and the GEES and, as you may have heard, that decision has been communicated. The decision of the National Security Council was taken on 15 April to first give a ruling to the organisers of the major summer festivals. I would like to stress once again that this decision-making process has been achieved with mayors throughout the territory helping to organise festivals on their territory in the broadest sense of the word and also guaranteeing the safety rules, and with the organizers of all the festivals that fall under the heading of mass events. Finally, Mr Vandenput, you asked a question about the workload of the police and the crime figures. In order to ensure continuity of service, the federal police have identified its most critical processes according to the methodology of the so-called business continuity planning or BCP. These processes are monitored, monitored and adjusted as necessary on a daily basis. As far as administrative police are concerned, operational personnel are in the first line the greatest risk of infection. Less priority activities have therefore been temporarily put on hold. The staffing capacity thus released is partly kept in reserve in order to ensure longer-term continuity and has already been partly deployed to: provide essential and priority reinforcements. I would like to stress here, for example, the specific corona patrols and border controls in particular. As far as the judicial police are concerned, the regular operation has to some extent been consolidated, with the use of telethuiswork wherever possible. The priority here is to deal with the files affecting the physical integrity of the persons, with records of detained persons and, in particular, with investigations into organised crime linked to the COVID-19 virus. The police services also note that this crisis has generated an increased workload at management level through the intensive consultation with the authorities and partners and the management and communication with the staff, and at the level of resource management, in particular for logistics and IT personnel. Based on the information in the general database as a source of police crime statistics, it is now too early and premature to draw conclusions on the impact of this corona crisis on registered crime. The numbers are here. It's numbers from day to day. They may allow us to see certain trends by the end of this week or else next week. I make it an honorary task to inform the members of the committee as soon as possible. Our police services must, of course, continue to work alongside monitoring the corona-related measures. Evidence of this was provided, for example, in Ghent, where the police have picked up remarkably more drug dealers. Since the start of the lockdown, the police have been able to catch 22 drug dealers there. The police are therefore more busy maintaining the corona measures, but in all other areas it needs to intervene just less. For example, they signal fewer road accidents, fewer speeding offences and also fewer people under the influence of the driver. Mr Arens, I understand that the impact of containment measures taken to minimize the spread of coronavirus could prove, at least for certain aspects of these measures, more tangible for our border residents than for other citizens. Nevertheless, the nature of this crisis and the interest of public health require us all to observe, temporarily but also strictly, all the implementing measures as set out in the Ministerial Decree of 23 March 2020 on emergency measures to limit the spread of coronavirus. This order stipulates that any non-essential movement from Belgium and to Belgium is prohibited. Although the definition of essential displacement is not problematic in most situations, clarifications have been required for a range of specific cases. I would like to make it clear that French citizens are not allowed to come and buy their cigarettes, tobacco or cigars or to fill up their gas in Belgium, just as Belgian citizens can no longer cross the Dutch border to do their shopping, for example. These measures are applied to everyone. I should also like to inform you that I have recently had the opportunity to speak directly to my Luxembourg colleague, who has told us of his understanding and willingness to contribute to the usual good cooperation between our two countries in the interests of all our citizens. Mrs Rohonyi, the violence that might characterize the relationship between a prostitute and her pimp is not linked to the current pandemic and must be apprehended from the perspective of the judicial police. Any support from the Federal Police General Reserve is therefore not on the agenda. However, the Federal Judicial Police is following the evolution of the various criminal phenomena resulting from the current health crisis. This monitoring shows, inter alia, an increased risk of forced prostitution. Therefore, any measures are taken in consultation with the competent judicial authorities. The Federal Judicial Police resumes, if necessary, certain specialized investigations by the local police, if it appears, on the one hand, that organized networks are at the origin of forced prostitution or, on the other hand, if, in the current context, the police zone must direct its full capacity towards the control of the application of measures to limit the spread of coronavirus. Then I come to the questions of Mr Demon, Mr Daems and Mr Slegers on the chemical sector and the DIY business. I have already mentioned briefly in my reply to Mr Vandenput how the ministerial decision laying down urgent measures to limit the spread of COOVID-19 The Commission is also aware of the I note that there are still some misunderstandings about this. I will give you a more comprehensive explanation which will also answer your questions. In our country, the National Security Council, the NVR, extended to the prime ministers, decided on Tuesday 10 March 2020 to recommend a first set of social-distancing measures aimed at restricting contact between people who are potentially carriers of the virus. At the NVR of Thursday 12 March 2020, it was decided to strengthen the first set of measures with additional social assistance measures and to move operationally to the federal phase of crisis management in which the management cell, composed of the Prime Minister, the Ministers responsible and the Prime Ministers, manages the crisis. Most people followed these social-distancing measures very well. However, part of the population did not understand that everyone had to comply with the social-distancing measures in order to achieve the intended goal. The National Security Council, extended by the Prime Ministers, decided on Tuesday 17 March. additional measures. On the one hand, these measures are based on the evolution of the spread of the virus in Belgium. On the other hand, they resulted from the new conclusions and recommendations of CELEVAL, the federal evaluation cell. The experts insisted on further tightening up social assistance measures because they feared that the current compliance with these measures would fail to keep pressure on hospitals below acceptable levels over the next few weeks because adequate patient care could be compromised on intensive care and because there were shortages of personal protective equipment for our health workers. CELEVAL therefore proposed additional measures, in addition to the measures already taken on 10 and 12 March. These measures were included in the Ministerial Decision of 18 March 2020 on urgent measures to limit the spread of COOVID-19. Article 2 of this Decision imposes telework on all non-essential undertakings for all staff whose duties are appropriate and on social discrimination rules for the functions in which telework cannot be applied. Therefore, the non-essential companies in the inability to comply with the abovementioned measures had to close down. Article 3 then states that the provisions of Article 2 do not apply to undertakings in the key sectors and to essential services, as set out in the Annex to the Decision, on the understanding that such services and undertakings are obliged to apply, as far as possible, the system of telehome work and the rules of social distancing. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the office of the Minister of Labour, Economy and Consumers, responsible for the fight against poverty, equal opportunities and disabled people, Mrs Muylle, has provided a list of joint committees corresponding to crucial sectors and essential services. The list of critical sectors and essential services and the list of joint commissions should be read together in a complementary manner. All of this led to the establishment of a list of critical sectors annexed to the Ministerial Order. The decision to include any measure or sub-sector of the economy as an essential sector in the ministerial order or annex does not, therefore, fall within the exclusive competence of the Minister of Security and Home Affairs. Mr Samyn, you asked a question about the organisation of the Ramadan and the impact on the enforcement of the measures. This was discussed at the COFECO meeting on 6 April. In this connection, a working group was set up, which has already met several times, with representatives of the three regions, the Justice Office, the Integrated Police Task Force and representatives of the Brussels police zones. The Working Group was chaired by the Crisis Centre. The work has so far included, on the one hand, the exchange of good practice on the basis of a partnership with the various stakeholders concerned. For example, brochures were made available with a clear framework within which religious festivities should be organised, in accordance with the measures described in the Ministerial Decision on COVID-19. The Executive of the Muslims of Belgium has also issued similar guidelines. On the other hand, the work of the working group includes cooperation between the different communication services to develop a supported and targeted information campaign, with attention to all age groups and specific target groups. Meanwhile, the federal police take all possible precautions to support local police if necessary. Mr Soors, Mr Vandenput and Mr Daems, you asked questions about the enforcement of the measures by the mayors. The mayors enjoy our trust. We trust that they will enforce these directives. In order to enable constructive and efficient cooperation with local authorities, as well as to have a better view of the situation in the municipalities and provinces, consultations are held several times a week between the provincial governors and certain federal actors in crisis management. I myself have regular and at their request contact with mayors throughout the country and also with the provincial governors, at their request or at my request. During these consultations, local authorities may bring to the attention of the federal level the problems they experience on their territory, as well as other suggestions or reflections on the crisis, through the governors. In this way, the governors and mayors can fulfil their supporting role in federal policy coordination, to which they were moreover held on the basis of the Royal Decree of 22 May 2019. This support consists, on the one hand, of implementing all the policy decisions taken in the context of crisis management at federal level, and, on the other hand, local authorities can also consult with the federal level on the additional decisions that could be imposed at local level. To this end, the governors may also consult with the mayors in order to review, rewrite or, where appropriate, withdraw any decisions which are contrary to the spirit of the corona measures. In the context of administrative supervision, the supervisory authority concerned may, in accordance with the applicable regulatory provisions, suspend and/or destroy a decision of the mayor of a municipality in its territory, as the case may be, if this decision is contrary to the law, including the principles of good administration, or a general interest wider than the municipal interest. Colleagues Soors, Vandenput, Kitir and Thibaut, I am replying to your questions concerning municipal administrative sanctions. As I have already mentioned in the Commission responsible for monitoring the application of the laws of 27 March 2020 enabling the King to take action in the fight against the spread of coronavirus, cities and municipalities, on the basis of their local autonomy, opt for either a criminal or an administrative approach. I can provide you with some figures based on the minutes drawn up following the finding of infringements of the Ministerial Decree of 23 March 2020 and then recorded in the General National Data Bank (GNB). However, we must be careful in advancing these figures because they are not yet complete. According to the latest available figures, 51,183 incidents have been recorded by the police in the BNG in connection with violations of the measures taken in the fight against VOCID-19, from their introduction until 13 April 2020. However, I cannot tell you today how many cities and municipalities have so far opted for administrative control through the GAS system, or through the system of administrative sanctions made possible by Royal Decree No. 1. Cities and municipalities do not have a reporting obligation in this respect, which means that this information is not yet centrally available. However, a gentlemen's agreement was concluded with the cities and municipalities to provide us with that information. Many cities and municipalities should, if they wish to do so, decide that no. 1 treatment first through their city council and/or police council. However, cities and municipalities have a five-year reporting obligation based on Article 52 of the Municipal Administrative Sanctions Act. It sets out the number of administrative fines imposed, the categories of infringements for which they are imposed and the procedural difficulties which have arisen from the application of the law. The next GAS report is scheduled for this year and covers the GAS files that were handled from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2019. This may seem a long period, possibly a period where optimization is not directly sought. That is why I will also ask for a provisional inventory of the GAS dossiers in the period until 1 May of this year, which will include a reference period. I asked the General Safety and Prevention Board to examine whether a supplement is possible under Article 52 of the GAS Act for that specific additional question concerning the administrative enforcement of the measures taken on the basis of Royal Decree No. 1. Therefore, I will not hold on to the date originally set, at the beginning of 2021. I have called for a shorter deadline for the publication of the data. Retroactivity is not possible in criminal law and criminal law. Royal Decree No. 1 therefore has no retroactive effect. If the findings to contain infringements of the Ministerial Decision of 23 March 2020, dating from before 6 April 2020, have led to the initiation of a sanction procedure, the competent sanction officer should take into account all legal and factual elements when taking a decision in that regard. The lack of adequate legal basis may lead to no sanction being imposed. The disciplinary officer shall assess this in full independence. If the offender does not agree with the final decision of the sanction officer, he may appeal to the police judge. As Minister of the Interior, I cannot intervene in this. Mr Soors had a question about police training. On 9 April 2020, a memo from the Federal Police Commissioner General was circulated, setting out a set of principles by the Task Force GPI COVID-19 on the organisation of training. The principles take into account the necessary solidarity which police forces must show among themselves. The note contains the answer to a number of questions. Firstly, it was decided on the initial training of the prospective inspector or AINP for whom most of his training has been completed, because of its uniformity, that all AINPs who are required to complete their training before 1 June shall organise the examinations by the approved police schools, taking into account, as far as possible, compliance with the recommendations on social discrimination. In addition, these AINPs prepare for the exams in the police school and, where appropriate, finish matters. Secondly, as regards the overall functioning of the police schools, in order to ensure public safety and protect health, it was decided not to close the schools, such as the colleges and universities and on the basis of the advice of the Risk Management Group, and the lessons, preferably, are kept at a distance via Teams, the Microsoft 365 application, which you all know by now. Thirdly, there is an impact on staff shortages. The initial training courses will be continued, as well as the planned incorporations, but will be organized as far as possible at a distance. The examinations are organized, thus respecting the terms of appointment for such promotions at the end of the course. The recruitment and selection service also continues to function and organises itself, after a short break, according to the principles of social distancing. In the case of ongoing training, an evaluation may be carried out when social dis tribution measures can be phased out. The lessons that require physical contact are currently suspended. The impact will be limited in this way, but this can only be fully assessed after the expiry of the measures related to the COOVID-19 crisis period. With regard to the issue of house entry, the inviolability of the home is an essential fundamental right in a rule of law. Police forces must act with common sense and give priority to committed intervention and dialogue. As in any situation, the use of coercion is only an ultimate means, which can only be applied in cases of absolute necessity. That is why we will initially recall the rule and ask those concerned to comply with it. These principles constitute the guidelines for any police action, including in the current situation. The assessment of an intervention with the use of coercion on absolute necessity and proportionality should be done on a case-by-case basis. The finality of entering the premises laid down in Article 27 of the Police Office Act consists in searching for places to identify persons in danger or to identify the cause of the danger and, where appropriate, to evacuate persons, once the cause of it has been identified. Like any other provision that makes it possible to violate rights and freedoms, that article should be interpreted strictly. The legal protection of our police officers is also very important. Therefore, the police directives give priority to judicial intervention, either with the consent of the person who actually enjoys the place or with the permission of the competent magistrate. The local magistrate will determine whether entering the private place is justified and absolutely necessary. Any other means, with less compulsion, will be preferred. The prior consent of the magistrate allows the need to safeguard both the rights and freedoms of citizens and the legal protection of police officers. I, like you, have also taken note of the recent entry of the Antwerp police force to establish a corona breach within the framework of the administrative competence of the police on the basis of Article 27 of the Police Office Act. I'm assuming it's an exception. Dear colleague Zanchetta, with regard to your question on containment measures and single-parent families, t or stores must take the necessary steps to comply with social distancing measures and, in particular, to ensure a social distance of one and a half metres between each person. This measure does not apply to persons living under the same roof, such as parents and their children. Supermarkets must also organize themselves to limit one person's access by 10 m2 for a maximum of 30 minutes and to enable customers to make their purchases individually where possible. Although this is not an obligation, it is recommended that you make your purchases alone. Isolated parents accompanied by their children will not be denied access to the food store if they shop with their children. It is the responsibility of the store manager or owner to enforce social distancing measures. The latter must take the appropriate measures to ensure that they are respected and it can call on a private guard company, in accordance with the law of 2 October 2017 regulating private and particular security. As a first step, the store owner must take the necessary initiatives to ensure compliance. Finally, if problems arise that cannot be solved by the planned security initiatives, the police may ultimately be called upon to intervene. With regard to your question on partners who do not live under the same roof during containment measures, a visit to a partner who does not live under the same roof is considered to be an authorized trip. It is the responsibility of the individual not to visit his or her partner when he or she has symptoms and to apply the quarantine measures necessary to prevent further contamination. The general principle is that non-essential travel abroad is prohibited, but travel to a partner not living under the same roof but living abroad is allowed. Police units in the field are informed by operational guidelines issued by the Integrated Police Task Force, what is considered to be authorized and what is not. In response to your last question, I can reply that, in order to prevent the spread of the virus and to ensure the continuity of essential services for the population, exceptionally and provisionally relaxed administrative measures, particularly concerning the procedures for domicile, have been transmitted by my services by circular of 24 March 2020 to the municipalities. In normal times, the verification of the reality of the residence of a person establishing his principal residence in a municipality of the Kingdom or changing his residence in Belgium is investigated by the local authorities - in this case, the local police - within 15 working days of the declaration of change of residence. In the exceptional current context, verification of the reality of the residence can be postponed. A minimum service for urgent situations - reasoned complaints from the citizen, registration essential for the collection of certain rights and benefits, etc. - can, however, be insured by taking health precautions. During this period of risk, the local authority may also agree to register certain citizens at the declared address if certain supporting evidence is provided in the circular. However, it will be necessary to verify the reality of the principal residence later, even if it has been postponed or provisionally accepted, on the basis of certain evidence. A citizen who has changed his or her residence must be met in person at the new address of his or her principal residence. Registration and delisting procedures are therefore maintained, but adapted to the health crisis, while giving priority to emergency situations. It should be noted that, since the beginning of the confinement period, the number of moves is expected to be small, since it has also been advised to postpone all moves that may be carried out. An urgent move within the country, from or to the country is allowed, with - if possible - compliance with social distancing measures. The concept of urgency aims at: 1. the unsanitary nature of the dwelling or the imminent danger it poses to the health of the occupants; 2. the financial situation of occupants who are unable to pay for two units at the same time; 3. the fact that a new tenant, without alternative housing, must enter the occupied dwelling to be released by the move in question. Mrs. Slegers, In addition to the measures taken and the relevant communication, the heavy efforts of the police have a deterrent role and, where appropriate, a regulatory role. However, a hermetic closure of our country is not possible. The other countries that carry out border controls do not do this all the time and not all at once. The checks at the highway crossings are coordinated nationally by the federal police. The closure of the border crossings or the organisation of checks on the secondary road network is carried out by the local police on the basis of an operational analysis, which is constantly adjusted in the light of evolutions, changes or shifts on the ground. The aim is, of course, to ensure maximum coordination between the French and Belgian efforts. The director-coordinator of the federal police has a coordinating role in this regard and, where necessary, provides assistance to the federal police. On the French side, we were also officially communicated with a list of border crossing points currently to be used, which facilitates further alignment at our level. Border controls do not target goods transport or emergency services. The delivery of goods remains possible. I would like to stress once again that cooperation with our French colleagues is excellent in today's difficult times. Mrs Thibaut, with regard to your question about insecurity in railway stations, after analysis, the management of the railway police (SPC) did not record more facts with violence on its priority action field during the months of March and April 2020. All directives issued within the Integrated Police also apply to the Directorate of Railway Police. The priority and essential tasks of the railway police continue to be carried out by the police throughout its territory. An excellent collaboration is taking place with our privileged partners to solve problems on the ground. Joint and coordinated actions are implemented. Mrs Rohonyi, with regard to your question on basic needs and police controls, the police units in the field receive their operational instructions from the Integrated Police Task Force, which reflect the decisions of the National Security Council and the Ministerial Order. All travel under the Ministerial Order is permitted as such and is not considered an offence. Police have been informed about essential front-line services. The operational guidelines given to the police are up-to-date and also deal with the opening of gardening or DIY shops. With regard to your question about the disinfection of ambulance vehicles and firefighters, our administration has not been informed of any incidents in emergency areas related to ambulance missions in the context of the coronavirus crisis. Most relief areas have developed operational procedures for ambulance operations. All these procedures recommend wearing a mask for some interventions. The type of mask depends on risk analysis – not all procedures necessarily recommend wearing a mask. Procedures for post-intervention disinfection of equipment and vehicles have also been developed in many areas. As regards more specifically the disinfection of ambulances intended to transport patients potentially carrying the virus and the wearing of personal protective equipment (gants or masks) in such circumstances, the procedures for application are that issued by Sciensano, which is a public health authority. In addition, the operational units of civil protection are not involved in the transport by ambulance or in the disinfection of ambulances. These missions do not fall within their purview. No formal request for such assistance has been sent to civil protection. Each emergency area cleans its ambulances, as always. Colleague Arens, with regard to your question on the accountability of mayors in the fight against the spread of the virus, the National Security Council has decided to authorize, under strict conditions, limited visits to nursing homes. Townmasters have a key role to play in providing accurate information on their territory and maintaining law and order and security. I have also heard that mayors are taking charge of the matter in order to prohibit visits to rest homes. The competent authorities are currently working with the actors in the field to examine how such a visit could be made possible. I am firmly convinced that the various nursing homes will find creative and safe solutions to allow residents, whose psychological well-being is greatly affected by confinement, to receive visits. Mrs Daems, the federal level is not involved in the thinking exercise of the coastal mayors. This is an initiative taken by the coastal mayors themselves. As Minister of the Interior, I am not involved in this. I will therefore not comment on the content of the consultation and whether it is carried by all coastal mayors. For the summer period, maintaining the measures is crucial not only for the coast, but also for the Ardennes and other tourist hotspots. I believe that the tourist season runs from 15 June to 15 September. We absolutely must avoid taking initiatives that have not taken place in consultation with the actors concerned. The idea of a beach pass according to property may be an advice, but this has to be decided federally. As for your question about a mayor's tip on a police check, there is absolutely no way that a mayor is trying to circumvent a police check by informing citizens where there could be possible controls. I very much understand the situation in the border municipalities. In normal circumstances, the border is a fictitious given. However, these are exceptional times when we have to take decisions which are difficult but absolutely necessary to prevent the spread of the virus. A great deal of consultation has already taken place with the actors concerned in order to meet the aspirations of border municipalities. There is a virtually permanent consultation on this. In the FAQ, for example, what can and cannot be done about cross-border traffic has been listed and, in the meantime, the co-parenting questions have been addressed. With regard to your question about COVID-19 in the integrated police, I In particular, appreciate the efforts made by our police forces to maintain, in the interests of everyone, the measures taken by the government to combat the pandemic. The well-being and safety of our people in the field requires our constant attention. The risk analysis of the biological agents....... was discussed last week in the high consultation committee of the police forces and will be followed up this Friday. This risk analysis, which is based, inter alia, on scientific literature and multidisciplinary advice, provides guidance for dealing with scarce resources, in the sense that the appropriate resources are used in the right context by those who need resources on the basis of expert advice. On this basis, therefore, there is no systematic testing of police officers. The need for this is not present on the basis of the risk analysis. Staff shall continue to carry out their normal duties on the basis of the opinions of Health and in accordance with the basic rules of prevention and follow-up. Within the integrated police, however, a contact centre was developed. This contact centre has a fourfold mission, namely to inform, document, refer and signal. All the leaders of the integrated police were informed that they should report the contact centre to their staff, with due respect, of course, for the medical secrecy and anonymisation, the confirmed or suspected cases of COVID-19. The signaling of these suspected cases inevitably involves a dark number. Colleagues, Mr. Thiébaut, the Federal Occupational Risk Agency (Fedris) has recognized VOCID-19 as an occupational disease. As you are no doubt aware, there is a list system for occupational disease which links each occupational disease to the exercise of one or more occupational activities. If a worker proves that he or she is engaged in one of these occupational activities, the disease he or she is suffering from will be taken care of as an occupational disease. Compared to a worker (man/woman) who does not carry out an activity on the list and who will have to prove a causal link between his occupational activity and the disease he is suffering from, the burden of proof is particularly reduced in the list system. In the case of VOCID-19, transport by ambulance of contaminated patients is included in the list of occupational activities related to this disease. There is no distinction in this respect between a private paramedic or a professional or voluntary paramedic. The difficulty you are referring to was on another level. Although voluntary firefighters had been legally covered in the context of occupational diseases since the passage into rescue zones, a royal decree was still lacking in order to determine the practical arrangements for such coverage. Aware of this difficulty, my staff have, for the past month, increased their contacts with the relevant departments in order to find a solution as soon as possible. It's now done. I can tell you that a draft royal decree with retroactive effect will be submitted to the next Council of Ministers so that voluntary personnel in the relief zones will be compensated in the event of occupational illness, including in the list system when they carry out ambulance transport of patients contaminated with SARS-CoV-2. Your other overall question goes far beyond my area of competence and implicitly addresses many aspects that are the responsibility of several authorities. As you cite as an example the use of volunteer firefighters' hours, I can tell you what follows in this regard. Volunteer firefighters can perform a maximum of 24 hours per week on average over a 12-month reference period, i.e. 1,248 hours per year. The information coming from the relief areas does not raise any concerns about the difficulties you are referring to. On the contrary, containment linked to the epidemic results in a sharp decrease in firefighters' interventions: fewer road accidents, accidents at work and emergency medical assistance missions. Even when there were still more than 600 hospitalizations per day, the number of ambulance missions was lower than the average in previous years. In addition, many volunteer firefighters are currently temporarily unemployed in their main occupation and are therefore particularly available. It is therefore all the easier to distribute the remaining tasks among all volunteer firefighters. Mr Matz, Mr Daems and Mr Schlitz, on the question of the organisation and the very important problem of identifying intra-family violence, I already gave a very comprehensive answer in the previous committee to which I would like to refer. However, I continue to stress that police victim treatment as the basic functionality of the integrated police is and remains guaranteed. This is confirmed by the operational directive of the Integrated Police Task Force GPI COVID-19 of 27 March 2020. On the basis of the information contained in the National Data Bank (BNG) as a source of police crime statistics, it is too early to draw definitive conclusions as to the impact of the measures taken under the VOCID-19 on reports of domestic violence. However, in the absence of figures, it appears that family problems and/or violence have been greater since confinement. Indeed, the various daily reports provided to us generally contain a large number of interventions by police teams on facts known as "family disputes". This suggests that domestic violence is high because of the stress problems associated with economic difficulties and confinement. I have already mentioned it in some media. Faced with the same problems, the police services of France, the Netherlands and Spain inform us that they remain very attentive to the phenomenon of increasing domestic violence and are seeing an increase in interventions on family disputes. In conclusion, I will contact my colleague from Justice, whom I see almost permanently, in order to take a joint initiative in this area. Mevrouw Soors, Mr.Pivin, as I said, a federal VOCID-19 contact centre has been set up and all integrated police leaders have been asked to report, in a completely anonymized manner and with the utmost respect for medical confidentiality, suspected and confirmed cases of police officers with VOCID-19. To date, I can confirm that we have been informed of the deaths of three police officers. As of 20 April 2020, the contact centre has 1,773 alerts. Mr Soors, this number has no impact on our police capacity. Since 9 April, the number of alerts has fallen sensitively. No regional differences have been measured. The aim is, of course, to have an overview of the overall capacity in order to guarantee the continuity of services. In order to do so, the federal police have identified its most critical processes according to the methodology of the so-called business community planning. I referred to it at the beginning of my reply. In order to maximise these most essential processes, the other, and thus less priority, activities will be put on hold, although temporarily, and the capacity released will be partly kept in reserve to ensure longer-term continuity, and partly already used to deliver essential and priority reinforcements. Mr Pivin, as far as risk analysis is concerned, these are adaptations according to the content of the activities and the exposure to different biological agents, in accordance with the legislation in force. In addition, I can inform you that, since 18 March, 691 incidents of violence against the police have been recorded. These events mainly concern rebellions, outrages and threats. Mevrouw Soors, Mr. Pivin, with regard to oral masks, the Federal Police Logistics Directorate delivered 120,000 surgical oral masks across the country on 23 and 24 March. More than half was for the federal police (some 67,000 to be exact); 53,000 oral masks were delivered to the police areas via the DirCo's to meet the most urgent needs; 4,100 visors were also ordered for the federal police and the first 500 have already been distributed. In addition, hand gel, gloves, disinfectants and overalls were delivered. For now, the stock is sufficient. I cannot give more details on this because there is no overview of the duration of the current measures and the possibilities of purchasing, given the current global shortage. The federal police are making every effort to acquire more oral masks. To this end, five avenues are explored: the task force of Minister De Backer; a federal market; a local market; local purchases via "small purchases" credits; the in-house manufacture of handcrafted mouth masks according to the model of the Public Health FPS. The integrated police comply with the guidelines for personal protective equipment, published on the government website of Sciensano, Public Health. If the National Security Council adapts its guidelines, the police will do the same. Mrs Soors, until now there has been no obligation on staff to wear a mouth mask. The Integrated Police closely follows the decisions of the National Security Council on this issue. I can also tell you about this that the strike notice submitted in connection with mouth masks has been suspended for the time being. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, so far I have received my overall answer to the questions you have put. I am convinced that I have answered most of the questions. However, a further question from Mrs Taquin has yet to be answered. The demand has increased the number of designations for the 2020-A1 mobility year, which has caught my full attention. At the time of the 2020-A1 mobility, your police area did indeed have more candidates than jobs declared vacant. Your area has therefore selected the four most suitable candidates. Unfortunately, it is not possible to nominate more qualified candidates but not ranked in useful order because, first, aspiring managers can still be appointed in other positions corresponding to their second or third choice or, if appropriate, be appointed to another job that remains vacant. To designate them now would affect the other candidates who would be designated in their place in the employment of that second or third choice or, if applicable, in another job that remained vacant. Next, designating them in your area, although this process is not explicitly provided for in the texts, would deprive potential candidates of other deficit police areas. Finally, similar requests have already been made in the past by other police areas, which have been refused on the same grounds as I have just explained. In addition, I recommend that you continue to invest as much as possible in conventional mobility as possible in the various opportunities that have been introduced in Circular GPI 73, the circular of 14 March 2013 on the recruitment, selection and training of core staff and police services. Thank you for your understanding. I believe that I have answered all the questions that have been asked to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic154x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. There are 18 different questioners, all political groups together. I would therefore like to propose that the replies be kept very brief and concise. The Rules of Procedure provide for two minutes. We can be a little more flexible than that, but I would ask you to be brief. I will also give priority to the questioners according to the date of submission of their question. The Minister's response will be available on the extranet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic154x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. You have answered most of the questions, but I am still a little hungry with regard to the exact legal basis for the Task Force GPI. However, that is not the subject of my reply. I would like to talk about the next few days, because enforcement also presupposes clarity and predictability. The decisions taken at the previous Security Council meeting had to be implemented in far too short a time and they were not always very clear either. For the police there was very little time to organize themselves and many traders did not know whether or not they were covered by the planned relaxation. There will be a next meeting of the Security Council on Friday, with a very serious agenda. There the exit strategy will be discussed for the first time, based on the input of the GEES expert group. The current measures apply until 3 May, and I would like to tell you, as Minister for the Interior, that it is important to decide on the long-term vision of the prohibition of cooperation and the fate of all events that are not mass events by Friday. The people and the organisations need that clarity. We have always worked with short periods so far, but certainly for the events and the ban on cooperation, as well as for the Ramadan, it is good that people know a week in advance what and where. This should then apply for a slightly longer period than a few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic154x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I, too, will be brief. As far as the riots in Anderlecht are concerned, you say that you have severely condemned them. However, you know as well as I do that the crap that organized the riots in Anderlecht is not really awake from your severe condemnation. They lie awake from a possible severe conviction by the court. So let us take care of that. What happens in the courts is not within your jurisdiction, but it is crucial that the police can work very effectively. There is, on the one hand, the investigation into the riots and the detection of the perpetrators, on the other hand, it is also useful to have a look at what exactly happened and what went wrong. You say that the police have acted very professionally there. I know that it is very difficult to work in Brussels, because I have close contact with a number of people here on the ground. It is not easy to work here, but things have gone wrong when a police combi is smashed up and a service weapon is stolen. Then things must have gone wrong there. I know it happened because the police were on the other side of the street at the time, but besides the external investigation, it is important to look internally at what might have gone wrong. I hope your severe conviction can be followed by a severe conviction before the court. You say that the consultations concerning asylum seekers' centres are still ongoing. I hope so. I hope, however, that something will come out soon. We are still getting a lot of signals from the ground, from mayors, local residents, police forces and people working in those asylum seekers' centres, that the situation there has still not improved. Those asylum seekers often do not understand what the corona virus is and do not take all the measures into account. As it happens, I received photos from Saltleeuw ten minutes ago. A few days ago, asylum seekers were banished because they had drunkenly broken into a building that was being renovated near the asylum centre. They violated the corona measures and attacked the police, who banished them. So there is still a huge amount of error there. Part of this is due to the fact that responsibility is shifted to that Risk Assessment Group to determine exactly what should happen to those asylum seekers' centres. Minister, there are virologists in this group, scientists, who are not people who have already visited an asylum-seekers' centre. They don't know exactly what's going on there. Your colleague De Block says that these asylum seekers' centres are pushed into exactly the same category as an ordinary apartment building. However, you also know that this is absolutely not the same. An apartment building requires a completely different approach from an asylum seekers' centre, which is something very specific. I'm afraid that Risk Assessment Group didn't take that into account. I hope that you will take this into account in consultation with Mrs De Block's services and that you will respond to the many legitimate concerns expressed by local residents, mayors and others. I will make other comments for another time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic154x.u11	Mr President, Minister, I think I have received all the answers to my questions, apart from a few figures, but I will ask them again by means of a written question. I would like to say a few words about two things. You replied last week about the legal value of those frequently asked questions and you confirmed this. The only legal basis to make records is that ministerial decision. I am pleased that this is clear and that it is clear to all police officers throughout the country. We know that a policeman in Aarlen may have a slightly different interpretation than a policeman in Ostend, but they do have the same basis. That's good. I have also heard you say that if new measures come into force, this ministerial decision will be amended. I'm joining my colleague Donné. There really needs to be more time between the announcement and the implementation. That's kind of gone wrong because of the speed of making decisions and making announcements. Perhaps it would be better for you to announce measures in the future which will only come in a week's time, with the details being made clear within that week. The recent past shows that a shorter decision period, whereby Friday was decided on measures to be introduced on Saturday or Sunday, is not really the right way, as there is simply not enough time for organisation and communication. With regard to the events in Anderlecht, I would like to add that there has been a problem. In addition, the police have acted well. As always in our society, a small group of less than 4 or 5 percent that defies the rules, ruins it for the rest of the population. Such misdeeds against the police and law enforcement may be punished even more severely, for example through the right to speed, because now there is still a sense of impunity. I can't wait to see what the Justice Department's gonna do to all these rioters. I expect a very drastic approach to these matters. Colleagues, perhaps in the post-corona era in this committee we should consider a much stricter approach to violence against law enforcement, both by the police and by legal systems. This is what the people are asking for, and it is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic154x.u12	Minister, I do not wish to put anyone in trouble with my questions and especially not you. Indeed, you know that I appreciate you just as I appreciate your work, Mr. De Crem. However, I really insist that you take into account the situation of the inhabitants of the villages and communes on the border. In Martelange, for example, citizens can normally shop at local grocery stores, in food stores 50 metres away from their homes. Today, however, they have to travel miles to more important centres where they are called upon to meet more people. Finally, with the decree specifying certain measures on certain borders, we are far from meeting the objective pursued, in any case as regards the persons concerned. I would like the governors, mayors and divisional staff to be able to take advantage of the possibility offered by certain derogations and to take their responsibility by allowing the inhabitants of these border communes to continue to live by protecting themselves to the maximum extent possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic154x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answers. I confess that I am very satisfied with the precise and complete answers you have given to our questions. That changes us from what happens in some committees. I am thinking here, in particular, of the Committee on Health, which met yesterday. I would now like to return to your responses to the problem of domestic violence. It is true that we had already asked you about this on 8 April. But if you are being questioned again on the subject today, it is because your answers and the sad news of the past few days called for new questions. You continue to assure us that the follow-up of victims is a reality and even a priority for our police forces. However, we learn every day, through the press or the neighbourhood, that cases of violence persist, but also that certain police areas are limited to saying that they cannot take into account complaints related to this kind of fact and therefore draw up minutes. I am thinking here, in particular, of the tragedy that occurred last Monday in Molenbeek, where a woman was disfigured by her ex-companion while she had been filing a complaint with the police for more than five years. This situation is unacceptable! Indeed, section 40 of the Police Function Act is clear. It stipulates that any complaint brought to the attention of a police officer shall be the subject of a report. Mr. Minister, I would have liked you to tell me whether an investigation by Committee P is planned to, for example, determine the reasons why these complaints are not followed by minutes. You also refer to an increase in police patrols, given the fear of reprisals very prevalent among victims of violence. Are we now in a position to guarantee the confidentiality of these interventions? Finally, Minister, I would like to ask you a question which I have not had an answer at the time. I don't know if you'll be able to answer it now. How is the police now monitoring decisions prohibiting the residence of perpetrators of violence? This control must be guaranteed in spite of confinement. For the rest, I am relieved to hear that you will finally take a joint initiative with the Minister of Justice. It has been a long time since this initiative was called for, since it is really time to consider the fight against violence between partners, as well as the protection of children, as a real priority. With regard to the police protection of prostitutes, I understand that this is the responsibility of the Federal Judicial Police. That is why I will be asking Minister Geens about this this afternoon. I am pleased to hear that, given the increased risk of forced prostitution during confinement, measures will be taken with the competent authorities. But I still think it's not enough. At our previous meeting, you assured us, with regard to domestic violence, that you were, for example, in favour of initiatives to reconnect with the victims. I think it must be the same for women who are prostitutes or even men who are dependent on a pimp. The problem is that some of them do not dare to file a complaint, simply because the law on the police function provides that anyone staying illegally – and we know that many of them are targeted – who claims to have been subjected to economic exploitation or sexual violence with the police would be arrested for illegal stay. You should therefore have a reflection on this with Minister De Block, both with regard to a derogation in the Police Function Act and with regard to the possible regularisation, in any case temporary, of these persons so that they can assert their rights and be protected. I will end with essential travel. I am pleased to hear that a circular (COL 6/2020) has been adopted and has been followed by operational directives that are given to all police areas. It was more than useful in order to clarify what was meant by "essential displacement". I would also like to thank the police for their work on the ground and their mobilization. However, this does not prevent certain movements from being considered essential in certain police areas when they are. I am thinking in particular of visits to the doctor or family planning centres. I therefore hope that greater awareness of our police areas can be set in motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic154x.u14	Mr Vandenput, Mr Donné, first of all I would like to contradict you a little bit. I accept that there was probably some confusion on Friday. On Friday, the National Security Council will meet again and everything will have to be looked at in the long term, perhaps faster than in two days. I hope, however, that if we are going to open things up, we will not take a week or two weeks for that at all. Some things were clear, but people must also accept that clarity. Sometimes people start to interpret things or even fantasize a little, creating a certain lack of clarity. That is why it is not a bad thing to act quickly. I just wanted to make that point. In view of the future, I would also like to warn you about balloons. It is good that ministers communicate on decided matters, but I abhor the fact that today the report of the specialists for Friday has already been leaked in the newspaper. There's nothing worse than that. People think this is already in place, the questions are coming in. Really, I hope we can all fight that. My questions have been answered very well. However, there is still the question of the chemical sector. I know you'll pass this on to Minister Muylle, and we'll take that up with her. After all, it is important to clarify this, for it is unclear, for example, what is essential. In my opinion, corona testers are essential, but making sandwich boxes does not seem essential in the chemical sector. That's gonna have to be refined. Finally, the police were important and priority for you in terms of mouth masks, which is very good. You said you'd work with the firefighters after that. A lot of questions have been asked about that too. Is it true that in your vision of using mouth masks within your department, the fire department will be the next group?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic154x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. With regard to compliance with the measures taken during the Ramadan period, I note from your reply that there is close consultation with governors and local authorities, but I would like to stress that in some places additional federal support capacity may be needed. We all know that the Muslim community, whether it is practicing or not, is a so-called difficult community to reach. Meanwhile, many politicians, mayors, BV's and imams have indeed tried to convey the message. You mentioned brochures that were made available with a clearly defined framework. A large part of the community will settle, another part may not. Then we look at you, as the Minister of the Interior, in order to manage everything and, if necessary, to act and maintain order. Let it be clear from the beginning that there can be no exceptions in this period of Ramadan. We are not allowed to go to church either, we are not allowed to attend the Masses on Sundays. So meetings in the mosque shouldn't be allowed either, not even blindly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic154x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answers. I had six questions for you, so it's not obvious to replicate succinctly, but I'm trying. I shall, of course, begin with the legal validity of the measures. In the meantime, we have been discussing this for many weeks. Indeed, it is clear that the ministerial decision is the only basis on which fines can be imposed. But the contradictions remain. I'm gonna stay there week after week. You referred to the short time frame in which things have to be done. All this is understandable, but that does not mean that we are so many weeks away, and that we will now have to anticipate the exit strategy in particular, where the measures on what is and is not allowed will have to be more nuanced. I will continue to argue in favour of as much clarity as possible. Remove the contradictions between the legal ministerial decision and what is added in the interpretations of the Crisis Centre. Keep working on that, which is really a priority for clarity on the ground. Another point I would like to make is that of residence without a court order. Minister, I am very pleased to hear you say that prior authorisation from a magistrate is the objective. I hope that it will be pursued as far as possible. You also referred to the last weekend in Antwerp. I note that there was no prior authorisation there. In addition, I have to note that the rapid response team, a team deployed in dangerous and armed situations, was chosen while two people were in one residence. This raises questions of proportionality. I think that, however, is the starting point, on which we must continue to work. So I'm still concerned about the possible residential entrances. My final point concerns the physical reception of the local police zones. Unfortunately, I had to read yesterday that the figures of domestic violence in Flanders have quadrupled. Combined with the fact that certain police zones are no longer accessible to file a complaint at all, unless by telephone, online or by appointment, that is a real problem. This means that someone who becomes a victim of domestic violence must either wait for an appointment to be made, or go online into an impersonal service, while the personal interview is the basis of help and intervention in such a situation. I hope that will be monitored. I will end with the three key words that are important to me: clarity in the field, legal certainty and accessibility of services. I hope that will continue to be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic154x.u17	Mr President, I shall start with a general comment. The way in which you have made this topical debate work by first giving the floor to the minister, and then letting the parliamentarians reply, has made us more effective. I would therefore like to thank you for that. It is a better way to work than to let everyone ask their questions and wait for the answers. Minister, thank you too. My questions were divided into two parts. First, they dealt with police equipment and equipment. You responded - not just to me, but more importantly to the police. As proof, I want to cancel their notice of strike, which shows their satisfaction with the listening you give them. Then I asked you about the crime. You said it was too early to identify trends. I understand that very well. In the light of the hindsight we have taken, we will ask you again at a later stage. There is only a small question that I have not heard from you. I have seen that some have re-launched a denunciation site called "Police Watch", which I have little interest in. On the other hand, I would like to know the number of possible increases in assaults on police officers since the beginning of the confinement period. Again this morning, I read in a daily newspaper that the spokesman for the Brussels-Ixelles police zone indicated a considerable increase in the number of insults to police officers. In order for the spokesperson for the main police area of the Brussels Region to express herself in this way, the figures must be of concern. Therefore, I would have liked to have some clarifications and comments on this perhaps worrying development, but it is obviously necessary to address it in a calm manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic154x.u18	Minister, thank you for your full answers. Even if it comes a little late, I thank you in particular for the initiative related to violence against women. You have decided, together with Minister Geens, to send a circular to the police areas asking them insistently to take into account the complaints filed in this regard for the past three months. This measure is developing in Brussels and I proposed, more than fifteen days ago, to extend it to the whole Kingdom. I had also proposed a note on how this could be done with regard to the concept of community policy. You have cited France and Spain, countries for which pharmacists are referent. This measure is very late because alerts have been coming from the voluntary sector and political power for several weeks. This circular is imperative and necessary. I was contacted yesterday by a lady harassed by her ex-husband. When she filed a complaint in a police area, this complaint was considered non-emergency. It was necessary to call the communal authorities and ask them to take his complaint into consideration. It is therefore not for the form that we are asking for protective measures for women who are particularly distressed during this period of confinement. Thank you and I would like to point out that you listened – even if it was late – to the documents we exchanged. I hope that the police services will be able to accommodate these victims and ensure prevention for certain situations which are of particular importance at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic154x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer. I would like to return to what Mr Colebunders said earlier. I am pleased that you have now replied in more detail. You are now saying again that you will respond urgently to questions for further clarification. We are happy to keep you to that, as we are still waiting for answers to questions from two weeks ago. You have just answered our questions about residential entrances, for which you are grateful. It is very good to hear that all other methods are preferred before entering into residence. However, we would also like to see figures in this regard. If we follow the normal written procedure, we will get an answer when the first wave of corona is over, which, of course, makes no sense for parliamentary control. I now come to the substantive points. I hear you saying that the VBO was involved in the decisions of the National Security Council on the reopening of shops. In particular, I notice the influence of Voka, as it seems that family business is at a disadvantage in relation to the large chains. Both large chains and small businesses sell garden furniture in addition to garden and DIY material, but for the large chains this is apparently more quickly overlooked. I also hear you say you trust the mayors. That is necessary, because the mayors are very close to the people. As with the discipline of the population, there is also a persistent minority of obstructors among the mayors. I do not want to overestimate the influence of the mayors, but we must urge all mayors not to play soloslim and consult with the federal level instead of creating confusion in the media. That is why I am very pleased with your answer. With regard to the discussion among coastal mayors, I regret that the federal level is not involved. The enforcement of the measures is best done in a clear and well-prepared manner. We also speak out against beach passes for second stayers, as these beach passes are antisocial and legally built on loose sand. We hope for a clear policy of managing coastal tourism. However, I also like to defend the so-called fridgebox tourists, even though some mayors have been trying to keep them off the Belgian coast for a long time. I would also like to thank you for your reply on the police test capacity. Of course, we must divide up the scarce tests properly. The police understand that completely. However, we still hear a great deal of concern about the effort to identify the exact disease breakdown in the local police. We are told that there is a mechanism, but we would have liked to have heard from you how many people have fallen out of the local corps. This brings me back to the question asked by Mr Gaby Colebunders two weeks ago. Finally, you refer to your previous answer to the question about intra-family violence. At that time we were satisfied that the police would make this violence her priority. However, we would again like to hear figures from you. Is there a sharp rise? What mid-term review do we make of enforcement in the current new situation? What are the pain points and success formulas? Do the police manage to reach the victims? We really need to give victims of intra-family violence the signal that they are not alone. We would therefore like to receive more specific information on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic154x.u20	Minister, I would like to thank you very much for your detailed answers to my questions about border crossings, because coordination between local police areas is very important. Experience has shown that in the long run people are beginning to know who is where. If changes can be made to the schedules, better compliance can be ensured. This is also important for the motivation of our policemen who are doing their best, and the inhabitants of the municipalities in our border region, who are also doing their best. It is not fun for them because they are always the same ones who try not to comply with the measures. Last weekend there was a lot of commotion about the so-called multi-bazaars in West Flanders. I therefore hope that those who prepare Friday's decisions will take this into account and make it clear as explicitly as possible what is meant. This could save a lot of time for our mayors and other people who are being called upon to do so. I am confident that this problem will now be taken into account in the discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic154x.u21	Mr. Chairman, I thank the minister for having answered so fully all our questions. I think it is important to stress that. As far as my questions are concerned, I am reassured about volunteer firefighters. If you quickly take the orders you have announced, they will benefit, like other firefighters, from insurance coverage, which will allow them to obtain reimbursement of any hospitalization costs and costs incurred as a result of possible contamination. To my question about the charges specifically related to coronavirus for the communes, you replied that most of these charges did not fall within your purview. That is true, but on the other hand, you are the Minister of the Interior and you are competent in police matters. I take the example of my police area. Today we have three times as many police officers in the field as usual to check that confinement is respected. We also have the necessary capacity for border control, and other colleagues have raised this issue. I have almost 50 km of borders with France. Today, the police capacity we have to put on the ground is really huge in these times of crisis. This will necessarily result in overtime and additional costs. These additional costs should not be borne entirely by police areas. In my view, we will have to provide federal assistance. I add that I have returns from the ground concerning different areas, by only mine. Areas are seeking more federal support for logistics and personnel, and not just directives of any kind from the federal government. They need financial, logistical and staff support to assist the areas on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic154x.u22	Mr Minister, I thank you for these answers which meet the questions of Members in practice. I come back to my question about the follow-up of complaints and victims of domestic violence. I had already questioned you on April 8th. If I asked you again, it was because some aspects of the answer did not seem sufficient and did not satisfy me. Return from the field is that the reception continues not to be optimal everywhere, far from there. There was obviously the drama of last week. A woman who had filed a complaint for more than five years against her ex-husband, who had filed a complaint a few days ago, was the victim of her attacker. The police told her she couldn't do anything. I believe that the measures should be strengthened in this regard. I am pleased to hear that you will take a coordinated initiative with Minister Geens. It's really a good thing. With Jessika Soors on 25 March, we were already sending you a letter with several recommendations to put in place during the crisis. In particular, the aim was to generalise the initiative of the Brussels-Nord area, in order to ensure that every person who had lodged a complaint within three months was recontacted, in order to show that there was a police presence, not only for the victim but also for the aggressor. This makes it possible to send a signal: the police are there, despite the confinement and the crisis. Another very important element for us is the ban on residence, which so far has been very little, if any, enforced. As we know, Prosecutor De Valkeneer has said before Parliament again recently, this measure needs to be reviewed. And yet, unfortunately, the new version has not yet been implemented. It's really a big deal. Another subject is the control of this residence ban. On the other hand, I did not get an answer about what you define as "emergency or particularly serious form of victimization". It's still a big blur for me. I would also like to know whether there is an analytical grid that would allow one complaint to be considered more than another. It also remains rather blurry. How many police stations have set up the Northern Brussels area initiative so far? I didn't get an answer on that. I also insist that statistics be kept, because we need them to manage the crisis. We are beginning to be well engaged in crisis management. I am also thinking of the post-crisis situation, in order to be able to analyse and continue to make progress in the fight against domestic violence. One last element. The Inter-Ministerial Conference will meet shortly. I would like to repeat that the federal government plays a leadership role in the coordinated fight between the various entities against domestic violence. I hope that you, together with your federal colleagues, will be able to assume this role, to come to this interministerial conference with an ambitious position, with means to the key.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic154x.u23	I think that's what everybody's been talking about. Mr. Secretary, would you like to add something?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic154x.u24	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic154x.u25	I can agree with that. Indeed, we intend to have the committee meet regularly in order to continue to organise such topical debates and to address other non-corona-related questions and have them answered by the Minister, if his agenda permits. I thank everyone for the input and close the work for today.
