ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u1	Colleagues, I will begin by thanking House staff, since it is normally a holiday and the buildings are closed all week because of the VOCID-19 pandemic, which we are going to discuss. I would therefore like to thank the secretariat, the full report service, the translators, the bailiffs. This meeting mobilizes a lot of staff. We wanted to organise it today, given the health crisis we are going through. It was important to take stock with Minister Vandenbroucke of the situation, addressing the many questions that members had to ask. Welcome to everyone, welcome to you, Minister. I'm in front of an empty room. To set an example, we have decided to limit the presence of people in buildings. One hundred and sixty-nine questions were tabled. That's a famous package! Unless someone objects, I will take it that all the members' questions have been answered. [[Sentiment]] The full account of this current affairs debate will appear on the House's website this evening. A few days later, your questions will be added to the annex. I must excuse my comrade – if I may say so – Sofie Merckx, whom I will replace. In other words, I'll do two hats today, and I'll try to make it clear when I get out of my role as president, but I guess that'll be clear. We have agreed with the Minister that he will develop an introductory statement, in principle of some 20 minutes. We will judge the time it needs to go to the essential things. Of course, in this period of time, he will not have the opportunity to answer all the questions. Secondly, each political group will have the usual speaking time, to which I shall respect. As you are at home, I will warn you when you have 30 seconds left. Of course, you will be able to engage in what the minister has explained or re-launch it on one or the other issue of detail. In any case, you will not have to blame him for not answering all your questions. Then he'll answer you again. Minister, I give you the floor for your introduction and I thank you for your release.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u2	Mr President, I would also like to thank the services of the Chamber for making this sitting possible today. I've got 169 questions. We can only deal with them in a good way if I give a general introduction, for which I have been given some 30 minutes. In that general introduction, I shall start with the questions that have been put. So I think I will answer most of the questions, although they will sometimes find that answer somewhat general in nature, somewhat less detailed than what was desired. This is often due to the lack of detailed data, as one hoped to obtain. Whoever asks for more details, I will have to answer a few times that there is no more detail available. Of course, I will not have exhausted everything. That is why I agree that I should like to give an introduction and that the political groups should then take the floor. I shall take note of what has been said. Then perhaps you should give me five minutes to go through documentation. I have more than 160 questions and answers next to me, but that is not very clear to me either. If, after the additional questions from the political groups, you give me a moment to go over these questions, I can try to answer them. If you will excuse me, I will keep my introduction in Dutch. That's the simplest thing for me. If I speak too quickly, the interpreters should give a signal that I need to speak more slowly. I'll start with something that unfortunately is an obvious thing. I will not give you any figures. It is clear that we are in a very serious, critical situation with regard to the number of infections. That number is extremely high. The growth rate is flattening a bit, but there remains an exceptionally high number of infections per day. The number of hospitalizations is also historically high. The number of people who end up in intensive care after hospitalization is also very high, and, unfortunately, also the number of deaths. One could see that coming, of course. That is also why last week the Consultation Committee took a number of decisions which we hope will have a strong impact on the number of social contacts of our people. We must make the number of social contacts as small as possible in the coming period. To convey that simple message to the public as effectively as possible, a harmonised approach was important, an equal approach across the three regions, for all Flemings, Walen and Brusselsers. After discussion, which is never easy, we finally got there last Friday. I hope that the measures will gradually have an additional effect on the impact of the measures we took fourteen days ago and that they will be able to ensure that the situation remains manageable. In the introduction, I will first say a few things about the situation, including what capacity is in hospitals and what capacity is in testing, after which I come back to a number of bottlenecks. It's getting a little mixed up. I hope you can understand that. First, I'm going to say something about the hospital capacity. Simply put, in Belgium there are normally 2,000 beds for intensive care. We have asked to expand the beds for intensive care, so a number of existing, regular beds also to be used for intensive care. The hospitals were supposed to have increased that number today from 2,000 to 2,300. Well, that worked out, too. There have even become a few dozen more beds than envisaged. So that's good news. It is then assumed that hospitals will increase the number of beds for intensive care by 7 November to 2,800. That's a very difficult exercise for the hospitals. That is always a difficult exercise, but it is now in particular a very difficult exercise, because there is a shortage of staff. You know the reasons for this. In any case, there is not too much qualified staff, but the care providers are also tired from the previous crisis and there is a lot of breakdown. I'll talk about the staff problem again in a moment. From 2,000 beds for intensive care through 2,300 beds, which we are already sitting on today, we go to the target of 2,800 beds. If this objective is achieved, 2,000 patients with COVID-19 can be cared for on intensive care in a Belgian hospital and 800 patients who are not affected by COVID-19. These are, of course, Belgian figures and the figures do not correspond to the hospitals. There are frontrunners, such as Hainaut, Liège and Brussels, and there are provinces that, unfortunately, are in pursuit, namely Namur, East Flanders, West Flanders and Antwerp. Where the crisis has hit the hardest, the rate of occupancy of intensive care beds by COVID-19 patients is often already very high. That's why transports are important. We hope, of course, through transports between hospitals, that the fatal limit of 2,000 beds occupied by patients infected with COVID-19 will not be exceeded. Even if hospitals manage to bring the total ICU capacity to 2,800 beds, there will really be too few beds for the other intensive care, which is also needed, if more than 2,000 beds are needed for COVID-19 patients. We're actually hoping we can't get up there. It's a little careful what the numbers will do in the next few days. But even if that is so, even if the quantitative net is manageable: the pain that we are in our health care system, the pain that we are in hospitals and the first line, the pain that we are in to the staff, is terrible. This is in itself a reason for keeping up with the decisive measures that have been taken at the moment, so that we move quickly enough towards stabilisation and then towards falling figures. Questions were asked about the transports. There are a lot of transports going on in Belgium. More than 550 have been carried out since the beginning of October. This is primarily happening within the existing hospital networks, and then it is about hospitals that have a partnership. However, many transports have already taken place across the provincial and linguistic boundaries. You know that a number of transports to Germany have already taken place. The unfortunate news is that Germany itself is now experiencing an increase in the number of COOVID-19 infections. It is now, of course, cautious with commitment of beds, although it has many beds. Of course, throughout Europe, the corona crisis has flared up. This obviously makes it much less obvious to call for solidarity outside our national borders. There are several questions about hospital capacity. The question often arises as to whether additional hospitals, emergency hospitals and field hospitals should be set up. In general, that is not our first solution. I visited a very nice realization in Verviers, where they created additional capacity on the site of the local hospital with a tent. That's very nice. It's really on the hospital site, which is something other than setting up a field hospital at some distance from the hospital. The latter is really not easy and really not the first priority. The first priority is optimization within hospitals and staff. This does not mean that we cannot look for shelters outside hospitals for patients who have stayed in the hospital for some time and cannot yet go home. These people need to get into an intermediate structure. At the previous corona wave, people sometimes talked about switching centres, but that's not what we're seeing now. Now we see that rehabilitation hospitals or rehabilitation centres are being sought with the question of whether they can host patients who come from the hospital but still need proper care in an intermediate phase and therefore cannot go home or return to the home-care centre. The new structures that are being taken are not hospitals, they are actually transition structures for people who have left the hospital. Within the hospitals we are currently in the process of optimizing. A fairly large proportion of the people who are on intensive care with COVID-19 are probably dependent on oxygen decanoate not a low flow oxygen bottle but really a firm dose of.......................................................................................................................................................... We have therefore agreed with the hospitals through our Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee (HTSC) that they will try to set up departments that we call in our jargon covid high oxygen care units. They are therefore units for patients who do need a high dose of oxygen but otherwise do not need the technology they have in the ICU. We assume that about a quarter of the people who come from intensive care with COVID-19 could be taken into account. It's a pretty big group. Imagine that, in a bad scenario, at some point, 2,000 people with COVID-19 are in intensive care. If one can transfer a quarter of it to this intermediate care, no regular beds but also no intensive care, where one can administer high oxygen care, then one can remove 500 people from intensive care and make room for others. That's what the hospitals are doing. This will undoubtedly be easier in some hospitals than in others. There is a potential bottleneck with regard to the equipment, because Optiflow devices for the administration of oxygen must be available. We have conducted a survey among hospitals on the availability of these Optiflow devices, and on this basis we have decided to buy some 200 extra centrally, so that we can make them available to the hospitals that would be in short supply. I do have hope about the ability of hospitals to carry out this and therefore to provide intermediate care in hospitals, which can relieve the actual intensive care, but, again, that is not an easy message for the staff. It is, after all, a change of heart that brings with it a great deal of concern, but we cannot appreciate and appreciate the fact that this exercise will also be carried out. I'll be back on the transports. I am very pleased that an amendment was tabled last week by the Chamber to amend the law, allowing, on the one hand, a clearer instruction of hospitals to spread and transport patients and, on the other hand, it is clear that the chief physician can decide, even if the family is not convinced. That does not mean that we should not speak seriously with the family, because that is very delicate. Of course one must speak seriously with the family, but in such emergencies one cannot continue to speak if a family refuses. If it is medically sound, then we must be able to decide. That was a bottleneck in some places, and that was solved by the Chamber. This greatly facilitates the situation. A not insignificant detail is that we centrally provide additional transport capacity, in particular three additional MUGs with associated equipment and crews, thirty ambulances and air transport. I come to another subject. Questions have been asked about what happens to non-urgent care. A directive has been issued for this purpose, a sort of exit plan. It sets out an order of priorities, which is called the elective and planned activities in hospitals, the things that can be planned and which can be chosen. If they use intensive care, these are the first ones that can be switched off and effectively switched off. Then follow the classic hospitalizations that do not use intensive care and then the surgical day hospital activities that do not use intensive care. Then follow the non-surgical day hospital activities and then the consultations, home hospitalization and mobile teams. That's the plan, that's the order in which hospitals have to make decisions. I myself find that very delicate because of the fact that we are dealing with grey areas, which is urgent and what is not. These are really difficult grey areas, very difficult considerations, and it is precisely that kind of problem that we should not overdo in our hospitals. The phasing-out should always be done by consensus with the doctors concerned and in accordance with the advice of the Supreme Council of Medicine Specialists and Doctors. I would like to stress that in hospitals we can and must continue the routine consultations and investigations that do not require hospitalization. People need to know that they can actually go to the hospital for a consultation or investigation without hospitalization. It is important that we give that message. As far as staff is concerned, you can read in the press about all kinds of initiatives concerning students, nursing professors, pensioners and volunteers. That's heartwarming. The major problem is, of course, the qualified staff and a number of obstacles to what can be done in traditional regulations on staff deployment. I would like to thank the Chamber once again. After all, the amendment you adopted last week to allow more people to take tests is very important. I'll repeat. Prior to the amendment, classical legislation concerned only doctors, nurses, midwifes who had obtained their diploma before 1 October 2018 and who were allowed to practice nursing, medical laboratory technicians, students undergoing training during their internship as doctors, nurses or medical laboratory technicians. Those were the groups that could take tests. You extended that list of groups last week to include a series of people, such as midwifes who graduated after 1 October 2018, dentists, pharmacists, logopedists, paramedics with at least two years of experience and dental hygienists. That's very good. I hope that people who manage the test centres will quickly realise the possibilities of re-fluxing more qualified staff in the centres into hospital care. That does not mean that we are at the end of our problems. After all, our regulations are traditionally very strict in terms of quality. However, in such an emergency, there must be greater flexibility. Discussions are under way for additional regulatory changes. I also hope, with your cooperation, that we will very quickly be able to make additional changes to the legal framework which makes it very difficult for staff to be used flexibly in such emergencies. The first line is also under great pressure. I don't have to point that out to you. As you know, I have decided that we will take a one-shot measure with regard to the financing of general practitioners. The simplest one-shot measure was temporary and significantly improving the financing of the Global Medical Dossier. There will be an extra 20 euros, which can be used for administrative support. You do not hear me say that this measure is the end of the story for the first line. We can certainly think of other things in consultation with the regions and communities, in order to provide additional financial support for the first line. However, I do not wish to venture to do so at this stage. These are points which, of course, appear in the agenda of the Inter-Ministerial Conference. So we may be able to do more, but the regions and communities must also be involved. Of course, the administrative stool, which entered into force yesterday, is important with regard to the attestation for the collection of a test. School doctors and company doctors can do that on their own now. These administrative feces are also there for the quarantine attestation, which people will now be able to download when they come from a foreign red zone or have had high risk contact. That worries me a little, because this assumes that people are used to working in an internet environment and have the necessary application. There is still work to be done, but this is basically an important feces of the general practitioners. Our test capacity is very high compared to other countries. Other countries envy our figures. We have a new initiative, the federal testing platform bis. In November, this new platform will reach a capacity of between 25,000 and 40,000 tests per day. In December and January we want to increase that to 50,000. If we add to what already exists, we can grow to 100,000 to 110,000 tests a day by the end of the year. In addition to the creation of that federal testing platform bis, labs for clinical biology are also being negotiated that also help to achieve that additional testing capacity. You followed the saga. The increase in the number of infections and the number of close contacts with infected persons was such that we were completely inundated. It took a lot longer before people with symptoms got the results of their test. So we had an unacceptable number of days between the time of the decrease in the test in someone with symptoms and the result of the test. That is why we now want to reprioritise. People with high risk contact with no symptoms are now quarantined for ten days, but we're not going to test them anymore. I know there is a lot of discussion about this. In an ideal environment with much less virus circulation one would test those people, because then they should not be quarantined for long. We can't do that today. A question was also put in relation to travellers. So that's where the quarantine applies. Returning travellers are evaluated via a self assessment tool. If it turns out that they have an increased risk of COVID-19, they are asked to enter quarantine by text. They're also getting a quarantine test. Anyone who has symptoms will be tested and put into isolation. The bottomline is the message not to go abroad. We have not banned it, because that is a bit difficult for a small country like ours, with a lot of professional traffic despite everything. No ban, but it's highly inadvisable. Of course, you also know the system of the Passenger Locator Form, where people have to fill out an electronic or non-electronic form if they were abroad for more than 48 hours. I find the same concern in the questions: why do people who come or go abroad not become preventive? Again, we burden our test capacity at a time when we have a lot of people with symptoms. So we'd rather not do that. If someone has another test carried out as part of a foreign journey, he will pay for it himself. Let me repeat once again that the testing policy for staff in the healthcare sector is different. First of all, we assume that staff in the healthcare sector themselves are extremely hygienic. They know they have to. If someone in the healthcare sector develops COVID-19 symptoms, or anything that points to them, they must isolate and be tested. Health personnel with no symptoms that have high risk contact can still be tested, because they are health personnel. Day five after the last exposure, they say. Depending on the result, it may be a somewhat shorter period of quarantine, but still sufficiently long, because the test should not be taken immediately after contact. That's a story of at least seven days. If it is positive, the person must, of course, be quarantined for at least seven days from the sampling. There are also appointments for roommates of people who work in care. If a roommate of a care worker is symptomatic, he must undergo a test. If that test is positive, this means that the partner who is a professional care professional has had high risk contact and therefore needs to be tested. Once again, questions have been raised concerning sport. It's kind of annoying to say. We all have our ideas about it. Preventive testing of sportsmen and women is not covered by the official test indications. However, some sports associations have included preventive testing in their protocols. Frankly, I do not really have a view of the extent to which the sports associations carry out this kind of practice of preventive testing of professional sportsmen and women. Questions have also been submitted about the testing centres. There are now 123 triage and purchasing centers, where the activity is pressured. A dozen of them seem to be not very active. We have asked the Länder to contact those few active centres to reactivate them. The RIZIV has defined a funding framework for test villages or other alternative forms of purchasing centres. However, the initiative for such centres is based on the Länder. Mr President, some extremely urgent documents are being submitted to me for signature, if you will allow me a moment. It's about additional funding for the hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u3	Then sign as soon as possible, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u4	Mr President, with your agreement, I would like to continue my introduction. There are also questions about alternative forms of purchasing centres, such as test villages. This requires an initiative from the Länder, but they can benefit from funding under a specific agreement with the RIZIV. It has actually been stated that we can finance 15 such agreements, with testing villages and other alternative organisations, depending on the needs that arise. There was also a demand for the role of consortia of home nurses. Steel collections in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic are currently coordinated from the various triage and collection centres. Through them, the organisation, the data collection, the collaboration with the labs and the funding are streamlined. In order to provide additional support to these centres, RIZIV may conclude agreements with consortia of home nurses to provide nurses for the centres. There is now a consortium for each of the five Flemish provinces and for the arrondissement of Verviers. Applications for the arrondissement of Dinant and the Brussels capital region will soon be dealt with by the RIZIV Insurance Committee. If necessary, these triage and purchasing centres may also call on those home nurses for steel collections at home. This is a temporary and exceptional approach, which could be worked out and rolled out very quickly. This remains important in order to relieve the burden on the general practitioners. During a recent consultation, representatives of the sector in the Committee on Nursing and Insurance have indicated themselves that they wish to maintain this coordination from the triage and purchasing centres. I think I gave that up last time. Although structural anchoring through a change of nomenclature is not excluded in the future, the current system with a coordinating role by triage and purchasing centres remains the preferred one. A accountability threshold has also been introduced to stop abuse in the accounts of non-executed or non-compliant benefits in kind.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. For the sake of clarity, we are trying to avoid abuse, of course, but we assume that only a very small minority of the profession is harmed by it. We also understand that nurse care requires more time because of the pandemic, because precautions need to be taken. In order to compensate for additional expenditure on protective equipment and lost income, fewer people may be visited, additional pseudocodes were provided, with so-called W values. Those pseudocodes may only be charged in a covid-related situation. Those pseudocodes cannot be used by any insured person, but this will not result in the total number of W values being exceeded on an annual basis. After all, it is generally seen that there is a decline in activity. The profession told us the same thing. The nurses involved in the cohort care also do not provide any other care on that day. However, they are reimbursed for a maximum of ten insured persons per day. This also ensures that the threshold is not exceeded. We assume that the nurses do not incur any financial damage during this covid period due to the application of the threshold. Accountability is also always possible. So much for my statement on the capacity of hospitals, among other things. Of course, there were a lot of questions about the testing strategy. I will summarise the answers relatively briefly rather than give a long explanation, which you have probably heard a few times. We've set up a task force on the inter-federal level. The task force is housed in the Commissariat, led by Professor Herman Goossens. The task force had to develop a test strategy for the entire period to come. It had to be taken into account that we are probably in difficulties for a long period of time, that there will be no vaccine for a long time and that good and effective testing and follow-up to tests are absolutely crucial. The progress of science creates many promising opportunities. That's part of the game. There are classic PCR tests, rapid antigen tests and LAMP PCR tests. There is also the possibility of breath tests and saliva tests. A lot of things are going to be possible. There is already a lot of speculation in the press about why saliva tests, antigen tests and so on are not yet widely used. However, we work in an inter-federal context. So communities actually have a great responsibility and basically the main responsibility for a testing strategy. However, we have made a huge effort federally, because we are building federally the platforms that provide a large part of the test capacity, in particular PCR test capacity. So the question is whether we can work out a coherent strategy for the three regions and communities together, in which it is clear which tests are used for whom, when exactly these tests are used, for example, after high risk contact or symptoms, how and by whom the tests are conducted, what are the protocols in this context? Then the question is how to connect the results obtained with the data collection, because if we take all kinds of tests and do not record the results, then we sail in one-two-three blind and end up in chaos. There are two important and difficult issues in this context. Firstly, for the analysis of saliva tests, the laboratories we need for the PCR tests should also be used. If we decide that we use a mass of saliva tests, it will weigh on the existing limited analytical capacity, which we need for PCR tests. So one cannot simply say that we have an additional test option with saliva tests, because these tests are in the same labs as the PCR tests for analysis. Secondly, last but not least, we must not be at risk. One should not think that one has a good test, if not. One may think that a particular type of test is a little less precise, but that it is useful in a particular context, but if one does not know exactly how precise that test is and if one does not know how well it is tested, then one takes incredible risks with public health. That is why in other countries there is a certain amount of temporisation with, for example, the use of rapid antigen tests on residents of residential care centres, because if one is not sure whether these tests are sensitive enough, then dramatic mistakes can be made. The whole must therefore be developed coherently and coherently, in cooperation between the federal government and the regions and the Communities, but at the same time I read this in the press, and I hear that everywhere in the field everyone wants to move forward with forms of tests that give rapid results, the rapid antigen tests. Everyone thinks it would be very interesting if we could do saliva tests and breath tests, but we have to make sure that it remains a coherent whole; otherwise we will end up in chaos and I must honestly say that I am a little worried about that. I hear the pressure and enthusiasm on the ground to do all kinds of tests, but if we don't pay attention, we end up in chaos very quickly. Then we end up with tests whose results we do not collect, with which we are nothing, and with tests that weigh on the same capacity, which only makes the problem of capacity worse. Let me emphasise the following very strongly: the PCR tests that are now being analyzed in the labs are tests of people with symptoms. It is a top priority to have a result within 24 hours, up to 48 hours. If we allow all kinds of other tests to take up the lab capacity, this priority task of accurate PCR tests that detect which people are infected with symptoms will no longer succeed. That is and will remain the priority. We must not allow this to be pushed away by all kinds of experiments with other types of tests, which weigh on the same lab capacity. So that's a tough one. Mr Herman Goossens and his task force are working on a note. I hope that tomorrow, at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health, we can have a good discussion on this with the ministers responsible, to see if we can agree on an approach in which we can be coherent, allow things to develop from the bottom up, but which do fit into a whole. To be honest, that's a big concern right now. We also have a complicated country, I don't have to tell you that. We want to take initiatives from all sides, and that is actually good, but it is all connected. We must therefore maintain coherence. We were asked what we know from the tracing and whether we know anything about superdispersors. It's a little annoying. With regard to Belgium, we do not really know who the superdistributors are and where they were. We also have insufficient uniform data on viral load during testing. There is nothing we can do about that. Nor is it true that when one has a high viral charge, one is automatically a superspreader. It's all relatively complicated. It's two different concepts. So I have to answer these questions by stressing that we do not know many things or do not know enough. Which brings me to the tracing. Tracing and quarantine are powers of the Länder. We have made a cooperation agreement so that we collect the data from the lab tests through a database at Sciensano and make them available to the Länder. There was an unfortunate incident yesterday, which we also immediately announced to the press. They had entered a wrong patch, with old data, which led the trackers to start calling people who were ill a long time ago and unfortunately also with relatives of the deceased. That was very painful. It was just a computer error. That is the result of that cooperation agreement. Data are collected federally and made available to the trackers. We do, contrary to what is thought, both the source detection and the contact detection. Source detection means that one goes to the source. They're going upriver. In case of contact detection one goes downstream. We both do. The scripts now clearly ask for whereabouts. Where have you been? That's the source search. I must disappoint you with the result. The majority of people say they don't know their whereabouts enough. One gets a number of stereotyped answers that one is not much with. The regions also cooperate with local authorities for this source search. That is very good that this has been decided. Basically, we do a source search alongside the contact research, but we should not be under any illusions about the precision with which we can do that. That is really not so easy, especially when people are so inundated with infected people. We absolutely need to reduce the number of infections. Then this can work better. Yeah, we're also doing cluster research. A scheme has been developed, together with the regions and Sciensano, to ensure that cluster research is carried out in a certain way. The regions must provide information in a schedule. Again, we are currently very flooded with problems. All attention must now be paid to ensuring that the work runs on the ground. This means that the kind of reporting required for that cluster research is not readily available. Basically, it's worked out that way. Sciensano is ready and wants to make scientific analyses and forecasts, but it is not easy when one is in a storm. There were also questions for more staff and the capacity to analyse the contamination data. Yeah, it's been done by the last government. The staff equipes for source research have been expanded, but it is not very simple. Someone asked what the legal responsibility of the GP is in assessing what a high risk contact is. I will give a very general answer to that. We assume that the general practitioners, as well-trained people, are also good family fathers and are therefore able to judge whether or not the contact someone has had is a risk contact. This brings me to the Coronalert app, which has been downloaded 1.6 million times, or one fifth of smartphone users. I won't explain what the app does. You know that. The app is safe and amazingly important. There is also a list of the iOS devices on which it works, namely on every iPhone that was put on the market after September 2014. We do study other possibilities, such as a small bluetooth device with a function similar to the Coronalert app. As far as quarantine is concerned, that's a well-known story in the meantime. There were questions about it, though. Why was it extended from seven to ten days? To be sure, if one doesn't test. You know that the instructions are very precise. I won't repeat it. Some members asked how the quarantine could be maintained. That is a question that we must ask the Länder, because it belongs to their powers, but it is easier to ask them than to answer them. Personally, I think maybe we should assume coaching the quarantine rather than sending the police. Maybe we should get help earlier to help people maintain quarantine. Explaining what quarantine means and what action is needed is perhaps more important than sending police officers and inspectors, because that is very difficult. There were a lot of questions about psychic well-being. Those questions are entirely justified. You know that we in the federal government have decided that an important budget is being charged to organize psychological support in association with the first line, i.e. with the general practitioners. There is still a need for consultation with the actors and the Länder on the precise roll-out, but the principle orientation is a model in which psychologists start working in the first line and can therefore also get continued by the general practitioners, so that people do not have to think for themselves that they should go to a psychologist. As a result of the discussion with the GP, they may find that they need to consult a psychologist and can also immediately find out which psychologist is available in that network. The idea of psychologists to engage in the first line is an important reinforcement, but also a stool of the first line. Federally, we have enough money to go up to 1,500 psychologists who, spread across Belgium, can be recruited in the first line. There are, but we still have to discuss with the Länder and with the actors exactly how they should be distributed. You know that we have also provided a small but not insignificant budget of EUR 11.7 million in the Hospital Budget Financial Resources (BFM) to specifically provide psychological support for healthcare staff in hospitals. Some questions also mentioned other aspects, such as well-being at work. I am afraid to say much about that, because that is the responsibility of my colleague, Mr Dermagne. There are also psychosocial managers at the FPS Health Department. Some Members are asking if we already know more about the number of suicides, a nasty, but very real subject. There is no record of this at federal level. That is not our competence and our task either. The psychiatric hospitals did, but couldn't sustain that under the circumstances. There is no hard evidence to say anything from the federal level about an evolution in the number of suicides. Together with colleagues from the Communities, we have set up a working group on mental health in the Inter-Ministerial Conference, in which we look at and discuss, among other things, the issues I have just mentioned. This working group has already made a number of recommendations on the problems of burn-out and well-being of staff in the care sector. In the framework of the IMC, the nine Health Ministers have already identified the issues in a specific working group on psychic well-being. I come to a sensitive point that was also addressed in the questions, in particular the deaths in residential care centres and whether we have stopped people in need of intensive care from being transferred to hospital because they would have reached a certain age. That is really not the case. There is absolutely no evidence, and I say that on the basis of what everyone in my administration who has looked at it has informed me, that residents of residential care centres would not have been hospitalized, whereas that admission could have improved their health status. The opposite is the case. For example, hospitals have kept residents of residential care centers in hospitals simply because they needed oxygen and it was less evident to give them that in the residential care centers. Associations of general practitioners and specialists have sent a letter to the residential care centres, which simply recalled the rules of good practice for a responsible palliative approach in situations where no improvement is expected from hospitalisation. This is not specifically about COOVID-19, although, unfortunately, COOVID-19 is one of the situations in which such considerations need to be made. However, it is a broader problem. These are directives that used to exist. It also asks for very precise statistics on who died of what in residential care centres. That's a tough one. There is a slight discrepancy between what we can regard as confirmed cases due to test results, confirmed COOVID-19 cases and suspected COOVID-19 cases. Our series on that aren't very old. They started on 22 June 2020. The data at the beginning of the crisis could hardly be linked to the number of COOVID-19 deaths. We are working on deaths in residential care centres for the first period of the crisis with estimates. Now we are getting more precise data. The disease hasn't gotten any less bad at all. We still do not have a fundamental solution. The good news, however, is that we have aspects of pathology better in mind. There are also more protective equipment and there is more test material, which has enabled us to make the residential care centres more resilient than they were in March-April 2020. Mr President, questions have been asked about people without papers. How can people without papers be tracked? I would like to pay tribute here to Doctors Without Borders and Doctors of the World, who have acted in a very meaningful way, to help people without papers and the most vulnerable people. For example, an isolation unit with 150 beds has been set up in Brussels. Supports are also offered to other centres. Doctors without Borders provide more than 100 people for COVID-19 projects in Belgium. We are talking about people without papers or the question was about people without papers. How can people without papers be involved in a regular procedure? That is, of course, almost a contradiction in terms and very difficult. Fortunately, however, there are organisations that take care of this. I notice there are some concerns about the general practitioners as well. It was asked whether it is possible for GP A to give advice on quarantine which is clearly different from that of GP B in the same case. We do not hold the hands of the general practitioners, we rely on their ability and insight. However, they are well informed of the procedures for testing, tracing and quarantine. You've probably already looked at it all, but the exact instructions are on Sciensano's website. It indicates what to do after a high-risk contact, when quarantine is needed and what exactly quarantine means. All this can be found on the website of Sciensano for professionals. Updates are also sent through the GP software. Furthermore, there are decided Facebook groups for doctors, medical syndicates and scientific associations who also do their bit. Then I come to the questions on vaccination against COOVID-19. The European Commission wants to create the largest possible portfolio of vaccines, and Belgium has fully supported this. 6 vaccines are currently included in this portfolio: Johnson & Johnson, Sanofi-GSK, CureVac, Moderna, BioNTech and Novavax. Also AstraZeneca joins. The fact that we are taking part in the European venture increases our chances of purchasing a certain quantity of vaccines, provided, of course, that these vaccines are authorised for the European market by the European Medicines Agency. This licence is important because it has to do with quality, efficiency and safety. The risk-benefit balance of a vaccine must be positive in order to be recognised, but the responsibility for the vaccine remains of course with the holding. Three contracts are negotiated by the European Commission, namely those with AstraZeneca, Sanofi-GSK and Johnson & Johnson. This is not always about the same story. The contract with AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson is subject to a mandatory purchase. If we step into it, they'll buy it. The same applies to our country. This is not the case for Sanofi-GSK. The contract with AstraZeneca provided 7.5 million doses, which will be delivered in a phased manner. The first deliveries are planned, if all goes according to plan, for the first trimester of 2021. However, the permit must be available. This permit depends on a number of results of the scientific work in this context. Johnson & Johnson's contract involves 5 million doses, which will also be delivered in stages. Questioners are concerned about side effects. Of course they need to be looked at. The assessment is carried out by the independent Data Safety Monitoring Board, the DSMB, as is quite common in clinical trials, especially when it comes to a medical product study that will reach a very large number of participants. As soon as the DSMB evaluation report is available, after the company has been able to look it through, that report will be delivered to the public authorities, on which the authorities decide whether or not to be safe. The fact that the vaccine can be placed on hold with possible side effects is simply a good practice in clinical trials, which also applies to all medicines. The fact that there is a possibility of putting the investigation on hold also proves that there are strict conditions. A concern in the questions is also whether there are people who do not want a vaccine. Yes, that is a new element in public health policy. According to Sciensano's fourth health survey, which took place between 24 September and 2 October, there is reason to worry about this. In that survey, 30,000 people expressed their opinion. According to the participants, vaccination is seen as the main means of preventing the spread of the virus. However, half of those questioned are not sure if they will have themselves vaccinated. Half say they will be vaccinated, a third say they will not be sure and 17% say they will not be vaccinated. However, in case of vaccination, the group must be sufficiently large, it does not necessarily have to be one hundred percent, but sufficient to obtain the herd immunity. That's a real worry. The point is that people are afraid of side effects. Younger people and women are the most reluctant. That's also a statement. So what are we supposed to do? We're discussing that in the Interfederal IKW Prevention. We will look at the recommendations of the High Health Council on how we should deal with this. What kind of awareness campaigns should be conducted? Someone wants to know if we want to impose vaccination, like polio. I can't answer that yet, because that's just part of the discussion in the IKW. What's the status of the organization? The organisation of the vaccination campaign is the responsibility of the Länder, but in the context of a pandemic, such as today, we set up a Task Force Vaccination in October at the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products, the FAGG. We are in this together with people from federal administrations and administrations of the Länder. We'll consult experts. The task force is supposed to really think about the practical organisation of the vaccination, based on a strategy defined by the High Health Council. Of course, all this must be validated by the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health. What's that about, for example? What are the risk groups? Since vaccines are only phased out, which groups should be treated first? Mr President, that brings me to the flu vaccination. I answered that question last week. I'm gonna have to bring you a little less good news about the stock. In the meantime, we have again made an overview of what is going on. Let me repeat the general data. The previous government ordered 2.9 million vaccines against the seasonal flu. That is clearly more than last year. Priority groups were identified last year. Target group 1 consists of A and B. The idea is to first vaccinate the target groups and in case of surplus, anyone who wishes to be vaccinated can be vaccinated. However, we will not be able to apply this ideal picture now. A lot has already been delivered. About half of the flu vaccines have now been delivered by pharmacists to patients and to occupational health services for the vaccination of target groups. The pharmacists say that the demand for these target groups has increased significantly compared to previous years. The FAGG monitored that and re-charted it a few days ago. The FAGG has advised that we would really reserve the available vaccines for the target groups. That advice was accepted by the Inter-Ministerial Conference last week. To put it negatively, normally a second phase would start on 15 November, in which everyone from the rest of the population could get that vaccine. We'll cancel it. We now want to use the vaccines optimally for the target groups. Someone who's very healthy is less at risk when the flu is out there. It is less likely to become seriously ill than, for example, someone aged 65 and over, or someone with an underlying chronic condition. The general precautionary measure in the framework of COVID-19 is therefore really important here. It means that we want to give priority to target group A in a first phase. These are vulnerable people, people at risk of complications, pregnant women, patients from six months of age who are suffering from underlying chronic diseases, people from 65 years of age, people in an institution, children between six months and 18 who are undergoing long-term aspirin therapy. These guidelines were given to the general practitioners. The pharmacists are also informed. The second group in the genuinely priority group A are people working in the health sector. The third group are persons living under the same roof as those at risk from the first group and children under the age of six months. Then there is the group B, people between 50 and 65 years of age who do not belong to those risk groups. We have asked the doctors and pharmacists to temporarily suspend vaccination for Group B. This way we are sure that group A will be served. We monitor that and then B comes. The phase in which the vaccine is for everyone, we canceled. There are some concerns or vaccination against flu would lead to increased risk of COVID-19. No, we don't have any indication of that. We shouldn't think that. Mr President, since the questions have been asked, I will answer them. There are specific questions about medicines. I'll just take all three. There are currently no clinical studies ongoing in Belgium with regard to the medicinal product Favipiravir. However, studies are ongoing in other European countries. Those well-designed placebo-controlled studies are still pending to assess the efficacy and safety of that medicinal product with respect to COVID-19. It is not the FAGG's competence to stimulate international studies. It is sometimes asked whether we cannot ensure that more international studies are carried out. The FAGG can't do that. However, since the beginning of the pandemic, the FAGG has been using an accelerated procedure to accelerate the approval of clinical studies on such medicinal products. The FAGG can also always be consulted by firms and research institutes to obtain scientific-technical advice on planned clinical trials. In short, Favipiravir is currently not authorised in Belgium and is not available. Then there's the cure Dificlir. Making Dificlir available or not was discussed in the Committee on Medicinal Products Meeting, the RIZIV Commission, on 13 October 2020. In the Committee's view, given the problem of resistance, care should be taken to make antibiotics more widely available. So there is general caution. We tend to exaggerate with antibiotics. We have to be careful with that. Dificlir's in the drug forfait. It's in the reimbursement system, but that does encourage the hospitals to be cautious. There's an incentive not to have that prescribed too much in hospitals. It is useful, because it can lead to a decrease in the number of nursing days. It is good in the current circumstances that people are less long in the hospital. The indication can be limited through the conditions of reimbursement. I can tell you that the services of the RIZIV will investigate the options for making Dificlir available outside the hospital. We're looking at that, but we can't anticipate that. Then there's Veklury, a medicine with the active ingredient remdesivir. At the beginning of October, the European Commission concluded a purchase agreement with the American pharmaceutical giant Gilead Sciences for 500,000 doses of Veklury. For the European Commission, this amounts to more than EUR 1 billion. It costs 2,100 euros per dose. So it's not a cheap story. Belgium purchased 12,382 doses of Veklury for the months of October and November on the basis of the Free Work Contract (FWC), a kind of common purchasing procedure. Exactly 3,000 were bought in October and 9,382 in November. Following possible purchases will be made through specific contracts under the current FC until March 2021. What we are going to buy will depend on the needs on the one hand and the quantities available on the other. This medicine is only present on the Belgian market thanks to the FWC negotiated by the European Commission, in which the price was negotiated for all 36 participating countries. That negotiation has led to a maximum number of guaranteed doses for six months and it will frustrate you. The European Commission has negotiated a confidentiality obligation with regard to the FC, so I cannot say anything about the price. It has been asked whether our country will submit a request to the European Commission to renegotiate the agreement, taking into account the results of all available clinical trials. This is a possibility that is not provided for in the current FC. I take a small step forward on the question of the purchase of this type of medicinal product, special procedures and confidentiality obligations. We need to think very carefully strategically about what we want to achieve with policy, but we are now, of course, working in existing procedures to provide the market with what is needed, and I will explain this to you. There were very understandable questions about the protective equipment. I think I can be reassuring about that. There are currently 11.019.184 aprons and 71.083.480 gloves in the federal stock. That stock is used to supply individual care providers in the triage centers, hospitals and other federal government institutions. At present, limited quantities of gloves and aprons are actually being purchased by hospitals. The demand for these resources is high and their cost is relatively high. We don't see any deficits. The international markets for that kind of protective material have actually recovered. Looks like we're good there. There are currently 152 million surgical masks and 39 million FFP2 and KN95 masks. There are still deliveries to be made. A number of deliveries are already in this count. No new orders have been placed. However, the FPS is preparing a public tender to conclude long-term contracts for surgical masks and FFP2 masks. As I said, we have 152 million surgical masks and 39 million FFP2 and KN95 masks. 160 million surgical masks are sufficient to meet peak consumption for eight months for the sectors for which the federal government is competent. That seems pretty good, doesn't it? 50 million FFP2 and KN95 masks are sufficient for a peak consumption of 15 months. This is for general hospitals and dentists. We're better now than we were before on this. For triage centres and hospitals, delivery is made online on request. For the care professions the collection is done at a distribution centre of the Red Cross, if no strategic stock has yet been received. Questions were also asked about communication campaigns. We're running information campaigns. These are organised by the National Crisis Centre, in close cooperation with the FPS Health and the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. The campaigns are intended to convey the most important messages to the widest possible audience. Since the beginning of the crisis, a call centre has also been established in the womb of the National Crisis Centre. The Länder have also set up a call centre in the framework of their task of testing and tracing in order to monitor high-risk contacts. The Länder want citizens' questions regarding testing policy and the priorities for response to be entrusted to the national call centre. The call centre of the National Crisis Centre should be accessible on weekends. That requires more resources. This is discussed between the two levels of policy. The funding for this is likely to be federally included. We are convinced that additional efforts are needed because this is also important for the stool of the general practitioners. The web information is available in 30 languages, also in deaf language and simple language. There are videos and icons. This information is promoted by cities, municipalities, doctors, hospitals, civil society associations and so on. Social media is also being deployed. To questions about the dates at Sciensano, I have a mixed answer. It was asked whether Sciensano had the age distribution of hospitalised patients per hospital and per municipality. I regret to say that our data are not exhaustive enough to make a correct assessment of this. Up to the level of the provinces we can provide this data, but an age distribution is probably not possible per municipality. This also applies to questions about the length of hospitalization by age group, by hospital and by municipality. That data can't be provided by Sciensano. The number of tests carried out per municipality per day is however available. Researchers get access to this after a data request that was approved between the two parties. This data is also available to the authorities at Epistat, indicating the number of cases and the positivity ratio in the last seven days per municipality. If one then makes a simple calculation, of course one also knows how many tests have been carried out. In other words, we can improve the provision of services. Sciensano is investigating how to make this data available even better. Any problems with eHealth? I'd almost say yes, of course. Once there is a problem with the components of the data processing, eHealth does not work optimally. That is why we have sought solutions called "business continuity" solutions in the jargon of those people. So one must be able to run the business, even if there is a problem in the components of the data processing. Dashboards are available on the eHealth portal on which the functioning of the sub-components is disclosed. It shall be monitored every 10 seconds. If a component doesn't work properly, it automatically switches to the business continuity. If this is not possible, the portal will indicate how the user can switch to the business continuity himself. There are also notifications via Twitter. Then I come to the questions about curfew. People want to know if it's illegal. No, we have decided to do so on the basis of legal and correct procedures. Obviously, it is not illegal. If that's what you think, you should go to court. I hope you won't do that because it's a waste of time. Of course, she's not illegal. People also want to know what the effect is. That's hard. One plus one is more than two. Curfew has its own goal of keeping people off the streets. However, a person who walks around at night alone is not a problem. It serves to maintain that people don't walk from one party to another at night. It is an enforcement measure and also serves to avoid collections of human beings. To know what the effect is, one has to take the whole and the coherence of the measures and then one comes up with an en-en-story. It will always be very difficult to know the effect of a particular measure. Personally, I find this interesting, but we cannot say that today. If we were to see a real impact on the number of infections in the next few days, we could say what happened 14 days ago. Then one can say that there has been a step with an effect. The step was, for example, closing down cafes and restaurants at national level. But there too it is not so easy, because there were earlier steps in the Brussels Region, with curfew and so on. So it's not so easy to say exactly what the impact of a particular element is. It's an en-and-story. Mr President, I shall return to my starting point. The en-and-story is that people just need to have as little contact as possible, no matter how horrible that sounds. That's what it's really about. I'm sorry I used Dutch. If there are any questions in French, I will do my best to answer them. I hope you're not going to rest the questions I've already tried to answer. But there will certainly be reactions. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u5	That's right, Minister. Thank you. You have by far exceeded your speaking time, but we are here to hear the answers to the questions. You spoke about additional regulations and you thanked the Chamber for some adjustments. We're at it again. Some of the Members have already seen the e-mail that we are holding a plenary and a committee meeting on Thursday, specifically on a legislative proposal on measures for the additional employment of staff in hospitals and the necessary diploma requirements. It will be a plenary session to be able to employ additional resources and staff in hospitals in this emergency situation. The plenary will be followed by a committee meeting and then a plenary session to approve it so that we can move forward in this area. Thank you, Minister, for all your answers. I think you have answered many questions, but probably not all. I now give the floor to Members to ask additional questions and to replicate the answers you have already given. I shall first address myself to the N-VA. You have eight minutes of speaking time to be divided among the various Members who take part in this sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u6	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the explanation. I have a few more questions. I will forward the questions I had already put to the committee secretariat. As for the federal testing platform bis, the KUL and the Ghent University are ready to start their lab, which was promised by the end of September. Is there a view of the test capacity that they can already guarantee and how long will they be able to guarantee it? In other words, is there also a view of the utensils, the reagents, pipettes, etc.? I've been told there was a problem finding suitable lab personnel. An exception would have been made so that profiles other than lab technologists could be recruited. What profiles are those? Does this exception apply to the other common clinical labs? I also wonder when we will be able to go back to that broader testing strategy. How many additional tests should be possible? What's a point there? You say that other countries envy our testing capacity, but I don't think they envy our contamination rates. We have a very high positivity ratio and we really have to get rid of it. We are now on average at 30%, in some provinces almost 50%, well above the alert threshold. I regret that these test criteria have had to be deviated from. It is also a missed chance that we did not use other labs like the Netherlands, which could have helped us to increase the test capacity. Has there been an analysis of the second wave? What went wrong? How will we arm ourselves against a possible next wave? What are the lessons we have learned now? We had promised ourselves that we would not do any more scaling-down of regular care and that we would not go to a lockdown again. Nevertheless, we are again in it. What have we learned from that? Do we have any figures on infections and deaths in the care providers? We owe it to them to register, follow up and reconnect correctly in this area, so that lessons can be learned from this too. Will we have enough staff for the high-oxygen care departments? After all, that is always the bottleneck. In what way will this possible shortage of staff be resolved? What is the impact of deferred care? Do we have an idea of the consequences yet? Are there, for example, people who are still waiting for care to be postponed at the first wave and who are now seeing their care postponed again? With regard to residential care centres, it is a fact that during the first wave a lot of people died in the residential care centres themselves. The death rate in residential care centres has also increased during the crisis. While in the beginning two out of six people died in the residential care centers, by the end of the first wave there were five out of six. Are more elderly people being transferred to hospitals or not? Finally, what about the doctors in training and the doctors-specialists in training? Are concessions provided for them to compensate them for the efforts they make and have made during the current and the first wave? What about the impact of using doctors-specialists in training on getting their degree? Will they still be able to meet the federal recognition criteria? What solutions are being developed in this context? I now give the floor to my colleague Yoleen Van Camp.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u7	Colleagues, if you refer to a question submitted, especially if it is technical, it might be good to mention the number of the question so that the Minister can look it up more easily.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u8	Mr President, Minister, my questions concern the care staff in these difficult circumstances. You have partly answered one question, in particular the question on the remuneration of sampling. You do not exclude that this will still be regulated by a nomenclature number. I'd still like to argue in favour of that. You said that the representatives themselves did not necessarily ask this. That is rather weedy as they are not part of the consortia. However, I would like to ask you to consider whether this can be put right for other professions, for example for the neutral home care system, which is not connected and which is still a party asking for it. With regard to the ceiling and the controls, I have heard you clearly say that you will be flexible in dealing with them in these times. That seems to me to be a very good thing. I had asked two other questions that you didn't answer directly, or I must have missed it. Firstly, if nurses or care staff work in a department where corona breaks out, they must be at home for five days. This is either without pay or if they apply for temporary unemployment, at 60% of their wages. What solution do you see for that? It is a problem that is very common today. Secondly, you yourself said that different transfers are taking place. We have indeed laid the necessary legal basis for this in Parliament. However, this often raises problems of comprehensibility when it is, for example, cross-border language. Are you aware of that? What solution can you offer, whether in cooperation with the Länder or not, and I am thinking, for example, of interpreters? You have partly mentioned the numbers. Specifically with regard to cross-language transfers, I do not think I have heard the figures. Can you give it to me, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u9	Mr President, Minister, thank you very much. I'll start with the test strategy. I really don't agree with the fact that asymptomatic patients aren't being tested anymore. I still don't understand how you didn't go there. Last week we all made sure that more sampling could happen. How is it, Minister, that you will only allow it to happen in the centres? There was today communication from the pharmacists that this can happen perfectly in the oficina, close to the patient, without any threshold. Why isn't that considered? Also on the modification of the test strategy. My colleague just referred to it. During that period, the Netherlands made the decision to use laboratories that are also present in our country. Have you been in contact with your Dutch colleague about this? Were they talking about that, yes or no? You mentioned the chaos, and I understand you: it needs to be recorded, it needs to be taken down in a structured manner. The opinion of the RAG on 19 August was that the framework should be developed. It could've been quicker. We must now make every effort to ensure that our patients are effectively screened. You mentioned testing the travelers and the self assessment tool. Citizenism, Minister. For me, it's a bit of a throwback to the crocus vacation. Today's autumn vacation. From travellers entering our country, the temperature is measured, but they are addressed on a voluntary basis. Why didn't we foresee that there was rapid testing capacity, to screen patients when they entered the country anyway? Then the oxygen. I think it is very good that we are more committed to midcare and providing oxygen, but will we have enough? Is there enough supplies? Are you sure about that? I have also heard that diagnostic material for influenza testing would be missing. Do you have any eyes on that? Can you explain that to me? Then the vaccines, Minister. I did not receive an answer to the question of whether immunity clauses are also provided for Johnson & Johnson and for Sanofi. This concerns immunity to side effects which are provided for in the contract with AstraZeneca. We have already discussed the issue of influenza vaccination last time, and you are now saying it yourself: we are too short. You say that 10% more vaccines were ordered, but our neighbouring countries ordered 30% more. So there is a gap. There is also no supportive regulation that requires us to vaccinate risk groups A. On the other hand, how many vaccines are left with the occupational health services on the one hand? On the other hand, has it also been considered that in patients of high age, vaccines have less effect? If a 50-year-old who hasn't been vaccinated comes to his 90-year-old, that could be a problem. Has that been taken into account? We absolutely need to learn lessons from the flu vaccination and make sure that we do not make the same mistakes with the covid vaccine. Minister, I am also very concerned about psychological concerns and their continuity. I have been told that there are withdrawal stops for psychiatric wards in certain hospitals. That is a very difficult point today, because we need to ensure that we are able to effectively treat patients in psychiatric wards, patients with very severe suicidal tendencies. The fact that our psychiatric centres do not keep records of causes of death while there is no transfer of suicide rates between the hospitals and the Flemish centres strengthens me much more in the idea that we should go to one Flemish public health. After all, this is a crucial fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u10	Mr President, I would like to make a practical point. If people actually ask questions it would be good if they also refer to the number of their question, because I have more than 500 pages in front of me. There are questions which are interesting, but which I do not have an answer to and there are questions to which I can give a general response, but if one has put a precise question and would like to have an answer to them in the thick piece of paper that was delivered to me an hour ago, then I can look for it. It would be easier to give the number of the question right away.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, please state the number of your question. The Minister has spoken for a very long time, and I will therefore also pay less attention to Members' speaking time. Of course, the agreed speaking time remains a target figure. Colleagues of the N-VA, would you like to refer to certain questions that have been tabled? If you still want answers from the Minister to a specific specific question, you can now give the number.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u12	Mr President, can we put those numbers in the chat room? I had 30 questions and my colleague had more than 20. Of course we don't know those songs from outside either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u13	Okay, you can put them in the chat.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u14	Mr President, Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for the accuracy of your answers. As far as I'm concerned, I got the answers to all my questions. However, I would like to return to the question of the availability of pharmacists to which Mrs Kathleen Depoorter referred. Pharmacists are ready to participate in testing and even vaccination. These front-line actors have come into contact with you on several occasions. As human resources will be lacking and as you yourself have said, it is a marathon – so it will take a long time and a long time on the distance – it is really important to involve all those who are available and of good will. I now look forward to Mr Goossens' much-anticipated strategy, which we can comment on when we can get to know of it. I hope that it will be submitted to us very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u15	Mr President, Minister, I thank you for your availability, for the clarity of your answers and for the exercise you have given yourself, which is not simple, especially in the moments we are going through. However, I would like some more information. I am referring here to my question No 55010361C on the barometer, which we will really need in the future. Last week, you mentioned the emergencies, and therefore the impossibility of finalizing this barometer. But citizens need opportunities. They need a carrot that makes them want to respect the measures they are asked to apply. This carrot is the barometer that will tell them what the prospect is for tomorrow, if they behave well, for the day after tomorrow, etc. Minister, where are we in this barometer? When can we hope to see its implementation? I come to my question no. 55009954C, which concerns the nursing staff, and more specifically the shortage of this staff in all hospitals, especially in the hospitals in Liège that you have visited recently. The army also came as a reinforcement to the Bois Hospitaller Centre of the Abbey. What are the short-term practical solutions to strengthen caregivers? As you said, although we have beds in hospitals, if we don't have staff around these beds, we won't have medical assistance to meet the needs. I now turn to my question No 55010468C. As early as March and for several months, the nursing staff was applauded. They were superheroes. Today, some complain by saying: "We are no longer superheroes, on the contrary, we have to face the aggressiveness of some towards us." That is obviously not acceptable, minister. Attacks on caregivers are unacceptable. How can we stem this phenomenon and stop these aggressive behaviors? Are you considering prevention, support and information initiatives to make this important role of savior for our saviors? My question no 55010079C concerns mental health. You mentioned it briefly. In concrete terms, some professionals suggest that you use videoconferencing and a telephone link in case of new confinement, in particular to follow up on out-of-service caregivers. What do you think? What do you also think about the strengthening of mobile mental health intervention teams? I give the floor to my colleague, Mrs Zanchetta.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u16	Mr President, Minister, thank you. I'm sorry about the translator; I have a problem adapting my helmet. I can't find the numbers of the questions either, but I'll be brief. My intervention will involve testing. I have noted the importance of the thoughtful testing strategy with caution as a master word to avoid organizing or orchestrating, as you said, minister, chaos. We hope that this strategy will be diversified. As we know, pharmacists have indicated that they are available as their French colleagues to perform antigenic tests. It is a technique which is certainly not miraculous but which would allow to focus on asymptomatic people. Even if this is not a miracle solution, this proposal deserves to be analysed in the context of the cross-sectional testing strategy. On the other hand, I would like to know more about vaccination. I understand that this is on track even though the date of arrival of the vaccine on the market is still uncertain. Minister, I would like to know a little more about the marketing and effectiveness of the vaccine developed by Pfeizer. This vaccine could be ready, as we have heard, before those of the groups you have mentioned at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u17	Mr President, Mrs Zanchetta referred to questions. 55010219 and 55010293. I shall pass the floor to Mr Prévot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u18	Mr President, Minister, first of all, thank you for your many answers. Earlier, you signed a document with us, almost live, on the financing of hospitals. As a little wink, I will tell you that this is very good news, but we need to see more clearly than ever about the advances made and the prospects for the future. Don't look for my questions. You answered that. Maybe I have one or the other thought. I asked about inter-hospital transport. You answered that. You confirm to us that there will be no additional costs for patients who should use these inter-hospital transports, whether from one site to another, through several provinces, sometimes linguistic regions, or even a transfer to other countries, such as Germany. I had also asked a question about the strategic stock of masks, but this is rather a reflection on the vigilance you need to exercise in order to avoid a shortage, as was the case in the first wave. Always keep an eye on this strategic stock to allow these women and men to be properly equipped, unlike what happened during the first wave. In fact, many doctors tell us that they have not received any equipment since last July. But they're in great need of it. How can they request this material, under what conditions and at what frequency? I thank you, in any case, for your answers, and I wish you every courage in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u19	Mr President, Minister, you answered some of our questions in a very specific way, but in some other cases your answer was a little more woolly. However, I would like to express my thanks for the very clear answers to my questions. I would remind you that the Prime Minister announced a doubling of testing capacity very recently by the end of October. A few moments later, he saw himself implicitly flogged back by virologist Steven Van Gucht with the announcement that the test capacity was almost at its maximum. Then the government, with you among others, suddenly came up with a new test strategy, with only people with clear symptoms being tested. Honestly, that evoked the ghost image of the mouth mask saga, trying to adapt reality to communication, if I may put it that way. To my question about testing after a foreign journey, you answer that whoever returns must do a self-evaluation and no longer be tested to avoid overloading the system. Those who want to be tested after return must pay for it themselves. I find that a somewhat strange answer, because regardless of who pays the test, the tax on the labs seems the same, but that may be up to me. The question also remains open as to what should happen to someone travelling to a country requiring a negative covid test. Does that person have to pay for the covid test himself? With regard to the rapid tests, I would like to hear what tests you are looking into. I myself mention Breathomix's bladder test. What do you see as a possible net increase in test capacity? I refer to my question No. 55009839. With regard to vaccination, you make the same analysis as I do in the question and you explain the principle well. What will you do about the suspicion? You say that you are discussing it and that there may be awareness campaigns. I would have liked to have been explained when and how you will do that. I refer to my question No. 55010000. With regard to the security of our care and hospitals against cybercrime, I stayed a little hungry. You do not have to answer the statistical questions now, because that question was actually intended as a written question, which was accidentally tabled as an oral question. Can you explain what concrete security against cybercrime can look like? Cyber attacks are now about the last thing we can use in our care. I refer to question No. 55010517. The same applies to my question on diagnoses, namely Question No 5, by Mr Beazley, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 55009852C. Finally, Minister, you are talking about a harmonised approach. However, communication has been limp in this country over the past few years. I hope she doesn't become symptomatic and the government doesn't unpack with a PowerPoint presentation. I do not need to draw a picture that has led to such a presentation in the past. Let me give you an example of limp communication, which may not be your fault. Allow me, however, to take advantage of your kindness by asking an additional question that has literally walked in on me. On 1 November 2020, a number of self-employed animal trimmers questioned whether they were allowed to open or close their business. Let me outline to you the saga with an overview of the answers received from those concerned. On 1 November 2020, Minister Clarinval himself declared that the case should be closed, the trade association stated that the case could be opened and the municipality of Diksmuide stated that the case should be closed. Minister Weyts stated that the case could be opened; Gaia stated that the case should be closed and the FPS Economy announced that the case could be opened. The next day, the town of Merchtem announced that the case should be closed. Infocoronavirus informs in an e-mail that the case may open. Infocoronavirus asks again in its questions and answers whether Q&A should close the case. That's where they're back... saying that the case can be opened if security measures are taken. According to Unizo Limburg, the case must be closed, but states in his questions and answers that the case may open. Unizo National says he doesn't know in an e-mail. Unizo once again replied through Messenger that the case should be closed. Minister Clarinval reports through Messenger that the case may be opened subject to security measures. The same minister says via Messenger later that day that the case should be closed. The Crisis Center says the case should be closed. The FPS Economy states at 11:45 p.m. on 2 November 2020 that they do not know, and then at 13:51 p.m., they tell someone to close their case. I have not yet incorporated too many contradictory messages into my already impressive overview of the many contradictory messages from our friends in the media. In practical terms, I have the following questions, although I know that, strictly speaking, it is not your competence. You are, however, almost the only minister available to me at the moment. I hope that you will be able to tell the people concerned whether or not their case should remain open. It may sound silly, but a lot of self-employed people are in the same unclear situation. Can animal trimmers keep their business open or not? Now that we are working here, I am literally getting a message through Messenger at the moment when we are talking about whether or not associations that are organizing a take-away dinner should organize it. Minister, I realise and repeat that it is not your core business. I hope, however, that you appreciate that I am asking the question so that you can give a clear answer. I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The measures for the autumn vacation raise questions for me. You say you won't test returning travellers. That reminds me of the crocus vacation. The influx is probably not gonna be that big right now. I hope that you will change your opinion and that you will test the returning travellers. I hope we don't make the same mistakes we made during the crocus holiday. I hope that you will discuss this with the experts so that we do not make the same mistakes. I have not heard your opinion on the self-tests that are coming on the market. Those are tests that people can do at home and that don't require a lab. That could possibly be an enlightenment. If you admit that there is a problem with the flu vaccine, please adorn it, but unfortunately it is too late again. Pharmacists and doctors warned already in the summer that there would be a problem in the autumn, but apparently there were no listeners to people who could know, to people in the field, as you say so beautifully. As a result, there are now waiting lists and chronically ill people, who really need the vaccine, may not get it. That's too bad. It is very distressing that the problem has not been resolved before and that the people who know it have not been listened to. I didn't get an answer to my question about the sample labs. Why can the Netherlands use sample laboratories when we are short? What capacity are we talking about? Since when does the Netherlands have recourse to such labs? I also did not get an answer to my question about CovidCare@Home, question No. 55010399C. Nor did you say anything about the letter from the European Commission and its guidelines on the vaccine strategy, my question No. 55010474C. You have said that you still need to look at the vaccine strategy and that priority groups will be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u21	Mr Minister, I have heard your presentation and thank you for the clarifications you have given us. The area is obviously vast. My question no. 550010498C is about the tests, about which you yourself asked several questions, without necessarily providing answers: what test for a group, when, for whom, how, how to frame the protocol, what of the data collection, etc.- Is that what you're saying? These are obviously very interesting questions. For my part, it seems to me essential to define a truly coherent test strategy. That is, moreover, the raison d'être of the task force. Sometimes I wonder what the strategy really is? I understand that the best thing is the PCR nasopharyngeal test. There is no doubt that this is the most reliable and sophisticated test. However, there is some congestion in the laboratories, because not all the necessary machines are yet available. Of course, the salivary test also follows the path of the PCR, but it does not solve the problem of congestion. I understand that. However, nasopharyngeal sampling does not seem to me to be very appropriate for children under 12 years of age, as the ENTs find that it causes damage in them. For this reason, the salivary test seems to me to be of real interest: it saves a lot of staff, reducing the risk of contamination. In short, it offers a whole range of advantages, even if its reliability is less. The High Authority in France has defined a decisive strategy when it can be used. In my view, we should opt for such a decision tree for the various techniques, which include PCR nasopharyngeal test, PCR salivary test and rapid nasopharyngeal antigenic test. The current problem is that of the delay between the day of the test and the day of the result, as you yourself indicated. As long as this deadline remains as long as it is today, tracing will not work well. That is why this deadline must be shortened. Pharmacists offer their help with the second generation antigenic test, which appears to be more reliable in view of the progress made. I believe that this offer should not be rejected and that consideration should be given to the role of antigenic testing in the overall strategy. The overall strategy is not to focus everything around the nasopharyngeal test, antigenic test or salivary test. I think we need a decision tree to see how to place collective tests, for example. The salivary test can sometimes combine the saliva of a group into the same test. This allows you to perform a single PCR test to collect the saliva of five, ten, or even twenty people to see if a group requires more specific testing or not. A strategy must be put in place. For the moment, honestly, I am still hungry for the strategy developed by the task force in this area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u22	Minister, thank you for that clarification. I refer to my questions in your request for written answers for the Coronalert application, intensive care management, hospital staff, long-term patient care, general practitioner overload, reagent supply and laboratory staff, pooling method, wastewater monitoring and the legality of ministerial orders, as well as my questions regarding medical imaging technologists who are also at the front. I'd like to ask you about three things. I can tell you from the outset that many of our fellow citizens are wondering whether we are sufficiently prepared for this second wave. The questioning is huge on the support of staff in our hospitals, the place in intensive care, the capacity in laboratories, the capacity of oxygen bottles at home. On several points, we are experiencing the same difficulties. On several points, we have the impression of a delay. In concrete terms, my three questions relate to the testing strategy, the intermediate reception facilities and the work of home nurses. On the testing strategy, you say that in comparison with other countries, we are well located. However, the changes made have changed the overall organization of our population, from family to work. You have just told us that this was not the ideal, which is true. In addition, making such a decision on October 19 and then waiting ten days to know the priority occupational groups raises questions. Five days ago, for example, this was not yet the case for police officers, firefighters, close caregivers, school professionals and other key sectors. Ten days is a great deal, given the wave that our hospitals are going through.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u23	May I interrupt, ma'am? I don't understand. What time frame are you talking about when you mention these ten days?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u24	I'm talking about the deadlines for getting to know the priority professionals. Ten days, it's huge in view of the wave our hospitals are going through. So why so much time? What is the consultation carried out by the interdepartmental conference before these decisions are taken? Another element on testing is antigen testing. I have tabled three questions on this subject, as well as on your predecessor. I also put forward the proposal to carry out these tests in our official pharmacies on a voluntary basis. These tests do not affect the capacity of laboratories and PCRs. I hear your concern and your caution. But why do you look so slow? Has the Task Force sent you a recent note? What amendments to the texts are already planned to move forward? Why is this done in our French neighbours and in Switzerland but not in Belgium? Many experts and health professionals say that the new generation of these tests has a sensitivity of between 75 and 95%. Let's imagine that half of the pharmacists in our country decide to run 20 tests a day. This means at least one million tests performed over a month of time. Why not buy these test kits in large quantities now and thus not risk facing a shortage? I didn't hear you clearly on this lead. On capacity, I will mention three elements. The first is the distribution plan. How does it work today? We're talking about 720 transfers made. You finally tell us 550 transfers. Urgent arrangements had to be made last Thursday. So you confirm that now the distribution is going right. The second element is military deployment, such as in Seraing. How is it decided? How is such a structure decided? Who requests it and with whom? The third element is the intermediate reception facilities, which you call transit centres for patients who have been hospitalized. Months ago, your predecessor asked us, as mayors, to provide places that could potentially accommodate sick people. What is the status of this initiative? Is there a cadastre of these places today? By whom is it managed? How is it used? Finally, on home care work, it is clear that general practitioners are overwhelmed. You said it. Most already spend a lot of time every day checking the evolution of official measures. Home-based nurses are doing just as important a job again. Exactly, at this level, could you specify the temporary INAMI pseudo-codes? I am thinking, for example, of a particular service of follow-up by nurses on the health parameters of patients tested positive and left at home. Do these INAMI pseudo-codes already allow nurses to perform these specific medical follow-up care?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u25	Mr President, I have asked a number of questions, and the Minister has done a good job answering a lot of questions, for which I am grateful. I still have some specific, concrete questions, of which I will write down the numbers in the chat. Maybe you can answer it this way. You have not gone into the stock of medicines needed for COVID-19 patients. I am thinking of propofol, valium and morphine. During the first wave, we learned that a lot of hospitals were short on those drugs. Are our supplies large enough for a second wave? You also talked about the testing. What about the material over there? A colleague has already mentioned this. Do we have enough reagents and wipers to defy the second wave? I have already asked a question about the testing strategy in plenary, as you know. It's a shame we're not testing asymptomatic patients anymore. I understand that certain decisions need to be made, but I hope that we can broaden the testing strategy. We wanted to strive for a test capacity of 90,000. If we can get that, we can ease the guidelines for patients and citizens and hopefully make them still able to be tested, and so we can protect each other a little bit better. A colleague mentioned self-tests that would come on the market. I do have a different opinion on this from my colleague. During the first wave we took a KB with a ban on self-testing, because we do not want to give the citizens a false sense of security. I call for that to be re-elected. The tests must be carried out by professionals and only labs can give us the results. It can't be a test we can just run at home without a hundred percent guarantee. I also want to talk about the equipment in hospitals. I am thinking, for example, of ventilators. Do we have any idea whether all hospitals have sufficient equipment? Is there any possibility of a dispersal plan being considered? At provincial level, we see about the same level of contamination, but hopefully we come at a stage where some provinces are relieved. Will provinces other than hospitals be able to help where necessary, including equipment? We also discussed the Passenger Location Form today. We are indeed asking passengers coming from another country to fill that out. In my opinion, this is not mandatory enough. A lot of passengers are negligent in that or even do not do it at all. Can we take more binding measures in this regard? It is really important to guard our borders in this way, just as other countries do by asking people to take a negative test before departure. We are not doing that yet, and I would like you to put this on the table at ministerial level in order to protect our citizens a little more. I had one more question about the staff shortage and the staff loss. Is there a central database in which you can see all the hospitals in our country and the staff failures there, to ensure that we can also provide the hospitals that need more support?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I think I have received an answer to most of the questions, except for two. My first question, No. 55009808C, is about finding scientists that the COVID-19 virus can cause not only loss of taste and sense of smell, but also hearing problems in some people. A number of patients would suffer from tinnitus after they were discharged from the hospital. I would like to know if you have any knowledge of patients in our country who have been diagnosed with hearing problems and if this is being followed up. If not, do you think it is necessary to investigate this further? My second question, No. 55010519C concerns compulsory training of general practitioners in times of corona. Of course, we think it is important for doctors to be constantly trained and kept up to date with developments in medicine, so that the quality of care is maintained. During times of corona, however, doctors take on a lot of tasks that fall outside their normal duties. As a result, compulsory training is currently too burdensome for many doctors. I understand that the dentists are aware of this problem and that a number of measures have already been taken in the meantime to reduce the pressure of these training courses. Can you check whether something similar can be set up for general practitioners, so that the burden on them is reduced? There is one more issue on which I did not put a question, but where I would like to join many colleagues and myself, in particular the psychological effects of these new stricter measures. It's a legitimate concern. The consequences are no less. We can all see now that a lot of people are really having a hard time with all these measures. I am referring above all to the psychological effect of this. I haven't heard anything about the problem of alcohol addiction. I would like to draw your attention to that. It has taken me some trouble to find the answer, but I understand that, according to the current directives, the Alcoholics Anonymous should not physically meet unless outside and with a maximum of four people. I agree that there are, of course, digital alternatives. However, I have heard from people who are members of the AA that the effects are not the same. They think the physical meetings are really important. I would therefore like to ask whether, for this group, and perhaps for other self-help groups, no solution can be worked out so that they can meet physically. Of course, all the hygiene measures in force must be taken into account. I do not expect an immediate response to this. I have not tabled the question, as I said. I would like to ask you whether you can consider whether you can take certain initiatives there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u27	Thank you very much, Minister, for your very comprehensive presentation. He's already cleared up a lot for me. In my question No. 55010510C there are a few further questions that I would like to bring to your attention. I hope you can answer that. That question concerns Mrs von der Leyen of the European Commission. It has called again for the coordination of data, testing, rules, vaccination and so on. One of the things I asked about this is the prioritisation of vaccines. That's what you've been talking about. You indicate that a FAGG task force has been set up in this area. Could this FAGG task force also examine whether they can respond to Mrs von der Leyen's call for European alignment of the target groups for national vaccination? The European platform on which national Corona apps can connect is used by only three countries: Ireland, Germany and Italy. Will Belgium also agree to this? Finally, I should like to express my support for what Mrs Farih has just said. I have already pointed out that there is a real problem with the enforcement of the rules when entering our country. I know some examples firsthand. I believe that additional or more stringent measures should be taken there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u28	Minister, thank you. As you have dealt with a number of issues, I will not go back to my questions. Instead, I will plead with you in favour of the ground and the strategy to combat the virus. The first aspect I want to address is support for caregivers. I already spoke to you about this last week in plenary. For those at the front, clear measures can and must be taken both financially, taking into account the announcements already made, and in the form of arm reinforcement. Indeed, the rate of absenteeism is higher for this second wave than it was for the first. Given the likely length of the crisis and the extension of intensive care as well as intermediate care, we will need additional arms. That is why I would like to reiterate my proposal to be able to appeal to health care workers who do not work in health care services and who could be exempted from their current professional activity by virtue of a crisis status. In this way, we could bring health workers and nurses back to hospitals and nursing homes, or even to the front line. In short, it is necessary to go further. Secondly, a new budget would be provided for the second wave. May I insist that it should not be modelled on the model used in the first wave, i.e. recoverable advances, which are all factors of instability in hospitals? On the other hand, for the testing strategy, we are still thinking about its consistency, whereas this should have been undertaken this summer, and while countries and cities decide to organise a generalized testing by isolating all positive cases. You stress the need to ensure consistency. I fully agree with you, even if it should have been done for a long time. Otherwise, you say, we will orchestrate chaos. However, Belgium is already moving forward in dispersed order. In fact, the Regions do not order the same type of test to complete the PCR by nasopharyngeal swab. Moreover, if – as is the case today – we do not test asymptomatics and clusters, we will go straight into the wall. In addition, it amounts to taking a much higher and more serious risk than doing a test that is not close to 100% effective. The ideal scenario would be a test with the highest possible sensitivity and specificity, but also with an extremely wide capacity, which we do not have today for various reasons. Among other things, laboratories are a major limiting factor because the machines that are lacking should have arrived for a long time. Tergiversing by not defining the testing strategy is, in my opinion, an important mistake. I say it again for asymptomatics. In fact, the problem is not so much to do the test or not, it's to do the test so that people are isolated. And today, I fear that isolation is more than relative. If we do not test, if we do not accompany to ensure effective isolation, even to remind people, to find practical solutions to help them, especially when three generations live under the same roof, the contamination continues. Without transition, I now come to the situation in the rest homes. Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the virus is again at risk of galloping in nursing homes. Indeed, the reality is that even in nursing homes where there are positive cases, there is no possibility or agreement to test all staff. This is how we passively expect small clusters to develop and be much more serious to test completely. Of course, this is not right! Minister, you seemed to me to be more sensitive than other ministers on this issue. Therefore, may I ask you to insist at the interministerial conference tomorrow with your colleagues from the different regions that testing be really available as soon as positive cases are found in nursing homes? This will prevent clusters from being catastrophic and absolutely out of control. You know the extreme fragility of elderly people in nursing homes. Still regarding nursing homes, I would like to tell you that I do not understand very well why we have not yet advanced in the strategy with serological tests. Of course, there are PCR tests, self-salivation with PCR and antigenic tests; but there are also serological tests. These could be used in nursing homes, in particular to avoid retesting people who are already immune and to allow them to have a slightly less restricted life. I still have two important points to make, Mr President. The first concerns oxygen. Minister, we face major difficulties on the ground both in some rest homes and in the home to have bonbons and oxyconcentrators sufficient for those who need them. A person who desaturates and does not have oxygen available at home has only the option of hospitalization if he does not want to find himself in a situation – I dare the word – untenable. The companies say there was a lack of reaction from the authorities during the summer, which I regret. But beyond regret, effective solutions must be found to ensure the supply of oxygen to patients in need at home and in nursing homes. As far as the flu vaccine is concerned, I think we can say that we have not ordered enough. It is a shame not to be able to cover people over the age of 50 now. The Supreme Council of Health had clearly considered this to be an indication. Is there no possibility of examining complementary capabilities either with the companies that produce the vaccine or with other countries? Indeed, as I told you two weeks ago, many countries ordered more massively than Belgium. Finally, I would like to ask you to open a new field because it is time to anticipate the next steps. In my view, this second wave was not properly anticipated when we had the scientific elements, the experts and the models of the countries that had better controlled the situation in the first wave. So we end up with a second catastrophic wave and a world record. So now we need to anticipate the future, and to do so, we need to get to it today. There's the testing strategy. I think we also need to completely reshape the tracing process to make it much more efficient and faster, not to mention the isolation aspect. We need to figure out how to accompany the isolation of people in a very close way so that it is actually achieved when we emerge from the current peak, which will make it possible to control the virus completely and avoid the scenario we know today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u29	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the services of the House for making this important meeting possible, as well as the Minister for his answers, even if they bring with them additional questions. As far as testing is concerned, I mean that our capacity is very high compared to that of the other European states and that we intend to increase it to 110 000 tests per day. How will we be able to achieve this new testing capability, knowing that the capacity of 80,000 tests per day has not yet been reached and that if we do so today, it is because we have excluded asymptomatics. I would also like to know whether we have enough swabs, reagents, but also machines and technologists in the laboratories to get the results within 24 hours, because that is what really determines the effectiveness of a testing strategy. I would like to ask myself, like some of my colleagues, whether the rapid tests are useful or not. France and Switzerland understood this by mobilising pharmacists. The Czech Republic carried out a major testing campaign last weekend by testing the entire population. We're talking about 5 million people. Why not in Belgium? I can understand your skepticism with regard to the reliability of the tests. You're saying there's a risk to the use of these tests. I think that this risk should be balanced against another risk that we have taken by excluding asymptomatics from these tests, namely between 30 and 50% of people who are carriers of the virus and who are now in nature, unless they respect isolation. But I wonder if we now have statistics on the asymptomatic people who have to stay at home and who have not been tested. Was it possible to ensure that they complied with this segregation directive and, if so, in what proportion? In addition, the reliability of these tests has improved significantly over the past week. So much so that these tests are now recommended by the European authorities, but also more recently by the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium. Moreover, these rapid tests do not involve laboratories, machines and technologists, which we lack today. Moreover, according to many experts, today we are in such a serious and urgent situation that we must mobilise all the tools at our disposal, including these famous tests. I now come back to the lack of oxygen to treat patients. You've had some reassuring comments, or they're in any case reassuring, explaining that specific units were going to be created. Still, beside this, we still lack bonbons and oxyconcentrators. Even though the Belgian Federation of the Medical Technology Industry had already pulled the alarm bell during the first wave. There was already a shortage at this level in the first wave. So I wonder what steps have been taken by your predecessor and by yourself today to build up a strategic stock of machines. You are announcing today that the devices will be purchased to be made available to hospitals. When will they actually be available? There is an expectation between announcing a purchase and making the equipment available in practice. Are you going to work with the Regions, given the cruel lack of these machines in nursing and nursing homes at home? There is a real urgency in this matter. I also wanted to raise the issue of vaccines with you. For once, I think you've been precipitating. When I compare with your predecessor, we lacked anticipation of many subjects. Even if you don't miss it, there are other questions. Who will pay for these orders? I know that discussions are under way between the federal and federal levels. What is our vaccination strategy in terms of the transport of stocks and distribution of these vaccines? Who will be able to vaccinate and on what criteria will the doses be distributed? What is our outreach strategy? I hear a task force is thinking about it. That's very good, but I think it's right now that the public needs to be made aware of the usefulness of this vaccine. We should not wait for the effects of this anti-vaccine movement to be able to really work and raise public awareness, even if we can understand the reluctance to see possible side effects. There are other questions to which I have not received an answer. This is in particular the question No 55010082C concerning nursing staff who continue to work while they are contaminated. There is also question no. 55009742 on the breakdown that I tabled more than two weeks ago. Since the submission of this question, a study by the University of Colorado on aerosol infection has been relayed by the newspaper El País This study explains that although people in the same room wear the mask, the risk of contamination remains, but it is reduced if the room is ventilated and the duration of the meeting is shortened. Despite this, ventilation is still not repeated in the barrier gestures relayed on the website infocoronavirus.be. However, this is an element that must be included among the essential barriers, especially when isolated people are allowed – and this is only normal – to receive visits. Since a minimum number of social contacts are still allowed, it is necessary to ensure that these meetings can take place in the best possible conditions by advising in particular the breakdown which is an important element.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u30	Finally, Minister, I will put four questions on behalf of the PVDA Group. A first question concerns Veklury or remdesivir. You have already spoken about this in connection with Question No 5, by Mr Beazley, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 550010308C by Mr Sofie Merckx, but you did not answer all the sub-questions. You said that Veklury costs EUR 2,100 per dose, but I would like to point out that the real production price is estimated at EUR 5-6. There is a problem with the confidentiality clauses, which you yourself have said. Our question was, therefore, whether, on behalf of our country, you will work for full transparency on pricing and price negotiations, at least in the future, between the European Commission, or possibly yourself for other medicines, and Gilead, on the medicine Veklury. Moreover, your party has always advocated greater transparency in this area. Another point that you did not mention is that two weeks before the European Commission concluded the contract with Gilead, Gilead was informed by the World Health Organisation that his medicine does not have a significant impact on mortality. Therefore, would you not be in favour of waiting for additional studies and examining the effectiveness of the medicine before purchasing additional doses? Finally, if its efficiency were proven, would you not be able to examine the slope of compulsory licences for the supply of the market? Secondly, you have also talked about the source research on which my colleague, Mr Beazley, has referred. 550010518C. We would like to draw your attention to the source research conducted on the patients of the eleven group practices of Medicine for the People, where useful lessons can be drawn. This shows that one-fifth of the infections, 21 percent, occur outside the home, and we are not talking about the family circle on the workplace. That is a figure that is more or less in line with that of France and Great Britain. So it turns out that the workplace is still one of the most important engines of the pandemic. The other places where people are infected are in decreasing order: education at 19.5%, the wider family circle at 17% and leisure activities at 16%. In these latter areas very far-reaching measures have been taken, but this is far less the case at company level. Would you not therefore call for even more stringent measures to be taken? The monitoring of the protection of workers has also been mentioned in this context. Secondly, in relation to the source research, you yourself mentioned that we should not expect too much of it, because the response is only about 50%. In the case of the group practice of Medicine for the People of this study, 517 covidpositive cases, there was a response or explanation in 93 percent of patients. I think that this also shows the added value of first-line source research, for which there are two reasons. Firstly, the relationship of trust between the general practitioner and the patient is greater, since they know each other, making it easier for the patient to speak than an anonymous interviewer. Secondly, there is also the time spent on it. The people in the call centers have 15 minutes per patient, which is sometimes not enough to exhaust everything. I would have liked to have heard your opinion on that. After all, it may be interesting to free up funds at federal level to support the first line in the contact investigation. Since this is a regional issue, as you yourself said, we need a national strategy. Each region now has its own methodology, which does not improve its effectiveness. My third question, which you, like colleagues Rigot and Fonck, have already discussed, concerns insufficient staff in hospitals. This problem is complex. One of the points is the attractiveness of the profession, in which wages naturally play an important role. Last summer, an agreement was concluded to raise wages for which EUR 500 million was foreseen. In the RIZIV budget proposal, however, we see that only EUR 250 million will be released in 2021. How is it that the entire budget of EUR 500 million is not used, but only half? For the staff, that's rather disappointing. Who exactly do these resources go to? If the reason is technical, can a solution be found through an advance? In one final point, on clinical labs, I refer to question No. 55010515 by my colleague Merckx. You have already discussed this point. In our question we specifically cited the case of Synlab, one of the largest labs active in our country. At the time when we are in serious trouble with the test system, Synlab set up a real test plant in Lille that processes a thousand tests a day, the results of which are available within 24 hours. Apparently that is purely for profit motives, because in France the health insurance seems to pay back 73 euros for a test, and our health insurance 46 euros. It's a problem that those private labs in the middle of a pandemic are just free to go. They're very big players, by the way. The Synlab group has an international turnover of 2 billion euros. So my question is: how do you see that? How do these private labs fit into national testing policies if they are out of control? What concrete steps can you take to ensure that they accept their responsibility to increase testing capacity in our country? So many questions the PVDA wanted to come back to.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u31	It's 4:45 p.m., Minister. I don't know how long you can stay with us? You've got a lot of questions, haven't you? I take it you've also received the questions mentioned in the chat? Can you stay until 7:00?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u32	Mr President, I must leave at least at 6 p.m. To be honest, sometimes I don't have a very good answer either. I apologize for that. I'm gonna do my best to give you the answers I can give. At 6 p.m. I really have to leave, but maybe I won't even need that much time, because I'm going to say a number of times that it's an interesting question but unfortunately I don't have an answer immediately. I'm gonna try to group the answers a little bit, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u33	Minister, I will give you half an hour to forty minutes so that Members can still replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u34	Absolutely. Colleagues, I will begin by reacting to your interventions on testing and strategies in this area. Various members spoke on this point, in particular Mr Bacquelaine, who rightly said that I had asked questions without giving any answers. He also asked other questions. The answers must first be given by scientists, doctors and specialists in microbiology, testing, etc. Secondly, on the basis of these opinions, an agreement must be reached between the various Belgian public authorities on the matter. I therefore do not wish to give an improvised answer to these questions. A ministerial conference will be held in the morning. I hope that we will then be in possession of the opinion of the Task Force, that we can validate it politically and that we can define a common strategy. So I ask you to show some patience. The issues are complex. Let me repeat that this is not just the validation of the tests themselves. The question arises here as to the extent to which these tests are reliable. If tests are less reliable or accurate than others, then the question arises as to in what context they are still useful. The first question therefore relates to the validation and usefulness of tests with varying degrees of accuracy. The second question relates to the recording of the result. If we are not able to record the results and organize connectivity between the record and the data banks in order to organize the tracing, that makes little sense. It is therefore necessary to set up a registration system, which is very complicated. Self testing (self testing), quick tests at the entrance of a nursing home or company, salivary tests are a good thing, if you know their validity. In addition, there is the issue of recording and the necessary connectivity between local records and national databases. Thirdly, there is the problem of capacity. Please don't underestimate that! If we say we're starting large-scale salivary tests, it's the same analytical capability we use for PCR tests. We'll have immediate traffic jams. I'm not saying these aren't promising leads. Yes, absolutely, but it must be organized in a coherent manner. If everyone at all levels embarks on all sorts of local, provincial or regional testing strategies, I assure you that within three weeks you will be asking me about the chaos and total inconsistency of the Belgian testing strategy. It's very predictable. If I'm right today, and everyone is going to take the time? - in two to three weeks, you will rightly question me about the total chaos that will appear. That's the dilemma! Now I agree with those who said that we had to go, that we needed a strategy. I therefore urged scientists to go quickly, to define this strategy and to determine how we need to organize recording, connectivity at the level of results, protocols, etc. I hope tomorrow we can move on. Does that mean that in the meantime, even if all things are not really place or quite organized, we can start experiments with antigen tests or even, if they are validated, with salivary tests? I'm not saying no. This does not mean that nothing can be done in the meantime, but there is still a need for an approach in a well-organised context. All the questions raised by Mr. Bacquelaine are relevant. [[He's right.]] I hope that we will have some of the answers on the basis of the Task Force's note tomorrow and that we can discuss them at the inter-ministerial conference. I cannot promise results because I still have to prepare this with my colleagues. I hope we can still take some steps forward in the next few days. The other term of the alternative is chaos. Therefore, if I act as you ask me now - by going all azimut - you will question me about chaos. In any case, people who ask questions are right: solutions must be found. In the same area, I was asked about trust in the capacity we are developing in the federal platform bis, i.e. the eight sites linked to academic centres and their partners. We promise to develop a massive testing capacity, especially in PCR tests. Some members asked me if the supply of reagents and technology would be guaranteed. Actually, I can't give you a full answer. In any case, I imagine that if the people in charge of these eight sites guarantee us an expansion path that can get another 50,000 tests, it is because they are thinking about what they need. It is true that traffic jams are forming in international markets. Therefore, if the virus continues to circulate as it currently does in Europe and the testing capacity increases everywhere, I cannot certify that there will be no shortage. We must remain aware of the problem. However, the promises - which are contractual in nature - are clear: the federal platform bis will, in combination with the other tools, lead to a capacity that will exceed 100,000 tests by the end of the year. I'd like to connect that with the feats that were made here about monster contracts that allow foreign labs to use analytical capacity. We were asked whether we had agreed to this and what we know about it. In all honesty, I don't have any information on a sample contract that would allow our analytical capacity to be used massively for other countries. However, I know that the company Eurofins uses our capacity for Dutch testing. I did not ask for any further information, and I will explain to you in a moment why I did not do so. There is no framework agreement on this matter or any official agreement between the Belgian and Dutch authorities. These are private labs operating in the European internal market. I would like to say two things that may seem somewhat contradictory at first sight, but you must include them both in the debate. There is a single European market where there is cross-border traffic with respect to analysis of testing languages in private laboratories. That is, of course, a matter of giving and taking because samples of Belgians are also being analysed in other countries. It is therefore simply a matter of cross-border traffic and we cannot unilaterally say that we do not want tests of residents of other countries to be analysed here. After all, tests of Belgians in other countries are also being analysed. In se, there is nothing wrong with that. I'll get to the other angle. You say that this is always about commercial operations because they are private labs and that, for example, it is possible to fall victim to the fact that France pays better than Belgium. So you say that purely commercial motives are difficult to control and can lead to a disruption of what one wants to achieve, in this case a high test capacity. That's right. In short, on the one hand there is the European internal market with cross-border traffic that we also benefit from. On the other hand, I am not a big fan of commercial mechanisms either. On the contrary. That is why it was wise for the previous government to build itself a massive federal testing platform that is in public hands and under public control. That was clever from the previous government, no matter what one might think of the previous government. We all have an idea about this from a party political point of view. It was clever in itself to build a public federal testing platform on a massive scale that is not a commercial lab. That does indeed allow us to hold a hold on what is happening. I'm afraid to predict what's going on in the reagents market. The concerns are reflected. That's right. We do not just intervene in the circulation of test languages in the European internal market, because that also benefits us. We do not agree on this either with the Netherlands or with other countries. But we have had the wisdom to focus on a public system, that federal platform, which is not commerce. If I may, ladies and gentlemen, I answer a little in the same spirit Mr Warmoes's question about the medicine Veklury. I can tell you more about that, but I'm afraid I'm gonna go over my time. He says I didn't answer all the questions about Veklury. I answered about the number of doses. I said there's been a negotiation with confidentiality through the FWC. You asked a question about compulsory licences at the time. I'll just read you the technical answer I got. The system of compulsory licences in the event of a public health crisis is governed by Article 38 of the WER. The Belgian legislation applies to the Belgian territory. This presupposes a decision adopted after consultation in a Council of Ministers. Among other things, sufficient production capacity must have been demonstrated by the applicant for the compulsory licence in Belgium for the specific product. If an application is submitted for Veklury, the legal procedure will be followed and the specific application will be examined in all its aspects. But, uh, I haven't received an application for a compulsory license yet. The European compulsory export licensing system is governed by Regulation 816/2006 and is provided for only for production in the territory of the European Union for export to developing countries. An introduction in Belgium would constitute an infringement of the patents in question. For the rest of this story, I refer to Mr Pierre-Yves Dermagne, my fellow Minister for Economy and Work. They asked me about the studies, whether I will work to ensure that all clinical studies are published and whether studies still need to be done. The answer to that is as follows. Since July 2014, European legislation requires each clinical trial to be registered in the European clinical trial register and a summary of the results to be completed within 12 months after the clinical trial has ended. In addition, this dossier, both by the European Medicines Agency and by the FAGG, is closely monitored by additional data on effectiveness and safety. I repeat what I just said. We can't order studies for this. We'll follow them, of course. There is indeed a system of registration there, which should lead to transparency. You said, and I share that view, that there are a lot of critical reservations about these intransparent procedures, European and Belgian. I have to live with what's going on right now, and I hope you'll understand. I cannot just break into existing procedures and legal frameworks. The government agreement contains a very critical passage on the future development of pharmaceutical policy and the problem of transparency and managed entry agreements. I propose that we return to that point in a further discussion. Mrs Gijbels, you have asked a lot of interesting questions, but unfortunately these are questions to which there is generally little answer. For example, you asked the following questions. What do we know about the profile of the deceased? What do we know about the impact of deferred care? You also asked the very important question when I think that an optimal testing strategy will be possible again. These are all good questions, but in general they are questions to which I have no answer. That could be because I don't have the data. For example, I don't have the profiles of the deceased in detail. I don't know the impact of the delayed care either. That's a decision that's being made now. So I'm sitting there with a bit of a lack of answer. The question of when we are going to find ourselves in a situation where a more optimal testing strategy can be developed is very relevant. Mrs Van Camp, you have also asked questions that are very relevant, but I do not immediately have an answer to them, namely about someone who has to sit at home as a care staff member in an outbreak. How exactly is that arranged? Mrs Van Camp, you also asked me if I really have grouped data showing what the cross-border transport of patients has been. For the answer to that question, I should give a whole order, which I can't do right now. The cross-border movement of patients via transports has been quite important. However, I do not have the exact data. I am still looking at the questions raised by the N-VA Group, but also by other Members, about oxygen. I think that Mrs Fonck and other Members have asked questions about oxygen cylinders, but these are questions that must first be asked to the politicians in the nursing and nursing homes who are responsible in the Communities. I have taken initiatives at the hospital level and there, of course, the supply of oxygen is very different from the bonbons. These are large tanks and the problem is, above all, to have the technology, the equipment from the beds, which allows an oxygen supply with sufficient flow, is the Optiflow. We've made an inventory, hospital by hospital, of supplies. We have asked them what they have at their disposal, if they want to remove patients who need Optiflow for oxygen from intensive care units and what we have to order in addition. Our estimate was that we need 200 units of Optiflow extra. They're ordered and I hope they start arriving in a few days. Then the logic is indeed to ensure a proper distribution of it across hospitals. So that's what we're doing. Mr Prévot, first of all a very specific but important question concerning the extra cost for patients during transport. The transport costs by ambulance are covered. The ambulance department is billing the hospital. The hospital recovers via the B4 section of the Financial Resources Budget. Car transport is completely covered, so there is no financial impact on the patient. The costs for air transport are also covered. They're billed to our FOD. The SPF pays for transport by helicopter. Hospitalisation costs are covered by health insurance. In the Belgian-German story, for example, this is covered by health insurance in Belgium and Germany, according to a classic scheme. If I'm not mistaken, there's no impact on patients. I think the PS group had questions about the barometer. I'll try to synthesize. What is the challenge or problem? What needs to be done now is, of course, to get out of the storm, from the tsunami in which we find ourselves, and first to stabilize the number of infections and hospitalizations, and then to reduce those numbers. An objective needs to be defined, for example in terms of impacts. We have a very high figure which I do not even know by heart today, but which amounts to more than 1,700 impacts. In Germany, the indicator they consider to be their target is an impact of less than 100. It's pretty far from the number we have. That's almost our figure divided by 20. We are studying this issue, and over the next few days I intend to invest many hours to discuss it with experts, Commissioner VOCID-19, etc. What is this objective? What would be a lasting situation, a security situation? Is it necessary, as the Germans say, to reduce traffic below a threshold defined by the incidence indicator of less than 100? Are we saying 120? Or 80? This is a first issue to be considered by scientists. The second question is: What must be done to achieve this? Maintain current measures, or after a while, loosen them a little? This question is related to the barometer. Are we able to follow a chronology of measurements and flexibilities that are defined by a barometer? Or do we have to hold on until we really find ourselves in a security situation? Those questions should be answered. The barometer must be reintegrated into our strategy on the basis of the answers to these questions. What is the safety objective? What do we want to do? What circulation of the virus is tenable? Is this an incidence rate of 100, 120 or 80 cases per 100,000 population? The Germans say 100. And, to get there from the situation we find ourselves in, what must be done? In this trajectory, the barometer can be an instrument but it is necessary to have a clear view of these fundamental issues in terms of strategy. The barometer was not really designed for a storm exit. That's the whole problem! So we have not forgotten the barometer, but perhaps this instrument needs to be rethought in this kind of strategy. The PS group also asked questions about staff. In particular, Mr Rigot asked me for updated figures for persons with disabilities. I do not have these data in my answers. However, it seems to me that I have briefly answered what should be done by those who have had contact at risk or who are infected. As far as solutions to staff shortages are concerned, a "labour force" task force is present in the Interministerial Conference. But we already know that part of the solution is to make existing staff more flexible, perhaps in a limited way over time, because the current rigidities are obviously linked to notions of quality. The initiative that will certainly also be debated in the House will therefore be an initiative that will, to some extent but perhaps temporarily, make the possibilities for labour engagement more flexible. Mr Rigot, I cannot give you any more answers, and I apologize for that. You have also asked a series of specific questions about the evolution of mental health and the role that temporary unemployment may currently play in the lives of people with mental disorders. These persons, who are currently in temporary unemployment, may be in a situation of incapacity for work or disability. These are important questions, but I do not have an answer because I do not have the figures. Mr Creyelman, animal hair salons must be closed. You asked a question about a takeaway dinner. What if an association wants to organize a dinner party? If we respect the rules of the catering industry, we can do so through a pick-up point. That's not illegal. If all the rules governing food safety, catering and distance rules are followed in the kitchen and at the pick-up point, that can be done in my interpretation. I don't think that's possible. For the questions about the self-tests, I refer to what I have said about testing in general. CovidCare@Home we need to develop. I'm afraid to say anything about that. That's what doctors have to give advice on first. Mrs Taquin, you had a few critical remarks, quite rightly, about the delay between the decision in principle on the revision of the testing priorities and the publicity surrounding this decision, and the clarification given with regard to firefighters, police forces, etc. as a priority body to continue preventive testing. I guess you're right and the deadlines were awkward. We are doing our best to be able to respond to all the problems, but the basic problem is that we are flooded with infections. You'll probably agree, Mrs. Taquin. Even with the best governance, in such situations, a few policy decisions are quickly made, and then there is a chain of practical questions. I guess you're right when you say I look so slow about the testing strategy. That's because I want some consistency. Normally, slowness is not exactly the characteristic of my working method or the working method of my colleagues at the moment. With regard to the figures, you said that I had mentioned more than 500 transports, and that in the meantime there would have already been 700. It is true that the number I mentioned dates back a few days. Maybe the current figure is more important. The pseudo codes W, if I am not mistaken, and I say so with caution, are applicable. On the subject of structures, I will again venture to respond, although I do not have a written answer. Who's asking? Typically, it is an initiative that comes from a hospital that needs an additional structure. This is relayed by the governor, because there is, for example, a request for support from the army. We're asking for the military to come and help. These are typically questions relayed through the governor to have intermediate structures. Applications are evaluated at the central level, including the Public Health FPS and the National Crisis Centre. These structures intervene to assess applications and then the applicants receive answers. When it comes to structures that must be (re)organised, and especially when, for example, the military intervenes, there is a procedure of escalation via the governor, there is a national evaluation by the Crisis Centre. That's how it works. Mrs Farih and others, I personally think you are right, but I am unable to come up with solutions immediately. I think you too are right, Mrs Jiroflée. There is no doubt that traffic across our borders is going wrong; things are not going as they should be. I will repeat your concerns about this to my colleagues. There was also a question from Mrs Farih whether we have a central overview of the staff that is out of order and what is the need of the hospitals for additional staff. I think the answer to that is no. We don't keep lists of hospital staff. Honestly, I think that to a large extent you should allow people to be organised or re-mobilized, such as pensioners from a particular hospital, bridge pensioners, people from training, to leave from hospitals with their own networks and databases of former staff, who are undergoing training, etc. Centralising at national level seems unnecessarily complex to me. Some things become centralized. You know that in Flanders, for example, the VDAB and Mrs Crevits are doing something, which is very useful. However, you also have to let things happen on a decentralised basis. Take the search for pensioners from a hospital, from bridge pensioners, from students: if we have to build national databases for this, I fear that we will be working for a long time. Mr de Caluwe has said a few good things to which I do not have a ready answer, but which I would like to take with me. The problem of the doctor's training is something I had not thought about. I didn't know it was taken care of by the dentists. I think the story of the blocked masks has long been settled and cleared. I will not repeat that explanation, which has already been in the press. You said something very heartfelt about anonymous alcoholics. I wrote it down. I do not have an answer immediately, but I do think there is a problem there. Mrs Jiroflée, you once again had good questions to which I had some difficulty in answering. You ask: if the FAGG thinks about the strategy for the COVID vaccine, will it involve itself in a European strategy? That should happen. I personally strongly advocate that we have European coherent strategies. I did not take part in meetings on this subject, neither in the FAGG nor elsewhere, but I assume that there is indeed that concern and that there is a European logic. It is, of course, a question of vaccines that are bought in common. In my view, the logic is that when one buys together, one also thinks together about the practical guidelines that follow. I believe that this is what you are saying, and it also makes sense to me. However, I have to look into it further. As far as the apps are concerned, it is absolutely right that this is partly a European issue. Mrs. Fonck, two things. It's kind of a rehearsal. I appreciate your insistence, but there's a little repetition in my answer too. As regards staff reinforcement, the White Blouse Fund is fully operational. If we find people, we can recruit them. The means are there. The revalorisation of wages, on the basis of the social agreement, will take time, because it is really a revision of the classification of functions, which is complicated. It takes time. Meanwhile, I'm aware that people are waiting for things. I'm not going to improvise, but I'm aware of it. Mrs Rohonyi, I may have already responded to your remarks about testing and oxygen cylinders. As far as ventilation is concerned, you are absolutely right. There are actually two aspects. There is an awareness-raising aspect, but there is also a purely economic aspect. Disaggregation, unfortunately, could be said, is a sector of the future. The ventilation sector really needs to be developed. There is a need to develop research and development of advanced technologies in terms of ventilation for audiences, offices. It happens that yesterday or the day before yesterday, I also mentioned this at the level of the federal government's kern, in the margins of another debate. I believe that we need to raise public awareness, but we also need to provide incentives and incentives for the development of this industry and these technologies. It is also an element of revival. There is a huge need for more efficient ventilation systems. I think that must really be part of the action. So you're absolutely right. The problem of isolation, too, ma'am... I don't know who asked that question anymore. It is true that we must work on this. Mr President, I think I have now answered most of the additional questions. I'm back on my feet about my time. I shall therefore perhaps give the floor to Members. I hope I've cleared something up after all. Unfortunately, there were a lot of questions for which my administration has not found the time to answer. I have received the questions back, but without any answer, also on points on which I myself am afraid to improvise. I'm asking for some change for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u35	There's still half an hour left. There's 16 of us. I suggest that each member gets two minutes for the replies. Then it'll be 6:00.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for the additional explanations. The Federal Test Platform bis is indeed a public platform, which certainly has its advantages. But aren't we a bit committed to that, because that whole platform will run on the same equipment? If there are certain shortages of consumables, there is a risk there. In this respect, I would like to urge you to keep an overview of this and to help if there are problems there. The barometer is here, you say, but it won't be deployed now. I also understand that now is not the time. However, we must give the population a perspective when this barometer is to come. We must also quickly determine what the target figure we want to achieve is for us. I hear Germany has it. Then I wonder why we don't. We have such good biostatisticians and epidemiologists who can really say a lot of good things about that. On behalf of one of my colleagues, I would like to call for a very strong commitment to countering all kinds of pseudoscience, anti-vax movements and conspiracy theories that are taking place. They are beginning to form a very large group which is also strengthening itself on the social media. I really want to call for a team to be set up there to systematically refute all their arguments. Those arguments often seem very logical when you're not quite at home in that science. A lot of technical questions come back here each time. It's actually very often about getting figures and the state of play. The N-VA Group has a proposal. For example, an overview of figures could be provided every two weeks. In this way we can delete a whole range of our questions, and we can go much deeper into the matter. I hope that the other groups will support us in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u37	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you in particular for your honesty. It is good that you acknowledge that you have not yet managed to answer all our questions. I had, for example, tabled a question at the beginning of October about the care staff who are at home without wages or unemployment benefits. Maybe it's possible to look into that case. Care workers who work very often in departments where COOVID-19 breaks out are at home and do not receive any pay or fall back on technical unemployment. I had outlined in my question the limitations they are facing. It is important that we support our care staff as best we can. These are questions that I get from the field, so I hope you will pay the necessary attention and provide solutions. Also as regards the transfer of patients, there have been reports from the field that there are real problems. For example, if Walloon patients are received in Flemish hospitals, there is a language barrier. People need interpreters on the ground so that they can provide good care. I hope you can see that. Finally, you now know our opinion on the remuneration for sampling by home nurses. You didn't rule that out, which I think is a good thing. I hope that you will work on a full nomenclature so that the neutral self-employed home nurse can also do those samples. We have been in crisis for eight months now, so this seems to me to be something that can be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u38	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answers. As far as the testing strategy is concerned, I think you're hiding a little behind the chaos. I think we can do better and we can react faster. As I said, the opinion of the RAG dates from the drafting of the rapid tests of 19 August, two and a half months ago. We have really had the opportunity to do so. You say you don't want to end up in chaos. I understand that, but you can also proceed in stages, for example the hospitals. They have the tests and the ability to register, so they can work with them tomorrow. I really hope that the task force will decide tomorrow that it will be able to work effectively. In a second phase, the general practitioners and pharmacists have those registration possibilities through the GFD and the GMD and also through the multisectoral dossier. All this can be done in a fairly simple way. I have another question about the private initiatives. I understand that you are taking a legislative initiative that would ban private testing initiatives. Is that right? You're shaking no. Then I'm glad, because I think we should go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u39	I'm not aware that I have that intention. Perhaps my colleagues are preparing me to make that intention, but I am certainly not aware of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u40	It's all hands on deck, though. We must be able to test as much as possible. You also did not answer my question as to whether there was any contact between your services and the Dutch Health Minister about the testing capacity used in Eurofins' private laboratories. Have any agreements been made on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u41	No. I am quite clear on this: no, no, no. That dates back to Mr. De Backer's time. Mr De Backer has confirmed that no agreement has been reached on this at all. That's private. That's commercial. That is the internal European market.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u42	Minister, I strongly advise you to contact Mr De Backer again, because my information is completely different and it comes directly from the Netherlands. Maybe you could check that again? I do not want to put anything in your mouth, but we have heard that agreements have been made effectively. As far as the supply of oxygen is concerned, oxygen is supplied by the pharmacy to residential care centres. It runs through the FAGG. So it turns out to be a federal jurisdiction. Perhaps you could check whether enough oxygen bottles can be delivered to our pharmacies. I would also very much like to know if the flu vaccines will come. They are scheduled for November 5th, from France. I have heard from the wholesaler that there is not much progress, that there is no progress. Can we be sure that a million flu vaccines will be delivered to Belgian pharmacies? As far as the European vaccine strategy is concerned, I would very much like someone from our country to sit at the table if we go along with the risk-grouping strategy and that we will not be represented by anyone else, as we did in the negotiations on the covid vaccine itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u43	Mrs. H annoyance tells us that she has a technical problem. If this is resolved, I will give him the floor again. Mr Rigot, I don't know if Waremme is in another time zone, but you're apparently already in the dark.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u44	That's right, Mr. President. We're saving energy. Minister, thank you for the great effort you have made. It is not obvious to juggle with all these questions and to respond so quickly to our expectations. I would say to you that, overall, our group is satisfied with the answers you gave us. I will make a few further clarifications. I agree with Mrs Gijbels on the need for a barometer because it is a tool that gives prospects. As you indicate, it is indeed easier to have a barometer when you are calm rather than in the middle of a storm, this barometer specifying how to operate from point 0 to point 4. Nevertheless, citizens need membership. Today, they're breaking up. Some people no longer want to move forward in accordance with the rules. At least we should be able to tell them what the target of 15 December 2020 is, what the target is to be in order to loosen the flange. This will make them want to move forward more voluntarily than it is – and I share the need for fully justified measures – where they once again feel deprived of their liberty. What do they have to do to get it back? It's applying the rules. And when can we consider them to have done so? What do we hope for on December 15, 2020? As far as the figures are concerned, I fully understand that you have not been able to provide me with all the figures. If of adventure, you could ask your teams to communicate them to me in writing in the future, it would be perfect. Otherwise, I will re-examine you in writing. Don't worry! I find this quite normal. I should have put these questions in writing myself. My group and I are obviously delighted to hear that we will be debating a bill on Thursday to ensure more flexibility in the involvement of staff in hospitals. This is where the emphasis must be put, immediately. We are therefore looking forward to discussing this bill next Thursday, moving forward on prospects for engagement and expansion of tasks, and going to staff bedside. Finally, as far as the undocumented are concerned, I confess that I did not get the answers I hoped for. I understand, however, that this is a matter for your colleague, Mr Sammy Mahdi, who is responsible for migration. I will therefore not fail to question him. Minister, I wish you all the best. Good job and thank you!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u45	Mr President, I had no further comment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u46	Mr President, I thank the Minister for this difficult exercise and I wish him great courage and self-denial for the days, weeks and months to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for the clear answers to the two unexpected questions. You have given us an answer, and a lot of people will be satisfied with it. You have not answered a few questions, such as those concerning cybersecurity, certain aspects of the rapid tests and the diagnostic hierarchy. I will retable them because they may be easier to answer in writing. To conclude, I would like to congratulate you on being a member of the select club that has pronounced my family name well from the first time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u48	I hope, Mr Creyelman, that I am one of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u49	Minister, I have another question about the letter from the European Commission concerning the vaccination strategy to which you referred. You will still be sitting with the task force in connection with that strategy. I suggest we read that letter very carefully so that we don't run behind again. For example, there must be sufficient storage for these vaccines which must be properly stored, some even in the freezer. I therefore hope that you will take this letter to heart and take the recommendations with you to your task force. You say that we should continue to develop COOVID care at home, with advice from doctors and people from the field. However, if I am not mistaken, this has already been implemented at the Limburg and Antwerp hospitals. One can now evaluate that test phase to further roll out the system in other hospitals. That was the subject of my question which you did not really answer. As for the self-tests, they were banned by the government in March. In the meantime, however, the technique has not stopped and the rapid tests, which were not reliable at first, can now be included in the test strategy. I believe that the self-tests have also experienced a technological evolution which makes them more reliable now than in March. I therefore propose that these self-tests be taken seriously and that they be submitted to the experts. Maybe they can be included in the test strategy, so we can test even more while the labs are being slightly relieved. They can then provide a first triage. For the rest, most of my questions have been answered, for which I thank you, of course. Have a nice evening.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u50	Minister, I can imagine that your task is not simple. Nor is ours, especially at the local level, when we, as mayors, have to put in place measures whose texts are published a few hours before they come into force, and when the FAQs and generic guides are received long after the texts come into force. This does not help understanding and communicating with the public and public services. But we are obviously facing you in this crisis. With regard to testing and antigen testing, I understand that there is a need for consistency and patience, but that does not prevent us from preparing. Are we not likely to face a shortage, when the other countries will have made their orders long before us? At this level, can you tell us if a preparation is under way? We have no information on the number of antigenic tests already ordered by our country. What legislation does it take to work with official pharmacists? Have you received a note from the Task Force on this matter? This could expand capacity without affecting laboratory capacity, thanks to the 5,000 official pharmacies. As far as reception facilities are concerned, can you check the list of structures that had been proposed? Local authorities have shown themselves by proposing certain structures, and would like to have a response, whether they are retained or not. For example, we have a sports hall on the entity of Courcelles that is in stand-by at the moment. We would like to know whether this structure, for example, can be useful or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I did ask whether there was a national data platform for the staff breakdown. It is certainly not the intention of the government to take over the personnel policy and to involve people where necessary. That is indeed a mission of the hospitals, but I do think it is interesting for the government to know which hospitals had the most problems during the corona crisis. Measuring is knowing. These data may be useful for a possible assessment of the long-term crisis. That's why I asked if those data were kept at national level. Thank you also very much for raising the conditions for people who wish to enter and leave the country in the ministerial meeting. I think this is an important aspect on which we can make a stronger commitment. That could also make for quick profit. You have not yet given a detailed answer to the questions about the medicines and the test material, but you say that the market is fairly stable and that we are sufficiently organized for our COOVID-19 patients. If you could confirm that, I would be delighted. In any case, I thank you for your commitment and your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for the additional answers you have given. I know it's not obvious to answer 170 questions. I'm satisfied. I am also pleased that you take into account the concerns I have given you. I'm definitely looking forward to the sequel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u53	Minister, I have no further questions. In a few weeks' time, we will have new questions which you will be able to address. In any case, I would like to thank you very much for the effort you have made in the meantime. I thank you and wish you much courage.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u54	Mrs. Fonck's gone. If she comes back, we'll give her the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u55	Minister, thank you for your further answers. I will add two small considerations about quick tests. I can understand that the problem is not only with the validation of the tests, but also with the recording of the results. Thinking with experts is therefore necessary, but do you also include pharmacists? Indeed, half of them are seeking to be able to carry out these tests. It is therefore important to include them in strategic meetings. I think, in any case, of those who can do so in their office, taking into account the place and sufficient staff. They may also suggest exploring leads in data recording. In addition, can you provide us with the schedule of your work? It seems to me essential to be ready by 15 December at the latest. We can no longer afford to leave a containment, as in June, without fully effective testing and tracing tools. As far as ventilation is concerned, I am pleased that you recognize its usefulness. I hope that tomorrow at the Interdepartmental Conference, your counterparts will also admit it. The media are talking about it, but it is important that the council comes from above and, therefore, from the authorities. We must therefore include ventilation among the barrier gestures. I hope that a decision will be taken in this direction tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u56	Mr Minister, on behalf of PVDA, I thank you for your answers. We see in you openness and willingness to listen, what we can appreciate. I found your answer to our question about the private labs interesting. You conclude somewhere from the fact that the market is failing, you need to set up a massive public testing platform that you are working on. Of course, we fully support that it is a public matter, so that you have things in your hands. On the other hand, however, we cannot agree with the fact that you allow the private laboratories to do so. For the sake of clarity, we are not opposed to the European market or to European rules. If a company wants to set up a laboratory in France or abroad, it is not a problem in itself. However, it shows that the companies are perfectly capable of increasing the test capacity. We ask many of our citizens, we ask them to be responsible. Well, in our opinion, companies also have social responsibility, all the more so since they also make a profit with the covid tests. So what steps can you take and what possibilities do you have to force companies to cooperate better to increase testing capacity in our country? We'll write down your answer on Veklury. You can certainly count on our cooperation to increase transparency in such cases and to reduce the price of medicines, which are certainly, in some cases, unacceptablely high. We really need to break those prices. We understand that time is needed for care workers to be able to count on a proper wage for the work they do, and therefore on a wage premium, especially if, as we prefer, this happens after social consultation. But in view of the special circumstances, can urgent measures not be taken today? In this way, the care staff will receive a little more money in their accounts and it will feel the social appreciation with more than just a hand clapping. Finally, you did not answer the question about the source research. So let me repeat our question as to whether it is possible to strengthen the first line and make funds available for that purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-03-55-commissie-ic297x.u57	First of all, this has already been said and the minister is leading the way, but he is not the only one, translators encounter real difficulties when you don't have a headset. We're at the end of the session, but there will be more. It is really important that everyone make the effort to have a headset because the sound quality is much better. If you are not equipped, translation cannot be ensured. I will meet the members of the committee on Thursday at 2.15 p.m. for a plenary session followed by a committee meeting, this time with physical presence since the video conferencing system is in maintenance. We'll be working in the Chamber. Finally, Minister, I would like to give you an appointment next week, Tuesday, for your orientation briefing. I would like to thank you for having delivered your policy statement to us informally. That allows us to make the necessary time to work on it seriously. I'm sure we appreciate you keeping your word there. The next topical debate on COOVID-19 is scheduled for Friday 13 November at 9.30 a.m. I hope that's not an unfortunate day. I thank all Members for their presence and participation.
